Records of burials, correspondence, treasurers records, and other information about Newberg Friends Cemetery.
Written memorials for passed members of the Northwest Yearly Meeting and Oregon Yearly Meeting from 1889-2003.
George Fox College, Newberg, Oregon, was originally established in 1891 as Pacific College and is now known as George Fox University. This collection comprises a variety of documentation including correspondence, minutes, financial documents, planning materials, publications, photographs and other media.
The collection consists of one photograph album documenting Pacific College, Newberg, Oregon, from 1922 to 1925.
The collection consists of one scrapbook documenting Pacific College, Newberg, Oregon from 1932 to 1933.
Oregon Yearly Meeting of Friends Church was established in 1891 at Newberg, Oregon. In 1974 the name was changed to Northwest Yearly Meeting of Friends Church. The collection consists of membership records, minutes, correspondence, publications, sermons, reports, and materials relating to associated organizations.
This collection contains records on the early founding of Quaker Cover including minutes, brochures, and the articles of incorporation.
Faculty personell records.
Associated Student Community records including minutes, correspondence, etc.
Records from the Northwest Yearly Meeting of Friends including friends fund, commission on media, board minutes, and executive council minutes.
Correspondence of the Weesner family of Newberg, Oregon.
This collection mostly follows the later life of Levi Talbot Pennington. The materials that this collection includes are letters, poems, photographs, diaries, and personal notes. These materials ultimately provide insight into aspects of Pennington's life, such as his time as president of Pacific College and his Quaker religion. This collection is useful for those who want to want to learn more about the Quaker religion and the history and culture of Pacific College, which is now known as George Fox University.
Nathan B. Pierson, a Friends pastor in several states from the 1940s through the 1970s, donated this collection of marriage licenses, funeral services and obituaries, and Quaker pamphlets. The certificates and funerals are documents from the various locations where he and his wife Hazel ministered.
Records from the administrative offices of the Northwest Yearly Meeting of Friends. Includes records of peacemaking conferences and teaching, Friends Religious and Literary Journal, Family Ministry, Quarterly Meeting Records, Friends Youth Organization record, and minutes from the administrative actions of the Northwest Yearly Meeting, and slides from the Boise Valley Area Meeting, Newberg, and other parts of Oregon.
George Fox College (GFC), Newberg, Oregon, was originally established in 1891 as Pacific College. Public and press confusion with other colleges prompted the name change in 1949. George Fox College was chosen to reflect historic and religious ties to the founder of the Friends (Quaker) Church since the college has strong ties to that body. In 1995, with the acquisition of Western Evangelical Seminary in Portland, the name of the college was changed to George Fox University.
 After World War II the Board of Trustees and administration took steps to implement strategic plans that enlarged facilities, salaries, and improved academic offerings. As the curriculum developed, the education, fine arts, and engineering majors attracted a larger student body.
During the 1970s and 1980s a Peace Learning Center, Tilikum retreat center, English Language Institute, all at the Newberg campus, and an extension center in Kotzebue, Alaska, were established. A degree-completion program for adults began in 1986 and remote campus locations were added in several Oregon cities and in Boise, Idaho. In 1989 the college acquired an established clinical psychology program from Western Conservative Baptist Seminary in Portland. Plans for master’s programs in education, business management, and Christian studies began at this time. While the main emphasis had been on academics, GFC also participated in collegiate sports throughout its history.
Mildred Tucker Farmer attended Pacific College, Newberg, Oregon, from 1922 to 1925.
Della L. Hanville graduated from Pacific College, Newberg, Oregon, in 1933.
Oregon Yearly Meeting of Friends Church (OYM) was established in 1891 at Newberg, Oregon. In 1974 the name was changed to Northwest Yearly Meeting of Friends Church (NWYM) to reflect the congregations of Idaho, Oregon, and Washington states. Friends (Quakers) first arrived in Oregon in the mid-1800s, but it was not until 1878 that application was made to officially recognize Chehalem Monthly Meeting. By 1891 several churches had been formed in Oregon and Washington, so application was again made and Oregon Yearly Meeting was formed. Idaho churches applied to OYM in 1906 for official recognition as a Quarterly Meeting located near Boise.
The first Yearly Meeting sessions provided for the organizational structure by establishing boards, committees, clerks, and delegates to oversee pastoral and church extension, foreign missions, education, publishing, peace and arbitration--all continuing Friends concerns. The <title altrender="italic">Discipline of Oregon Yearly Meeting of Friends Church</title> was approved in 1895 and 600 copies were printed. Today the 2009 document, <title altrender="italic">Faith and Practice: A Book of Christian Discipline</title>, unites Friends across the NWYM.
The peace testimony of Quakers has been emphasized by committee and member practice through relief work, independent pursuits, and in conjunction with other yearly meetings and national organizations.
Education has a traditional emphasis within NWYM. At the first Yearly Meeting session reports were given about the progress of three institutions already established by Oregon Quakers: Friends Pacific Academy (1885) and Pacific College (1891), both located in Newberg, and Friends Polytechnic Institute (1892), located in Salem. Greenleaf Academy, near Caldwell, Idaho, was established in 1908. At present Greenleaf Friends Academy still continues and George Fox University in Newberg maintains strong connections with NWYM. Camping was another focus on wellbeing promoted by early Friends that continues to the present. Five camp and recreational sites located throughout Idaho, Oregon and Washington are affiliated with NWYM, providing programs and facilities for members and other participants of all ages.
Levi Talbot Pennington lived from 1876 to 1975, from 1911 to 1941, he served as president of Pacific College, which later came to be known as George Fox University. Throughout his life, he was a follower of the Quaker tradition, which can easily be seen in most of the collection, particularly in regards to his poems, letters and personal notes. During his life, he was married twice, and authored several books, including three collecting his poetry and one reflecting on his life. When he passed away, he had just turned 99 years old. After his passing, Pennington was survived by his children, including daughter Mary Beth Pennington, his grandchildren, and his great-grandchildren.
Nathan Benbow Pierson pastored Friends churches in Kansas, Texas, Washington state, Idaho, and Oregon. He retired in 1975 to Friendsview Manor in Newberg, Oregon.
Records of burials, correspondence, treasurers records, and other information about Newberg Friends Cemetery. Also includes some information about the adjacent GAR cemetery, and Fernwood Pioneer Cemetery.
This collection contains written memorials and eulogies for members of the Northwest Yearly Meeting of Friends/Oregon Yearly Meeting from 1889-2003.
This collection comprises a variety of documentation from George Fox College, including Board of Trustees and presidential files, minutes, accreditation, annual reports, and correspondence. Financial files feature budgets, audits, and related matter. Program planning, strategic planning, major campaigns, grant preparations, <title altrender="italic">GFU Life</title> (journal), and events brochures for development are reflected as well as alumni items. Curriculum development and faculty materials encompass academic affairs in minutes, newsletters, and planning documents. Facets of student life including government, organizations, and athletics, are represented through manuals, newsletters, <title altrender="italic">L’Ami</title> yearbooks, <title altrender="italic">The Crescent</title> student newspaper, course catalogs, event planning resources, the <title altrender="italic">Bruin Directory</title>, and photographs. A media collection of video and audio tapes represent various aspects of the college life.
The collection consists of one volume of black and white photographs documenting the Pacific College campus, faculty and student activities. There is also a program for the play, "He and She," performed at the college on June 8, 1925.
The collection consists of one scrapbook containing black and white photographs, newspaper clippings, programs, and related items documenting the school's campus and student activities. There is also a 50th reunion schedule of events (May 30, 1980) and one issue of The Crescent (June 20, 1933).
This collection contains yearly meeting minutes; missionary correspondence; monthly publications, newsletters, pamphlets from Quaker youth groups and campgrounds. Sermons, annual reports from various committees reflect concerns of the entire entity and also include office files and financial records. Items from affiliated missions organizations also appear as well as biographical information for various pastors and church leaders. Materials related to individual congregations, such as written histories, membership records, directories, and bulletins are also included as well as scrapbooks, and photographic images and audio/visual materials in various formats.
This collection contains records on the early founding of Quaker Cover including minutes, brochures, and the articles of incorporation. Minutes are from the annual meetings of the Quaker Cove membership.
Contains notes on faculty of George Fox College including hiring and termination dates, experience, and classes/subjects taught.
This collection contains minutes, correspondence, memos, office procedures, training materials, walkabout planning, budgetary records and reports for the Associated Student Community (ASC).
Correspondence from the Weesner family primarily written from Pearl Weesner to Margaret Bundy, 1910-1936. Also includes Christmas, birthday, Valentines, and Easter cards. Of note are drawings and notes from the Weesner children to their grandmother and aunt. Correspondence tells of early family life in Newberg, Oregon.
This collection chronicles the majority of Levi Talbot Pennington's life, particularly his career as president at Pacific College (now known as George Fox University), the poetry he wrote, and his life as a Quaker. The collection has several sources that talk about Pennington's early life, and those were made near to and after his passing. The collection consists of letters, photographs, personal notes, poems, passports, diaries, sermons, newspaper articles, and general records. This collection is informative and useful for those who wish to learn more about the history of George Fox University and its culture, the values and teachings of the Quaker tradition, and the life of one of the presidents of George Fox University. With the knowledge available in this collection, people who view it will come to a deeper understanding of George Fox University and the Quaker tradition.
This collection of four folders focuses on three themes: marriage licenses “to be retained by the person performing the ceremony”; funeral services and obituaries, and Quaker pamphlets. Nathan Benbow Pierson’s pastoral ministry was in Kansas, Idaho, Washington, and Oregon. The certificates and funerals are documents from the various locations where he and his wife Hazel ministered. The retention of the Quaker documents illustrate his valuation of their teachings.
The Northwest Yearly Meeting of Friends was founded in 1893 based out of Newberg, Oregon. It includes Evangelical Quaker meetings in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho among it's Congregations. The main administrations, the Northwest Yearly Meeting Headquarters, based out of Newberg, is led by a Superintedent. These records contain information about the work of this administrative body and reports made to them by member meetings. It includes records of peacemaking conferences and teaching, Friends Religious and Literary Journal, Family Ministry, Quarterly Meeting Records, Friends Youth Organization record, and minutes from the administrative actions of the Northwest Yearly Meeting, and slides from the Boise Valley Area Meeting, Newberg, and other parts of Oregon.
Slides containing images of NWYM churches and events. Also containing two slideshows: Who are the Friends? What do Friends Believe?
