Desmond McCarthy was born in Cork, Ireland on December 2, 1936. He received a B.E. Electrical Engineering from National University of Ireland in 1958, followed by a PhD in Electrical Engineering from New York University in 1966 and an M.S. Economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1975. He subsequently spent time as a researcher at MIT prior to joining the World Bank. McCarthy joined the World Bank in June 1981. During his 18 years as a staff member and ten more as a consultant, McCarthy held various positions in the operational, policy, research, and evaluation units of the Bank. In 1981 McCarthy was an Economist in the Comparative Analysis and Projections Division of the Economic Analysis and Projects Department (EPDCA). The EPD was located in the Development Policy Vice Presidency (VPD), the Bank's research arm; it was transferred, along with most VPD functions, into the new Economics Research Staff (ERS) Vice Presidency in 1982. The EPD was primarily responsible for reviewing the Regional Vice Presidency's country economic analyses and programs and developing and operating macro-economic data systems related to national accounts, debt, capital flows, and trade. In 1983 McCarthy joined the Country Policy Department (CPD). CPD was located in the Bank's Operations Policy Vice Presidency (OP), although it had previously been located in the Development Policy Vice Presidency (VPD). CPD focused on country policy and strategy and was primarily responsible for improving country and economic sector work in Bank lending operations. In 1985 McCarthy entered the Bank's operations complex for the first time when he joined the Latin America and the Caribbean Vice Presidency (LCN) as a Senior Economist in the River Plate and Bolivia Division (LC2PB). He soon after moved into the Argentina Division (LC2AR) where he was the country economist for Argentina. Following the Bank-wide 1987 reorganization, McCarthy remained a Senior Economist in LCN but moved into the Country Operations Division of the Country Department responsible Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, and Panama (LC2CO). In 1988 McCarthy returned from the operations complex to the research arm of the Bank, called the Development Economics Vice Presidency after 1987. He would remain there until his retirement. His first position upon his return was in the newly established International Economics Department (IEC); the IEC had been created in the 1987 reorganization and had assumed some of the functions of the EPD. McCarthy was located in the International Economic Analysis and Prospects Division (IECAP) where he soon gained the title of Principal Research Economist. In 1992 McCarthy moved into the new Development Policy Group (DPG) as an Economic Adviser. The DPG had previously reported to the Senior Vice President of Operations (OPNSV) in the form of the Economics Advisory Staff; it had advised the office on matters related to Country Strategy Papers (CSPs) and adjustment loans. Upon the termination of the OPNSV in 1991, it was placed in the DECVP but maintained its prior responsibilities. Between 1993 and 1999 McCarthy served as Economic Adviser first to the DECVP and then to the Development Research Group (DECRG). McCarthy retired from the Bank in 1999 but served as a consultant for the Bank in a variety of capacities over the subsequent decade. Units in which he served include: DECVP; the Office of Operations Evaluation (OED); the Operations Policy and Strategy Vice Presidency (OPS); the Health, Nutrition, and Population Team in the Human Development Network (HDNHE); and the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). McCarthy's last consultancy with the World Bank ended in 2010.
An American national born in 1938, John Nellis received his B.A. (1960), M.A. (1964), and Ph.D. (1968) in Political Economy from the Maxwell School at Syracuse University. Prior to joining the World Bank, Nellis held teaching and research positions at a number of academic institutions, including the University of Nairobi (as a Fellow of the Institute for Development Studies), Carleton University (as professor of international affairs), and the Maxwell School at Syracuse University (as professor of Development Planning and Public Administration). He also served as the representative of the Ford Foundation in North Africa during which time he conducted research and administered aid programs. Nellis was employed by the World Bank between 1984 and 2000 during which time he dealt with a variety of development topics and sectors, including privatization, public enterprise reform, market transitioning, and governance and public-sector management issues. Upon joining the Bank in 1984, he was named Management Specialist in the Public Management Unit (PPDPS) of the Projects Policy Department (PPD). The PPDPS, then just a year old, was responsible for advising and developing strategies for improving the management of governments and government-controlled enterprises. As part of a 1987 Bank-wide reorganization, the PPD was terminated and the functions and staff of the PPDPS were transferred to the newly established Public Sector Management and Private Sector Development Division (CECPS) located in the Country Economics Department (CEC) of the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC). Nellis transitioned to CECPS, as well, and was soon after named Principal Management Specialist. CECPS specifically focused on private sector development activities such as assisting in the privatization of state-enterprises, performing private sector assessments, and improving the relations between the public and private sector through regulatory reform. A Bank-wide reorganization in 1993 resulted in the termination of CECPS. Much of its staff and functional responsibility was transferred to the Private Sector Department (PSD). Nellis was one of those transferred to PSD where he was made Manager and then, in 1994, Senior Manager. PSD did not contain internal divisions until 1997. At this point Nellis was named Senior Manager of the Department's Enterprise Group (PSDEN) which focused on country enterprise reform and privatization. His final position at the Bank was director of the PSD. Nellis officially left the Bank in 2000. Following his official departure from the Bank Nellis became a Principal in the research and consulting firm International Analytics. In this capacity he returned to the Bank regularly as a consultant in various regional and sectoral units. He also consulted for: the International Monetary Fund (IMF); the British Department for International Development; the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD; the Asian Development Bank; Transparency International; the Egyptian Centre for Economic Studies; the Government of Bolivia; the Government of Serbia; the Government of Tanzania; and the International Institute. He also served as a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Development (CGD).
Lester Nurick was born in New York City on December 2, 1914. He graduated from City College of New York in 1934 and later Brooklyn Law School in 1937. After graduation, Nurick practiced law at the firm of Evans, Rees, and Orr in New York City from 1938 to 1941. In 1941, Nurick moved to Washington D.C., and served in the position of Senior Attorney for the Public Utilities Division of the U.S. Government Securities and Exchange Commission from 1941 to 1943. In 1943, Nurick was drafted into the United States Army tank corps. He later joined the Judge Advocate General's Department Officer Candidate School (JAG OCS), and eventually served as the Chief of the International Law Branch from 1943 to 1946. In 1946, Nurick joined the legal department of the World Bank. He first served as Counsel from 1946 to 1968, and later as the Associate General Counsel from 1968 to 1979. From 1979 to 1980, he took over the roles of Vice President and General Counsel. In his time at the World Bank, Nurick helped establish the International Finance Corporation (IFC) in 1956, the International Development Association (IDA) in 1960, and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) in 1966. He specialized in the questions of privileges and immunities of international organizations, taxation and finance (Bond issuances), and staff compensation issues. Nurick retired from the World Bank in 1980, but continued to work as a legal consultant afterwards. After retiring from the World Bank, Nurick became a partner at the law firm Wilmer, Cutler, and Pickering. He also taught international law courses at George Washington University Law School, and served as guest lecturer at various law schools and universities. Nurick passed away on 9 October 2014 in Potomac, Maryland.
Orvis A. Schmidt was an economist who specialized in South American economics, with an emphasis on Brazil. He received his M.A. degree from the Department of Sociology and Economics of Tufts College in 1935 with a thesis titled "The examination of the international trade of Brazil, 1926-1934, with special reference to forces operating during boom and depression". He then enrolled as a Ph.D. candidate in economics at the University of Chicago with a proposed thesis on the history of Brazilian monetary policy, working under Jacob Viner. Despite a nearly completed draft, he did not finish the dissertation. In 1936 the United States Department of the Treasury hired Schmidt, and he was stationed in Brazil during 1937-1938. He then returned to the US and worked in the Treasury's international financial field, including six months as the acting director of the Division of Monetary Research, which became the Office of International Finance. According to an oral history interview with Schmidt, he attended some of the early inter-American financial conferences, particularly the First Meeting of the Ministers of Finance of the American Republics. During the Second World War he worked on foreign funds control and attended the Bretton Woods conference as the secretary to Commission III. Schmidt joined the World Bank in November of 1947, shortly after John J. McCloy became President. He initially served in the Loan Department as chief of its western European subdivision and then as the assistant to the loan director. In 1951 he became Assistant Director of the Western Hemisphere Department and in 1956 he became its Director. Described by William Bennett as one of the ablest people the Bank had, Schmidt became Special Adviser to the President in 1964. He died in November 1967 at the age of 55.
Sidney E. Chernick, a Canadian national, was employed by the World Bank from 1969 to 1990. Chernick graduated from the University of Manitoba and gained a Master's Degree from the University of Toronto and a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Prior to joining the Bank, Chernick was employed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in Paris, the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA) in Santiago, and, for five years, by the United Nations in New York. He also taught Economics at the University of Melbourne. Chernick began his employment at the World Bank as an economist in the Central America and Caribbean Department (CAC) in 1969. He was promoted to Senior Economist in 1970. In 1972 he joined the newly created Policy, Planning and Program Review Department; he would remain in the Department until its termination in 1982. (The Department had different acronyms over the years: EPR from 1972 to 1977 and PPR from 1977 to 1982. It was also referred to as PPPRD and PP&PR.) The basic functions of the PPPRD were to identify development policy issues, to prepare or coordinate analysis of alternative program and policies, and to supervise the presentation of policy papers at the appropriate level of management. It provided guidelines for analysis in economic reports and country programs and reviewed country programs before their submission to the President to ensure the quality of economic analysis, consistency with Bank development objectives, and consideration of alternative strategies. The PPPRD consisted of only two divisions during its existence: the Policy Planning Division (PPRPP) and the Program Review Division (PPRPR). Chernick was named Division Chief of the Program Review Division in or around September of 1973 and reported directly to PPPRD Director, Hahbub ul Haz. (Ul Haz and the PPPRD, in turn, reported to Hollis B. Chenery, Vice President of the Office of the Vice President Development Policy [DPS].) Chernick's division was responsible for: * Establishing guidelines for the content of Economic Reports and, in cooperation with the Programming and Budgeting Department, of Country Program Papers; * Managing the review of Economic Reports and Country Program Papers in close collaboration with the Regional Offices and the Programming and Budgeting Department with a view to evaluating alternative policy options for management; * Evaluating the annual and 5-year country economic work program of the Regional Offices; * Maintaining communication links between the DPS and the Regional Offices on issues of development strategy and Bank policy at the country or regional levels; * Analyzing selected economic development issues of Bank-wide relevance and ad hoc questions raised by management; and * Providing support for selected economic missions. In the spring of 1976, Chernick was named Senior Advisor in PPPRD and would serve in this capacity until the Bank's and PPPRD's reorganization in 1982. He would also serve as Acting Director at various times during the decade in which he was a PPPRD staff member. In February of 1982, Chernick was named Assistant Director of the newly-established Country Policy Department (CPD). The CPD replaced the PPPRD and assumed its functions and much of its staff (as well as staff from the former Development Economics Department [DED]). Chernick's main responsibilities in the CPD included: * Providing advice and support to the regions on designing assistance strategies and preparing CPPs, structural adjustment and other program lending, and carrying out policy dialogue with member countries; * Serving management through reviews of CPPs and country economic and sector work plans, through advice on lending allocation, and through work on operational policy issues; * Conducting applied research and preparing papers on such issues as trade strategies, resource mobilization, economic management, employment productivity and welfare; * Acting as a secretariat for the Operations Policy Sub-Committee of the Managing Committee. In June 1983, Chernick was named a Senior Advisor of CPD. In January of 1984, Chernick moved to the South Asia Country Programs Department (ASADR) under the title of Senior Economist. Chernick's activities involved: supporting the design and quality of economic and sector work by undertaking regional, country, and project analyses; and raising the capacity of the practitioners by providing guidance, organizing training courses and regional seminars, and participating actively in recruitment. On November 1, 1986, Chernick joined the Economic Development Institute (EDI, later the World Bank Institute [WBI]), the Bank's capacity development branch. Chernick was named the Advisor on Senior Policy Seminars in the Institute's Front Office. These seminars, beginning in the mid-1980s, offered short policy-related seminars to high-level government officials that would explore issues, alternatives, and likely implementation problems in bringing about policy improvements. Chernick remained in this position until he retired from the World Bank in 1990.
The operations function of the World Bank has, in one form or another, been organized by geographic region throughout the Bank's history. While the units responsible for World Bank lending and technical assistance have changed frequently in name and status since the Bank began operations in 1946, the Africa Region (AFR) has remained relatively constant. One exception is the permanent transfer of responsibility for Northern African countries (specifically, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, and Algeria) from AFR to the Middle East and North Africa Region (MNA) in 1968. Thus, from 1968 to the present the Bank's Africa Region consists exclusively of sub-Saharan African countries. Another exception was the separation of AFR into Eastern and Western African regions between 1968 and 1987. 1946 - 1952 Of the twenty-eight original International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD, also known as the World Bank) Articles of Agreement signatories, only three were African: South Africa, Ethiopia, and Egypt. While the Bank engaged with and, in a few instances, offered loans to non-member African countries over the next two decades, no other African countries joined the World Bank again until 1957 when the removal of colonial powers from the continent had begun. Upon the Bank's opening in 1946, operational lending was executed out of the Loan Department (LOD). The LOD was responsible for developing loan operation policy, receiving and investigating loan inquiries, presenting loan inquiries to Bank management forconsideration, and negotiating loans. The organizational structure of LOD fluctuated over its seven year history but was, for the majority of the time, organized geographically. The Bank's focus in these early years was on post-World War II reconstruction - particularly in Europe - and this is reflected by the initial divisional organization of the LOD. Of the seven original divisions, four dealt with Europe and two with the Western Hemisphere. One division was responsible for the two continents of Asia and Africa: the Asiatic-African Division. In 1948, the seven divisions were briefly consolidated into two (the European and United Kingdom Division and the Latin American, Asiatic and African Division). Then, in November of 1948, divisions were abolished altogether, as loans were assigned to loan officers on an ad hoc basis. In 1950, LOD was again divided into three geographical areas: Latin America Division; Asia and the Middle East Division; and European Division. Noticeably, the African region was not represented at this time. Parallel to the LOD was the Economic Department (ECD) which conducted sector analysis and research work. Between 1946 and 1952, the ECD was responsible for both functional and geographic analyses, i.e. general economic studies and country specific studies. ECD supported the LOD and its loan administration and advised member countries on their economic and sector development plans. The ECD also liaised with international organizations on economic research. It alsoprovided staff forBank staff missions from the Bank's DC headquarters to countries to conduct both economic and project-focused research. Like the LOD, the organization of the ECD reflected the Bank's focus on post-war Europe. The Department initially consisted of three area divisions (with Africa located in its "Development Areas Division" alongside Latin America, the Middle East, and South Asia) and an Economic Technology Division responsible for specialized sector studies. In August 1948 a new organizational structure featuring two area divisions was installed. Area Division I was responsible for Europe and Area Division II was divided into four sections of which Africa and the Middle East was one. In March 1950 another reorganization divided the Department into an advisory staff and an area staff, the latter consisting of three divisions of which Europe and Africa was one. While much of the Bank's initial attention was focused on post-war countries in Western Europe and the developing nations of South America, the Bank investigated possibilities for investment in Africa immediately upon beginning operations. The first mission to African countries occurred in March of 1950 when Vice President Robert Garner visited South Africa and Southern and Northern Rhodesia. That same month, the Bank sent a mission to Ethiopia to evaluate an application for funding. This six-week mission resulted in the first funding for an African country. Ethiopia received loans for two projects: [Loan 0031 Highway Project (01)](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P000659/highway-project-01?lang=en) included $5 million for rehabilitation and maintenance of road system and [Loan 0032 Development Bank Project](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P000658/development-bank-project-01?lang=en&tab=overview) included $2 million for a new development bank. World Bank loans for South Africa, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Southern Rhodesia followed in 1951 and 1952. 1952 - 1972 Largely due to an expansion in operations in less developed countries, a Bank-wide reorganization took effect in September of 1952. The new operational structure endured for the next twenty years. LOD staff were combined with the country-related staff from the ECD to form three distinct geographical Area Departments: Western Hemisphere (WHM); Europe, Africa and Australasia (EAA); and Asia and Middle East (AME). These units were primarily responsible for World Bank-member country relations. Functions included: loan policy and plan development; country development program appraisal and review; preparation of proposed loans; and country economic monitoring. There was no formal divisional structure within EAA. The Department was led by A. S. G. Hoar between 1952 and 1955. Sydney Raymond Cope became Department Director in June of 1955. All three Area Departments reported to Vice President Robert Garner from 1952 to 1956. After Garner became President of the new International Finance Corporation (IFC) in 1956, the Area Departments reported to J. Burke Knapp and William Iliff. As part of the1952 reorganization, the sector-oriented staff of the former ECD formed the Technical Operations Department (TOD) in the new Area Departments and was placed in charge of project appraisal and supervision. Specifically, the TOD was responsible for: the appraisal of proposed projects; advising Area Departments on proposed projects and assisting in negotiations; supervising approved projects and assisting borrowers in procurement efforts; and monitoring and reporting on member countries' sector economies. Bank operations in Africa continued to expand in subsequent years. In September 1953 the Bank's first General Survey Mission to an African country - Nigeria - was undertaken. In March 1955, funding for the first regional project in Africa was agreed upon. "Loan 0110 Railways and Harbours Project": http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P000620/railways-harbours-project?lang=en financed harbor improvement of multiple ports on the east coast of the continent as well as four railway lines in the region. In 1960, the position of Special Representative for Africa was announced. The position, initially held by Henry R. Labouisse but replaced soon after by Leonard Rist, was responsible for maintaining liaison with governments, keeping the Bank informed about developments in Africa and recommending approaches to be taken. As African countries began to achieve independence in the 1950s, the Bank enjoyed a dramatic increase in membership by African countries beginning in 1957. Between 1957, when there were still only two sub-Saharan members, and 1967, 32 African countries joined the World Bank. By 1962, this increase of member countries in Africa, together with the attendant increase in lending activities, necessitated the split of the EAA. Two new departments were created out of the former EAA: the Department of Operations - Europe (EUP) and the Department of Operations - Africa (AFR). Pierre L. Moussa was named department director of AFR. In the early 1960s, the Bank received requests from the governments of Nigeria and Sudan for a Bank-sponsored consortium focused on pledging amounts of aid that could be provided by donor members. The Bank and its aid-providing members recommended that a consultative group was the appropriate mechanism for coordinating external aid to each of the countries. The group would meet informally as particular needs arose and provide a forum in which members could discuss the assistance they were considering, and recipient countries could keep the other members informed about development plans, policies and projects. The Nigeria Consultative Group was formally established in April 1962 and the Sudan Consultative Group was convened on November 27, 1963. Most of the functions involved in the operation of a consultative group were already carried out by Bank department staff in its relations with countries, however they would perform these functions "more intensively or more frequently" when sponsoring groups. The operations of the groups varied according to its different circumstances but in most cases the Bank's responsibilities were, as defined in 1965: providing periodic, comprehensive reports on the country's development possibilities, problems, and performance as a basis for the consultative group's deliberations; analyzing the country's aid requirements and problematic debt commitments, and recommending types and terms of aid; assisting the recipient government to prepare or revise a development program or advise on problems in its implementation; assisting in identifying projects and other technical assistance and arranging for feasibility studies; and advising participants on which sectors and projects deserve priority for external funding. The role of the group's chairman, typically the Area or Country Director, encouraged dialogue at meetings and coordinated donor efforts to meet the country's financing needs. The department also drafted the minutes or summary of proceedings and the list of delegates of group meetings. These functions essentially remained unchanged through 1999. Resident country and regional missions were also established in Africa beginning in 1964. That year, the World Bank opened its first African Resident Mission office in Ethiopia. An office in Nairobi, Kenya followed in 1965. In 1965 a West African office in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, was opened; an East African office in Nairobi, Kenya, opened the following year. The principal function of these regional offices was to assist these new members with the identification and preparation of development projects. In 1965 the World Bank implemented a major reorganization of country groupings in its regional departments. AFR was not effected with the exception that northern African countries (including Egypt, Libya, Algeria, Tunisia, and Morocco) were moved into the Europe and Middle East Department (EME). Note that these countries have since remained in regional units responsible for Middle East countries. In 1965 the Department of Operations - Africa was also renamed the Africa Department (AFR). Abdel G. El Emary served as Department Director from 1965 to 1968. In October 1968, due to the increased volume of lending operations anticipated over the next several years, the World Bank executed a major reorganization of its regional departments. Due to the rapid increase in African member countries in the 1960s, AFR was divided into two separate departments: Eastern Africa Department (EAF) and Western Africa Department (WAF). The functions of the two units remained unchanged from their predecessor. Each new department was composed ofseveral divisions. EAF contained three divisions upon its creation and had increased to five by 1972. WAF contained five divisions during this period. EAF was led by Abdel G. El Emary from 1968 to 1970 and Michael L. Lejeune from 1970 to 1972. The Director of WAF was Roger Chaufournier from 1968 to 1972. 1972 - 1987 From the time he became World Bank president in 1968, President Robert McNamara led the Bank towards an increased focus on extreme poverty and an emphasis on the agricultural, rural, and transportation sectors. The agriculture sector had always been the primary focus of investment for the Bank in Africa, but in the 1970s this investment grew significantly. The types of agriculture, rural development, and transportation projects were also altered in terms of scope and scale. Whereas in the past many projects aimed to provide local and small-scale lending, in the 1970s lending began to support regional development projects, focusing on fertilizer use, the expansion of rural road networks, and agricultural research (often through the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research [CGIAR]). McNamara's vision for the Bank was manifested in a massive, Bank-wide reorganization completed in 1972. As part of the reorganization, the geographic organization of the Regional units was again altered. The seven departments that made up the Area Departments were elevated to five Regional Vice Presidencies (RVP). The organization of Africa into two separate units was maintained in the form of the Eastern Africa Vice Presidency (EAN) and the Western Africa Vice Presidency (WAN). All RVPs reported to the new Senior Vice President, Operations (SVPOP). A more significant aspect of the reorganization, however, was the integration of the former Technical Operations Department (renamed the Projects Division [PRJ] in 1965) with the new RVPs. The period between 1952 and 1972 had been characterized by frequent reorganizations of the geographically-based area units responsible for country liaison and loan policy and negotiation. However, the division of responsibility between these units and TOD/PRJ was maintained. But in 1972, in an attempt to more effectively fuse country knowledge and sectoral skills, the reorganization removed most of the Bank's operational project work from the Projects Department to the five new Regional Vice Presidencies. Staff from the former PRJ were distributed into the Regional Vice Presidencies and were organized into sector-oriented Project Departments and were known as Central Projects Staff. Thus, rather than one Projects Department that supported projects in countries on an ad hoc basis, each RVP would maintain its own projects staff. Each RVP was, in turn, given "line authority" to analyze, decide and act on country development operations. Each RVP was responsible for planning and executing IBRD/IDA development assistance programs subject to the overall framework of Bank policies, priorities, and operating procedures. The RVPs created regional plans and budgets, ensured the effective implementation of approved plans, created country economic and sector reports, and developed and implemented loan, credit, technical assistance, and other forms of development projects. The RVPs were also responsible for maintaining sound relations with governments of assigned countries and with aid organizations and donors involved in those countries. Upon the completion of the 1972 reorganization, EAN and WAN consisted of two Country Program Departments in addition to the new Projects Department. TheCountry Program Departments were staffed by country economists and loan officers whose primary responsibilities were: conducting area reviews of Bank activities and countries' economic and political developments; formulating country lending and economic and sector work programs and implementing country programs; and reviewing loan applications, negotiating loans, and administering loans. The Projects Department provided technical assistance and advice to members and borrowers on sectoral issues, countrypriorities, and project development from identification through implementation and review. It consisted of economists, financial analysts, and sector specialists, and was specifically responsible for: creating sector policies; assisting countries with the identification and preparation of projects; appraising potential projects and assisting the Country Program Departments in loan negotiation and credit agreements; and helping borrowers manage consultants and procurement. Both EAN and WAN's Project Departments were initially divided into four sector-based divisions: Agriculture; Education; Public Utilities; and Transportation. Over the next fifteen years, new divisions were created for sectors such as energy, water, telecommunications, industry, finance, and urban. Note that not all staff and operational responsibility was transferred from the former PRJ to the RVPs. Staff in sectors too small to decentralize to the five regions continued to provide a complete "operational package" of technical services to the regions. These units, such as the Population and Nutrition sector and Urban Projects sector, were known as Central Operating Projects Departments and were located in the newly formed Vice President, Central Projects (CPSVP) which, like the RVPs, reported to the SVPOP. In addition, those former PRJ units which had their operational functions dispersed to the RVPs still maintained a core staff in the CPSVP with responsibility for policy and advisory work only. Throughout the 1970s, Bank lending to Africaincreased, particularly in the agriculture and rural development sectors, but also in the urban development and industry sectors. However, by late in the decade many in the Bank and in member countries grew increasingly frustrated due to a lack of growth in many African countries. In 1979 the Bank's African governors asked for a special report describing the challenges of the region and the Bank's proposed solutions. In response the Bank published [Accelerated Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action](http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/1981/01/438047/accelerated-development-sub-saharan-africa-agenda-action) in August 1981. The report discussed factors that led to slow economic growth in Africa in the recent past, analyzed policy changes and program orientation needed to promote faster growth, and concluded with a set of recommendations to donors, including doubling aid to the continent and increased reliance on structural and sectoral adjustment lending. In order to achieve the increase in investment prescribed by the 1981 report, the Bank integrated alternative ways to raise and inject funds into the region. This involved a greater reliance on cofinancing to the point that, by the middle of the decade, more than half of Bank-financed projects in Africa included cofinancing. A Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa meeting was also convened in Paris in January 1985 where over a billion dollars was raised for the provision of fast-disbursing and untied (i.e procurement is not contingent upon the purchase of goods and services from the donor country) financing for the continent. In 1987 the Special Program of Assistance to Africa (SPA) was launched. Its objectives included: mobilizing resources and coordinating support for economic reforms in Africa; streamlining donor procedures; and monitoring adjustment programs for efficacy. Roger Chaufournier continued to serve as head of the new WAN following the 1972 reorganization and would do so until 1980. He was succeeded by A. David Knox, from1980 to 1984, and Wilfried A. Thalwitz, from 1984 to 1987. Bernard R. Bell was named the Regional Vice President of EAN in 1972. He was succeed by S. Shahid Husain, from 1974 to 1976, and Willi A. Wapenhans, from 1977 to 1984. In 1985, due to shifts in country memberships, EAN was renamed the Eastern and Southern Africa Vice Presidency (ESA). The division of African countries between WAN and the new ESA did not change. Edward V. K. Jaycox served as Vice President of ESA from 1985 until 1987. 1987 - 1996 While the composition of the Country Program Departments and Projects Department changed between 1972 and 1987 (most notably with a considerable increase in the number of Projects Department sector divisions), the organization and functions of the RVPs was consistent until 1987. In July of 1987, however, a Bank-wide reorganization under President Barber Conable altered the structure of the RVPs considerably. The changes were brought on by a desire to strengthen the Bank's country focus by making the Country Department the basic program and budget unit. The new Country Departments that replaced the Country Program Departments combined the macro-economic work of the former Country Program Departments and the sector work of the former Regional Projects Department. Each Country Department would consist of a Country Operations Division (COD) as well as multiple Sectoral Operations Divisions (SOD) made up of staff from the former Regional Projects Departments. The COD was composed of lead, country, and specialized economists as well as country officers and was responsible for: liaising with state governments and developing knowledge of issues in the country; preparing and supervising the country's aid strategy; and providing full responsibility for certain country-wide operations such as Structural Adjustment Loans and country economic work. SODs were responsible for overall sectoral strategy and for planning, programming and implementing development activities for the countries in their respective sectoral specialties; this would include the provision of full lending project management as well as lending and sector evaluation work. Not all staff was moved from each Region's Project Department into the Country Departments' SODs. Those remaining formed a new Regional Technical Department within each RVP. It was responsible for higher level knowledge collection, assessment, and dissemination. The Technical Department, which was organized into sector-focused divisions, was to stimulate innovation in operational work and undertake strategic thinking by providing advice, operational support, regional studies, staff training and the dissemination of materials to Bank staff, donors, and other institutions outside the Bank. The Department would continue to offer operational help in the form of task management, task support, and advice. They would also work closely with Policy, Planning and Research (PPR) staff in conducting regional studies and reviews and advising on sector policy and research priorities. A subsequent reorganization in 1993 strengthened the Country Departments' SODs through unit reorganization and a transfer of staff from the Regional Technical Departments to the SODs. The Technical Departments were greatly reduced in size and were restructured to reflect the emphasis on sectoral and thematic responsibilities of the SODs. The Technical Departments operational support function was consequently reduced. During the 1987 reorganization the number of RVPs was decreased from six to four. This involved the merger of the Eastern and Southern Africa Vice Presidency (ESA) and the Western Africa Vice Presidency (WAN) into a single Africa Vice Presidency (AFR). AFR initially contained six Country Departments and a single Technical Department. Another reorganization of the Bank's RVPs occurred in 1991 and involved the expansion of the four RVPs into six. However, AFR was not affected by the change. Edward V. K. Jaycox assumed the role of Vice President of AFR until 1996. Jean-Louis Sarbib replaced him in 1996. 1996 - 2014 In November 1996 the World Bank released [Taking Action to Reduce Poverty in Sub-Saharan Africa](http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/1997/11/693921/taking-action-reduce-poverty-sub-saharan-africa). The document reported on the Africa Region's Poverty Task Force. It also outlined specific actions that the Bank should take, suggesting an intensified emphasis on poverty reduction in Bank programming and lending, and the establishment of stronger partnerships for poverty reduction. Another reorganization in 1996-97 modified the changes made to the RVPs in 1987 and 1993. The RVP continued to be responsible for all aspects of country development assistance for its member countries, including: country assistance strategy; lending operations; technical assistance operations; and economic and sector work. However, the primary objective of the reorganization was to deepen the country focus and responsiveness to client needs. This was accomplished in a number of ways. The most striking changes concerned the new Country Management Units (CMUs) which replaced the former Country Departments. The CMUs were smaller than their predecessor (that is, each was responsible for a smaller number of countries) while their number correspondingly increased. The internal reorganization of AFR resulted in an increase from five Country Departments in May 1996 to sixteen CMUs in November of the same year. In addition, an increased decentralization of CMU staff and country directors from Bank headquarters in Washington to locations within client countries was undertaken. At the same time, a strengthening of authority with regard to strategy and budget was given to the country directors. The CMUs continued to be responsible for overall preparation and supervision of the country's assistance strategy, full lending project management, and evaluation of lending and sector work. During the reorganization, the former Technical Departments were changed into Sector or Technical Families. The role of the Technical Families, which consisted of sector and project economists and selected specialist staff, was to formulate knowledge on technical subjects and best practice and to suggest innovation through research and development. A Technical Families group was placed alongside a number of CMUs within each Regional Vice Presidency. As part of the 1996 reorganization, Edward V. K. Jaycox was replaced by two co-Vice Presidents for the Africa Region: Jean-Louis Sarbib and Callisto E. Madavo. This new arrangement effectively split the region into West Africa and Eastern and Southern Africa with one new VP responsible for each. This arrangement lasted until 2000, when Sarbib became the new Regional Vice President of Middle East and North Africa (MNA), leaving Madavo as the sole VP for AFR. Madavo was subsequently replaced by Gobind Nankani in 2004. Obiageli Ezekwesili was appointed to the position in 2007 and was replaced by Makhtar Diop in 2012. 2014 - Present In order to stimulate the sharing of knowledge and best practices across the Bank, President Jim Kim introduced a Bank-wide reorganization in 2014 that removed sector staff from the Regional Vice Presidencies and placed them in one of fourteen Global Practices (GPs) or five Cross-Cutting Solution Areas (CCSAs). The GPs are responsible for each of the major thematic areas that the Bank supports through projects, such as agriculture, water, and education. Each GP functions as a vertical pillar of technical expertise and is responsible for: defining the strategic direction and the World Bank's activity in their respective sector; developing and deploying expertise globally; delivering integrated solutions to client countries; and capturing and leveraging knowledge in their respective fields. The CCSAs, on the other hand, serve as horizontal pillars providing leadership in areas such as climate change, gender, and public-private partnerships and focusing on Bank-wide strategic goals and directions. After the 2014 reorganization, the Regional Vice Presidencies exclusive function became the overall client engagement. Specifically, each RVP: sets and drives regional strategic direction; offers development solutions to clients; agrees on work program and budget with GPs and recruits expert GP staff to meet client needs; manages corporate and other stakeholder relationships; and oversees country programs. Each RVP retained multiple Country Management Unit (CMUs) responsible for one or more countries. The CMU is the primary interface with the country and is responsible for ensuring global solutions areapplied to the local context. Specifically, the CMU: identifies client challenges and opportunities; sets country strategy and manages selectivity; develops work programs and provides solutions; manages client and stakeholder relationships; and manages the country office. The number of RVPs did not change as a result of the 2014 reorganization nor did the country make-up of each RVP. Makhtar Diop served as Vice President of the Africa Region throughout the reorganization.
The World Bank first began lending for education projects in fiscal year 1963 with an International Development Association (IDA) credit to Tunisia. The credit financed the extension of a teacher's training college and the construction and expansion of secondary and middle schools, including a new secondary school for girls. In October of 1963, a memorandum from the President on Proposed Bank/IDA Policies in the Field of Education was issued in which the basic policy on education projects was set forth. Initially, the objectives were to promote educational planning, build infrastructure, and attract additional capital investment from other donor agencies. 1963 - 1972 Functional responsibility for education-related activities was first articulated in the organizational structure of the World Bank in early 1963 with the creation of the Education Division in the new Department of Technical Operations. Ricardo Diez-Hochleitner was appointed chief of the Education Division that was charged with appraisal of educational projects submitted for financing, and for assisting countries to plan their educational investments along lines which will promote their economic development. The Technical Operations Department became the Projects Department (PRJ) on January 18, 1965, and was responsible for: the identification, appraisal and supervision of projects; policy formulation and research; and advice in support of the operational activities of the area departments. The Projects Department initially had five subordinate divisions: Agriculture Division (PRJAG); Public Utilities Division (PRJPU); Industry Division (PRJIN); Transportation Division (PRJTP); and Education Division (PRJED). On November 1, 1968, the Projects Department was terminated and the subordinate divisions were upgraded to the department level. The Education Department (EDP) was one of the newly created departments along with the Departments of Agriculture (AGP), Transportation (TRP), and Public Utilities (PBP). Duncan S. Ballantine was the department's director and served until 1977. Initially, EDP had two divisions: Education Division 1 (EDP1) and Education Division 2 (EDP2). In 1970, Education Division 3 (EDP3) was created. From 1968 until a Bank-wide reorganization in 1972, the individual Projects Departments reported to the Director of Projects (DRP), and were the primary Bank units responsible for the appraisal, negotiations, and supervision of operational project work in their respective sectors. The departments were specifically responsible for: * providing advice, conducting research, and monitoring developments in sector issues; * carrying out sector studies with the objective of identifying projects and determining priorities within sectors; * preparing policy papers outlining the basic principles and approaches of the Bank relating to project and sector work; * preparing guidelines and standards; * appraising proposed projects and supervising projects in execution; * assisting in the identification and preparation of projects; * providing operational support in the negotiation and administration of loans and credits; and * cooperating with other international agencies on programs of common interest. In 1971, the Bank issued the first formal statement on the priority for education lending in an [Education Sector Working Paper.](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/149071468338353096/education-sector-working-paper) 1972 - 1986 The Bank's massive reorganization in October 1972 attempted to more effectively fuse country knowledge with sector skills. Sectors with a sufficient number of experts and an established lending program, such as the Education Department, were largely decentralized. While maintaining a centralized core staff of department advisors, the majority of department staff were dispersed to regional project departments in newly established Regional Vice Presidencies. The remaining centralized staff made up the sector operating departments and performed advisory services for the Regions. They were responsible for improving and maintaining the quality of Bank lending and related operations through: formulating policies, methodology and guidelines; providing operational support and advice; and managing related programs of recruitment assistance, staff development and education. In the case of the decentralized sectors (Agriculture, Education, Public Utilities, Transportation and non-African Development Finance Companies), specialized personnel assigned to Central Projects Staff were loaned tothe Regions to work under the full operational control and direction of the appropriate regional Division Chief and mission leader for the duration of the assignment. The Education Department, as well as other sector operating departments, reported to the newly created Vice President, Central Projects (CPSVP). The Vice President, Central Projects, replaced the previous Director, Projects (DRP), and reported to the Senior Vice President, Operations (SVPOP). The 1974 [Sector Working Paper](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/868961468741007167/education) that focused on education was published in December 1974 and introduced a new policy direction that emphasized the urgency for increased financing to improve access of the rural and urban poor to education, making curricula relevant to rural needs, and promoting functional adult literacy. On July 1, 1977, the Education Department was assigned a new acronym (EDC) and a Training Unit (EDCTR) was established. On July1, 1983, three other units were created: Education Research Program (EDCRS); Education Operational Policy Program (EDCOP); and Education Project Related Training Program (EDCPT). In late 1977, an External Advisory Panel of international experts in education was appointed by President McNamara to review the status of education in the developing world including the Bank's education and training lending and projects and recommend areas for future action. The panel was chaired by David E. Bell of the Ford Foundation. A report containing conclusions and recommendations was issued in 1978. In 1979, the [Education Sector Policy Paper](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/366981468182955979/education-sector-policy) was released. It emphasized primary education as the foundation of educational development and called for: improved access of girls and rural children to basic education; a limitation of additional investments in secondary and higher education; enhanced instructional quality by providing cost-effective school inputs and teacher training; improving internal efficiency; mobilizing community resources and the mass media; and building local institutions. In fiscal year 1984, the sector adopted a plan to enhance Bank staff training and introduced four types of courses for sector staff centering on: introductory training for new staff; advanced training on project design and implementation; technical training; and cross-specialization, including education of non-educators. In July 1984, EDC was renamed the Education and Training Department (EDT). In February 1985, the subordinate units of EDT were given the status of divisions. This resulted in: Research Division (EDTRS); Education Policy Division (EDTEP); and Project Related Training Division (EDTPT). EDTPT was subsequently terminated on July 1, 1986, and EDTEP received a new acronym (EDTPD) on July 30, 1986. A major [policy paper on Sub-Saharan Africa](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/816101468009945118/education-in-sub-saharan-africa-policies-for-adjustment-revitalization-and-expansion) was released on January 27, 1988 titled "Education in Sub-Saharan Africa: Adjustment, Revitalization and Evaluation". The policy discussion brought together twenty-five donor governments and agencies in Paris to assist in developing strategies for educational reform in Africa. The paper identified common problems in educational development, provided comparative data and analytical toolsfor developing policies and procedures, and suggested specific policy directions by governments and donors. 1987 - 1996 On July 1, 1987, a Bank-wide reorganization resulted in the termination of almost all organizational units. The Vice Presidency, Sector Policy and Research (PRE), was established in May 1987, and reported to the Senior Vice President, Policy, Planning and Research (PPR). The PRE shed all responsibility for managing operational activities and focused completely on operational support, the formulation of Bank-wide sector policies, and overseeing the ex-post evaluation of Bank-wide sector work and lending. The PRE changed its acronym to PRS on January 1, 1990. At the time of its creation, the PRE had five departments reporting to it including the new Population and Human Resources Department (PHR). This Department integrated the functions of EDT and the Population, Health and Nutrition Department (PHN); it also assumed responsibility for activities related to 'strengthening the role of women in development.' The Department had four divisions: Education and Employment Division (PHREE); Population, Health and Nutrition Division (PHRHN); Women in Development (PHRWD); and Welfare and Human Resources Division (PHRWH). On July 1, 1992, a Population Policy and Advisory Service Group (PPAS) was established in the Front Office of the Department to increase attention to population work. The PHR was responsible for: * formulating policies and strategies for human resource development and women in development, and developing new initiatives and Bank products; * conducting supporting research, including the improvement of research capabilities in developing countries, and management of external research funded through the Research Support Budget; * improving methodology and identifying best practices; * performing ex-post evaluation of the Bank's human resources sector work; * providing operational support; * liaising with non-Bank organizations and professionals in the field; * developing householddata on living standards; and * assisting in the recruitment and training of staff. In 1991, the priority areas of education sector lending were: * improving the effectiveness and efficiency of primary education; * increasing the access of women and girls to education; * strengthening science and technology education; * improving the efficiency and flexibility of training systems; * strengthening the contributions of higher education and sciences and technology institutions to development; and * continuing support for project-related training and the development of sectoral training capacity. On December 1, 1991, President Lewis Preston's first reorganization abolished all Senior Vice-Presidencies. The new Sector and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (OSP) was created and adopted functions previously supervised by Senior Vice Presidents, including the PHR. On January 1, 1993, as part of a larger initiative to align the Bank's organization with the priority areas of its poverty reduction effort, the Sector and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (OSP) was terminated. On January 1, 1993, as part of a larger initiative to align the Bank's organization with the priority areas of its poverty reduction effort, the Sector and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (OSP) was terminated. All research activities were removed from the departments in the Central Vice Presidencies, including PHR, and were consolidated under the Chief Economist and Vice President for Development Economics (DECVP). The Policy Research Department (PRD) under DECVP became the principal research arm of the Bank including responsibility for education and employment sector research. OSP was replaced by three new thematic vice presidencies: Human Resources Development and Operations Policy (HRO), Finance and Private Sector Development (FPD), and Environmentally Sustainable Development (ESD). During the 1993 reorganization, the PHR was terminated and its functions were split between a new Education and Social Policy Department (ESP) and a Population, Health and Nutrition Department (PHN). Both of these departments were placed in the HRO vice presidency along with an Operations Policy Department (OPR). The OPR absorbed the functions of: the former Central Operations Department (COD); the International Economic Relations Division (OPRIE); and the UN Office in New York (OPRNY) transferred from the External Relations Department (EXT). On July 1, 1995, HRO became Human Capital Development and Operations Policy (HCO). At this time ESP was terminated; the education functions were moved into the new Human Development Department (HDD) which consisted of education as well as the previous Population, Health and Nutrition functions of PHN. The Social Policy function of ESP was moved into the new Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP). Among the major initiatives in the early 1990s was the World Conference on Education for All (WCEFA), an inter-agency initiative involving the Bank that began with a conference to focus on achieving universal basic education. The impetus for the conference was the United Nations General Assembly declaration of 1990 as International Literacy Year. WCEFA was held March 2-5, 1990, in Jomtien, Thailand and was co-hosted by the Bank. It brought together 155 governments, 33 intergovernmental bodies, and 125 nongovernmental organizations. Participants adopted the World Declaration on Education for All charter which outlined six goals designed to meet the learning needs of children, youth, and adults. A Framework for Action: Meeting Basic Learning Needs was also adopted. It outlined general priority actions for countries. At Jomtien, the Bank pledged to double its lending for education. WCEFA launched the international Education for All (EFA) program. 1996 - 2014 Beginning in September 1996 and into 1997, the thematic Vice Presidencies were reorganized to strike a better balance between country focus and sectoral excellence. The Human Development Network (HDN) was the first to be launched in the Bank-wide reorganization into networks to facilitate sharing of expertise and knowledge. Networks linked Bank-wide communities of staff working in the same field across organizational boundaries and with external partners. The networks formed a virtual overlay on the existing Bank organization, and were intended to link staff working in the same sectors throughout the Bank, whether the staff was located in the regions, in the Central Vice-Presidencies' Sector Departments, or other vice-presidencies. Each of the three thematic Central Vice-Presidencies was transformed into the central units, or anchors, of each network and consisted of the existing sector departments. On a Bank-wide basis, sector specialists were grouped into regional sector units or into central sector departments that worked with country departments in a matrix relationship. Staff from the central sector departments could become part of the Regional operational teams when their sectoral expertise was required. The work programs of Network staff focused on the following items. * Global knowledge - putting the best development knowledge in the hands of Bank task teams; ensuring that the knowledge base was accessible to external clients; and contributing to the growth of the knowledge base. * Enhanced skills - developing and providing content to training courses; establishing professional and technical standards for professional development. * Shared strategies - assisting regional and central units to develop a common sector agenda, and ensuring that skills are effectively deployed across the entire network. Network leadership assumed responsibility for global programs, sector strategy development and evaluation, strategic partnerships, and learning and dissemination. * Best teams and best practices - improving the Bank's flexibility and mobility by building stronger task teams and delivering higher quality products. * Institutional initiatives - providing substantial support for new Bank-wide initiatives, such as Social Development, Rural Development, Financial Sector, Anti-corruption, Human Resources, and Knowledge Partnerships. The result of the 1997 restructuring was four networks: the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Network (ESSD); the Finance, Private Sector Development, and Infrastructure Network (FPD); the Human Development Network (HDN); and the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PRM). Within the network, the Human Development Network Council was responsible for the overall management of HDN led by Chair, David de Ferranti (HDNVP), previously director of HDD. As part of this reorganization, the HDD was broken into three teams and placed in HDN. The teams included: Education Team (HDNED); Health, Nutrition, and Population Team (HDNHE); and the Social Protection Team (HDNSP). In 2002 an HIV/AIDS Global Program Team (HDNGA) was created and added to the HDN, led by Adviser Dr. Debrework Zewdie (later director). Also, as a result of the 1997 reorganization, sector boards were established within HDN and other sectors. Sector boards replaced the existing staffing groups and sector panels, but with expanded mandates to include achieving the network priorities. Each sector department had its own board, chaired by the sector director in the network anchor. The sector board was drawn from staff within the network, and was also comprised of representatives from the regions, non-regional functional departments (Development Economics and World Bank Institute), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The board was accountable to the network council and was supported by a secretariat. The role of the board was to set the strategy for the Bank's work in the sector, endorse business plans and budget, ensure the regions and anchor perspectives were in sync, and to oversee the outreach and partnerships for the sector, with the anchor staff often doing the day-to-day management and monitoring of global trust funds. Among the Education Team's key initiatives during this period was the establishment of the Education Advisory Service (ESA) in fiscalyear 1997 to help staff leverage knowledge and information. An education management system was launched to respond to requests for Bank teams to locate consultants, learn about project experiences, improve project design, and implement projects. Clients included field mission teams, countries, and partner institutions. Also, the 1999 [Education Sector Strategy](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/406991468178765170/education-sector-strategy) paper was issued. Thestrategy focused on taking stock of global changes and progress in educational development as well as priorities and programs to help countries progress toward international education goals and improve the quality of teaching and learning. The World Education Forum held in Dakar, Senegal in 2000 convened partners from government, UN agencies, the Bank, NGOs, and academia to determine the direction education was to take in the new millennium, both in their own countries and around the world. Ten years after Education for All (EFA), many countries were far from reaching the established goals. The commitment to achieve EFA by the year 2015 was affirmed at the Dakar forum. Bank President James D. Wolfensohn told the forum that no country with viable and sustainable plan for achieving EFA will be unable to implement it for lack of external resources. In 2002, the Bank, with its development partners, established the Education for All Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) to help low-income countries achieve free, universal basic education by 2015 pursuant to the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In 2011, the Education Sector Strategy 2020 "Learning for All" was launched. The strategy encouraged countries to invest in early childhood education to build foundational skills and lifelong learning, and to invest in efforts shown to improve learning. The EFA-FTI was also rebranded as the Global Partnership for Education and a Global Partnership for Education Fund (GPEF) was established as a Financial Intermediary Fund (FIF) to support its operations. The GPE secretariat was hosted by the Bank, within HDN. 2014 On July 1, 2014, a Bank-wide reorganization introduced by Bank President Jim Yong Kim restructured the Bank into fourteen Global Practices (GPs) and five Cross-Cutting Solution Areas (CCSAs). Sector staff from the Regional Vice Presidencies were removed and placed in the GPs or CCSAs. The GPs were responsible for each of the major thematic areas that the Bank supports through projects and functions as a vertical pillar of technical expertise. Responsibilities of the EDU GP include: * defining the strategic direction and the Bank's work in education with a view to supporting countries in ensuring improved education outcomes for all; * developing and deploying expertise globally; * delivering integrated solutions to client countries; * capturing and leveraging knowledge in education. The Education Team (HDNED) established from the 1997 reorganization now became Education Global Practice (EDU)reporting to the Human Development Practice Group Vice Presidency (GGHVP). Claudia Costin was appointed senior director and Amit Dar, director. The senior director continued to lead the sector board. Nine Education Global Practice managers reporting to the director were responsible for the following regions divided into: Latin America and Caribbean, (HLCED); Middle East (HMNED); Europe and Central Asia (HECED); Africa 1 (HAEE1); Africa 2 (HAWE2); Africa 3 (HAWE3); South Asia (HSAED); East Asia and Pacific (HEAED), and Global Engagement and Knowledge unit (HEDGE). Past directors or sector leaders are as follows: 1963 - 1964 Ricardo Diez-Hochleitner 1964 - 1977 Duncan S. Ballantine 1977 - 1978 Mats G. Hultin (acting) 1978 - 1987 Aklilu Habte 1987 - 1988 Wadi D. Haddad (senior adviser, Education under PHR director) 1989 - 1992 Adriaan M. Verspoor 1993 - 1994 Peter Russell Moock (manager, Education under ESP director) 1995 - 2000 Maris O'Rourke (senior adviser HDD then director HDNED 1997) 2000 - 2001 Bruno LaPorte and Marlaine Lockheed (acting) 2001 - 2008 Ruth Kagia 2009 - 2014 Elizabeth King 2014 - 2017 Claudia Costin
The Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Network (ESSD) was created in 1997 as part of President Wolfensohn's reorganization of the World Bank. The reorganization's objective was to strike a better balance between country focus and sectoral excellence. It was also motivated by recognition that the Bank's development programs were excessively driven by a culture of lending. The need to increase attention towards on client needs and the quality of results was addressed. To facilitate sharingof expertise and knowledge, the Bank established networks that linked Bank-wide communities of staff working in the same field across organizational boundaries and with external partners. The networks were intended to link staff working in the same sectors throughout the Bank, whether the staff member was located in the regional Vice Presidencies, sectoral departments, Independent Evaluation Group (IEG, formerly the Operations Evaluation Group [OED]), World Bank Institute (WBI), or Development Economics (DEC). The objectives and responsibilities of the networks were many: reduce fragmentation; increase information flow; set priorities; manage quality; run the information system; consolidate external partnerships; vet staff promotions; and disseminate best practices. The work programs of network staff focused on: * Global knowledge - putting the best development knowledge in the hands of Bank task teams; ensuring that the knowledge base was accessible to external clients; and contributing to the growth of the knowledge base. * Enhanced skills - developing and providing content to training courses; establishing professional and technical standards for professional development. * Shared strategies - assisting regional and central units to develop a common sector agenda, and ensuring that skills are effectively deployed across the entire network. Network leadership assumed responsibility for global programs, sector strategy development and evaluation, strategic partnerships, and learning and dissemination. * Best teams and best practices - improving the Bank's flexibility and mobility by building stronger task teams and delivering higher quality products. * Institutional initiatives - providing substantial support for new Bank-wide initiatives, such as social development, rural development, financial sector, anti-corruption, human resources, and knowledge partnerships. ESSD was one of the first of three networks to be created in 1997; the others were the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PREM) and the Human Development Network (HDN). Soon after, in 1997-98, the Private Sector and Infrastructure Network (PSI) was created. In 2000-01, the Operation Policy and Strategy Department became the Operations Policy and Country Services Network (OPCS). In 2003-04, the PSI became the Financial and Private Sector Development Network (FPSD). In 2007 ESSD was combined with Infrastructure to form the Sustainable Development Network (SDN). ESSD is organized in the same way as the other Bank networks. Each network is headed by a vice president and head of network. Under the vice president is a network council which that oversees the entire network. The council is composed of the top network managers from each Region and is responsible for setting the overall agenda for the network and for promoting effective deployment of skills across network units. It deliberates on issues relevant to the functions and objectives of the network - e.g., strategy; people; knowledge; quality/business process; and external partnerships. Each thematic network covers several related sectors of development. When the ESSD was created in 1997, it contained three sector departments: Environment Department (ENV); Rural Development Department (RDV); and Social Development Department (SDV). It also contained the Secretariat of the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). In 2002, RDV was renamed the Agriculture and Rural Development Department (ARD). Each sector department has its own board, with representatives drawn from the Regions as well as from the network itself. The sector boards are accountable to the network council and are supported by a secretariat.
Activities related to the environment sector were initiated in 1970 when President McNamara announced that he had created the post of environmental adviser. James Lee was named to the post and would remain in the position until his retirement from the Bank in 1987. The Office of Environmental Affairs (OEA) was subsequently formed and placed in the Projects Advisory Staff (PAS) of the Projects Staff, Vice Presidency. The Office's name would briefly change to the Office of Environmental and Health Affairs (OEHA) in or around 1977 and then, permanently, to the Office of Environmental and Scientific Affairs (OESA) in 1983 or 1984. Throughout the 1970s the OEA was provided with few staff or resources and little influence. While the majority of the Office's resources were directed towards reviews of Bank projects, its five stated objectives were to: * ensure that development projects did not 'unduly' harm the environment and social well-being of a country; * develop increased awareness of environmental problemsassociated with the development of developing countries; * marshal the necessary resources and expertise to study the problem; * encourage research and training in that area; and * improve information and technical cooperation among countries. Bank projects related to environmental protection, rehabilitation, or enhancement began in earnest in 1974. These included projects related to water pollution, forestry, soil conservation and anti-desertification, air pollution, wildlife, range-management, and solid waste disposal. However, guidance and advice was generally provided by departments within the Vice President, Central Projects (CPSVP). The OEA maintained its function as project reviewer. Its agenda did, however, extend into areas that were not specifically covered by other sectoral departments in the CPSVP such as health, resettlement, and the rights of indigenous peoples. The OEA would also provide guidance for project planning through training and publications. In 1974 it published a handbook entitled [Environmental, Health and Human Ecological Considerations in Economic Projects](http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/1974/05/1561208/environmental-health-human-ecologic-considerations-economic-development-projects) and in 1975 it produced Guidelines on Environmental Dimensions of Projects. In 1980 the OEA, together with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), released the Declaration of Environmental Policies and Procedures Relating to Economic Development. In 1984, the Bank introduced a new Operational Manual Statement and, for the first time, it set out [Bank guidelines](http://www-wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/1984/07/01/000009265_3960930072837/Rendered/PDF/multi_page.pdf) on the environmental review of projects. The OEA continued to exercise a small amount of power and influence throughout the early and mid-1980s. However, during the Bank-wide reorganization that took place in 1987, the Environment Department (ENV) was created within the Vice President, Sector Policy and Research (PRE). Kenneth Piddington was named its first director in 1988. The Department was placed on the same level as other sector departments. At the time of its establishment, the Department had three divisions: the Environmental Operations and Strategy Division (ENVOS), the Economics and Policy Division (ENVEP), and the Environmental Systems and Technology Division (ENVST). The Department's role was to formulate Bank-wide policy and strategy for the full range of environmental issues affecting development that arise from the exploitation of natural resources; at the time, this also included issues related to resettlement and migration. Specifically, its stated roles and responsibilities were to: * conduct an integrated program of research, policy analysis and operational support on environmental issues, and to formulate Bank policies to account for environmental issues in all of the Bank's sectors of operation; * enhance the Bank's intellectual leadership on environmental issues; * lead the development of new initiatives for the environment, and to contribute to the development of new, environmentally sound Bank policies and products; * define the Bank's objectives, policies and products in the sub-sector of forestry; * define the Bank's objectives and to improve its methodologies and practices with regard to environmental concerns; * manage and disseminate the results of the ex post evaluation of the environmental consequences of the Bank's policies and operations; * liaise with groups, agencies and senior professional leaders actively working on environmental issues; * participate in appropriate committees, including the sector policy working group and country strategy working group; * collaborate closely with other Policy, Planning and Research (PPR) Departments in formulating environmental policies for the Bank's operations; and * help recruit and train environmental specialists. The Environment Department, like the other sector Departments in the PRE, had no operational responsibilities. As part of the increased focus placed on environmental impact and review, four regional environment divisions (REDs) were established. The new offices in the four regional technical departments would each oversee one or two regions and would review all projects and oversee the implementation of environmental measures included in Bank-supported projects. The divisions were given 'sign-off authority' which meant that a project could not go forward for approval until it had been cleared by the RED division chief. In addition, REDs would work to identify new advances in resource management and help with institution-building through close contact with national environmental offices. In December, 1988, the ENVEP and ENVST Divisions of the Environment Department were replaced by the Environmental Policy Research Division (ENVPR) and a Special Environmental Program (ENVSE). Then, on September 1, 1990, the ENVOS was terminated and replaced by the Environmental Programs and Assessment Division (ENVAP). This reflected a reorientation of the work program away from ad hoc operational support, necessitated by the newness of the subject and the shortage of qualified operational staff, toward provision of guidelines based on thorough reviews of the Bank's environmental work. In particular, the new Division would focus on such crosscutting issues as environmental assessment of projects and integration of environmental factors into the country economic and sector programs. On December 1, 1991, President Lewis Preston's first reorganization abolished all Senior Vice-Presidencies. The new Sector and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (OSP) was created and adopted functions previously supervised by Senior Vice Presidents, including the Environment Department. In 1991, the Environment Department's Global Environment Unit (ENVGC), a unit to coordinate Bank-related activities of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (MLF), was created in the Department. The GEF was sponsored jointly by the World Bank, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the UNEP. Its purpose is to provide funds to developing countries for projects that contribute to the solution of global environmental problems. The Bank was initially assigned the chairmanship of the Facility and administered two trust funds - the Ozone Projects Trust Fund and the Global Environment Trust Fund - to be applied to several priority areas of global environmental problems, including: the reduction of CFC emissions to protect the ozone layer of the atmosphere; the reduction of greenhouse gases; improved management of tropical forests; and reducing pollution of international waters. Since July of 1991 the Bank has also served as one of four implementers of the MLF, the financial mechanism of the Montreal Protocol (MP). The ENVGC acts as the Bank's Montreal Protocol Operations Team and is responsible for coordinating efforts of other Bank staff and local partners to assist countries in meetingtheir obligations under the MP. When the GEF was established in April of 1991, it initially reported to the Senior Vice President, Policy, Research and External Affairs (PRESV); a GEF Administrator's Unit (ENVGE) was assigned to the Environment Department. After the December 1, 1991, reorganization and the termination of the PRESV, the Director of the Environment Department was designated Chairman of the GEF and the ENVGC was established. On January 1, 1993, the GEF Coordination Unit was upgraded to a division while maintaining its previous acronym. In 1994 the GEF was restructured and moved out of the World Bank. However, the Bank became the Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund and continues to provide administrative services out of the Environment Department. Throughout, the Bank served and continues to serve as a coordinating agency for Bank-implemented GEF and MP projects. As of 2012, the World Bank's GEF coordination activities are carried out by the Environment Department's GEF Coordination Team. Its responsibilities include: * management of the Bank's GEF corporate program; * institutional relations; * Bank - GEF project policies and procedures; * Outreach, knowledge management and external relations; * Budget management and finance; and * Monitoring and evaluation. Effective January 1, 1993, the Department was again restructured as part of a larger, Bank-wide reorganization of sector policy and support units. The larger reorganization involved the creation of three new thematic vice presidencies tosucceed the terminated OSP: Environmentally Sustainable Development (ESD); Human Resources Development and Operations Policy (HRO); and Finance and Private Sector Development (FPD). The Environment Department became one of the ESD's subordinate departments along with: the Agriculture and Natural Resources Department (AGR); the Transportation, Water and Urban Development Department (TWU); and the Secretariat of the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). Each sector department maintained the following functions: * prepare policies, guidelines, standards, handbooks and analytical tools relevant to the sector; * identify, codify and disseminate best practices and lessons of experience, and evaluate weaknesses; * provide advice to the Regions as needed; * monitor and track work in the sectors assigned in order to identify generic issues and identify, evaluate and influence trends and patterns; * perform surveys of experience and practice within the Bank and elsewhere, and developinnovative approaches; * participate in Bank-wide efforts to assess skill requirements, and to upgrade skills through recruitment, training, orientation, seminars, newsletters, etc.; * represent the Bank to external communities of interest; and * maintain an awareness of relevant external practices and viewpoints. Restructuring of the Environment Department included the termination of the ENVPR and ENVAP and transfer of their functions to the new Social Policy and Resettlement Division (ENVSP) and Land, Water and Natural Habitats Division (ENVLW), respectively. The new Pollution and Environmental Economics Division (ENVPE) was also established. Four years later, in 1997, the thematic Vice Presidencies were reorganized to strike a better balance between country focus and sectoral excellence. To facilitate sharing of expertise and knowledge, the Bank established networks that linked Bank-wide communities of staff working in the same field across organizational boundaries and with external partners. The networks formed a virtual overlay on the existing Bank organization, and were intended to link staff working in the same sectors throughout the Bank, whether the staff was located in the Regions, in the Central Vice-Presidencies' Sector Departments, or other Vice-Presidencies. Each of the three thematic Central Vice-Presidencies was transformed into the central units, or anchors, of each network and consisted of the existing sector departments. On a Bank-wide basis, sector specialists were grouped into regional sector units or into central sector departments which worked with country departments in a matrix relationship. Staff from the central sector departments could become part of the regional operational teams when their sectoral expertise was required. The work programs of Network staff focused on: * global knowledge - putting the best development knowledge in the hands of Bank task teams; ensuring that the knowledge base was accessible to external clients; and contributing to the growth of the knowledge base; * enhanced skills - developing and providing content to training courses; establishing professional and technical standards for professional development; * shared strategies - assisting regional and central units to develop a common sector agenda, and ensuring that skills are effectively deployed across the entire network. Network leadership assumed responsibility for global programs, sector strategy development and evaluation, strategic partnerships, and learning and dissemination; * best teams and best practices - improving the Bank's flexibility and mobility by building stronger task teams and delivering higher quality products; * institutional initiatives - providing substantial support for new Bank-wide initiatives, such as Social Development, Rural Development, Financial Sector, Anti-corruption, Human Resources, and Knowledge Partnerships. The result of the 1997 restructuring was four networks: the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Network (ESSD); the Finance, Private Sector Development, and Infrastructure Network (FPD); the Human Development Network (HDN); and the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PRM). The Environment Department retained its name and component parts and was situated within the ESSD. On January 1, 2007, the Energy Department was moved to the Sustainable Development Network (SDN). The SDN officially came into existence on July 1, 2006, and was operationally functional as of January 1, 2007. It was formed through the integration of ESSD and Infrastructure (INF). Along with the Environment Department, SDN includes the following units or departments: Agricultural and Rural Development Department (ARD); Concessional and Sub-National Finance (CSF); Finance, Economics and Urban Development (FEU); Sustainable Energy (SEG); Social Development (SDV); and Transport, Water, and Information and Communication Technologies (TWI).
The Finance and Private Sector Development Vice Presidency (FPD) was one of three Vice Presidencies created during President Lewis Preston's reorganization of January 1, 1993. Following the abolishment of all Senior Vice Presidencies on December 1, 1991, Preston initiated a larger reorganization in 1993 that aligned the Bank's organization with the priority areas of its poverty reduction effort. The result was three new thematic vice presidencies: FPD; Human Resources Development and Operations Policy (HRO); and Environmentally Sustainable Development (ESD). The vice presidencies were responsible for: * providing operational support to the Regions by participating in Sector Operations Division (SOD) task teams, undertaking specialized assignments for the Regions, providing ad hoc advice, distilling lessons of operational experience, disseminating best practices, and defining sector and operational policies; * assisting in identifying and addressing the Bank's skills mix and training needs; * providing information and intellectual support to interested parties outside the Bank; * liaising with the UN and other official and private organizations; and * delivering complete products to the country directors in the 'clustered' subsectors, where the small number of expert staff can most efficiently be located in the central Vice Presidency. At the time of its establishment, the FPD Vice Presidency had three departments: the Financial Sector Development Department (FSD); the Private Sector Development Department (PSD); and the Industry and Energy Department (IEN). FSD absorbed the functions and staff of the former Financial Policy and Systems Division of the Country Economics Department (CECFP) located in the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC). The PSD absorbed the functions and staff of the former Public Sector Management and Private Sector Development Division of the Country Economics Department (CECPS), which was also previously located in DEC. IEN was transferred from the Sector and Operations PolicyVice Presidency (OPS). FPD departments were responsible for the following functions: * preparing policies, guidelines, standards, handbooks and analytical tools relevant to the sector; * identifying, codifying and disseminating best practices and lessons of experience, and evaluating weaknesses; * providing advice to the Regions as needed; * monitoring and tracking work in the sectors assigned in order to identify generic issues and identify, evaluate and influence trends and patterns; * performing surveys of experience and practice within the Bank and elsewhere, and developing innovative approaches; * participating in Bankwide efforts to assess skill requirements, and to upgrade skills through recruitment, training, orientation, seminars, newsletters, etc.; * representing the Bank to external communities of interest; and * maintaining an awareness of relevant external practices and viewpoints. Jean-Francois Rischard assumed the role as Vice President for FPD in January 1993. As part of the reorganization of the Bank in 1997, the FPDVP was terminated and replaced with the Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Network (FPSI). FPSI was created along with three other networks: the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PREM); the Human Development Network (HDN); and the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Network (ESSD). The FSD, PSD, and IEN departments of FPDVP were transferred to FPSI, joining the new Transportation, Water, and Urban Development Department (TWU).
Functional responsibility for financial sector development originated in the Financial Development Unit (INDFD) established in July 1983, which was located in the Industry Department (IND) of the Energy and Industry Vice Presidency (EIS). This unit was founded in the context of the 1980s debt crisis and turmoil in developing nations' financial sectors and institutions. The INDFD had the responsibility to carry out policy, research, and review work with regard to the financial sector. It additionally coordinated work with financial intermediaries in other Bank units as well as the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In July 1985, INDFD was upgraded to a Division. Millard F. Long assumed the role of first Chief and later Division Chief in INDFD from 1983 to 1987. As part of a Bank-wide reorganization in 1987, the IND was terminated. The staff and functions of the INDFD were transferred to the Financial Policy and Systems Division located in the Country Economics Department (CECFP) of the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC). CECFP was created in July 1987 with five other divisions, including: the Trade Policy Division (CECTP); the Debt and Macroeconomic Adjustment Division (CECDA); the Public Economics Division (CECPE); the Public Sector Management and Private Sector Development Division (CECPS); and the Special Studies Division (CECSS). CEC was responsible for providing leadership in the design and analysis of country development policies through researchpolicy work, operation advice and support, and training and liaison with outside research groups. CECFP focused specifically on financial policy and systems for financial sector lending, regulation, supervision, and restructuring. CECFP was led by Division Chief Millard Long from 1987 to 1991, and later by Andrew Len Tao Sheng in 1992. As part of another reorganization that took effect in January 1993, the majority of financial sector development functions and staff from CECFP were transferred to the newFinancial Sector Development Department (FSD) located in the new Finance and Private Sector Development Vice Presidency (FPDVP). Some staff were also transferred to the Finance & Private Sector Development Division (PRDFP) located in the Policy Research Department (PRD) of the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC), which served as a research oriented division, and worked closely with the FPDVP departments, including FSD. FSD was created alongside two other subordinate departments in FPDVP, including the Private Sector Development Department (PSD) and the Industry and Energy Department (IEN). FSD was assigned responsibility for: * formulating and disseminating policies and guidelines with regard to its sector; * monitoring the effectiveness of policies and approaches; * maintaining effective relations with Bank-external organizations and professionals in the field; and * providing operational support, especially in the areas of financial sector organization and regulatory frameworks, specialized finance, bank restructuring and management, and capital markets development. FSD work focused on the following themes: bank and enterprise restructuring; finance intermediation; capital markets development; and financial sector infrastructure. Millard Long served as Acting Director for FSD in 1993, and was later succeeded by Director Gary Perlin from 1994 to 1995 and by Acting Director Diana McNaughton from 1996 to 1997. As part of the reorganization of the Bank in 1997, the FPDVP was terminated and replaced with the Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Network (FPSI). The research division of the PRDFP was also terminated at this time. FPSI was created along with three other networks: the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PREM); the Human Development Network (HDN); and the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Network (ESSD). The FPSI consisted of four subordinate departments: the Financial Sector Department (FSD); the Private Sector Development Department (PSD); the Energy, Mining, and Telecommunications Department (EMT); and the Transportation, Water, and Urban Development Department (TWU). The responsibilities of FPSI included: * developing vibrant private sectors with rapid job growth by implementing the financial sector reinforcement program; * speeding up the emergence of livable, bankable, and competitive cities; * promoting the growth in energy and infrastructure provision that is environmentally sensitive; * stemming infrastructure deficit; and * sharing in the promise of the Information Age. FSD activities focused on strengthening banking, capital markets, and regulatory policy in emerging economies. In 1998, the FPSI added the financial sector oriented Special Financial Operations Unit (SFO) and the Capital Markets Development Department (CMD) to address the East Asia Financial Crisis of 1997. The FPSI was terminated, however, in January 1999 because the network became too large with multiple sector focuses; greater response was also needed for the East Asia Financial Crisis from financial sector related units. As a result, the functions of PSD, EMT, and TWU were transferred to the newly established Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Vice Presidency (PSIVP) and the FSD, CMD, and SFO functions were transferred to the financial sector oriented Financial Operations Vice Presidency (FIOVP). At its establishment, FIOVP departments included: the Financial Sector Practice Department (FSP); the Capital Markets Development Department (CMD); and the Special Financial Operations Department (SFO). The FIOVP, however, was short lived and was terminated in June 1999. The FIOVP was replaced by the Financial Sector Vice Presidency (FSEVP), which was launched in July 1999. FSEVP retained the FSD, FSP, CMD, and SFO departments of FIOVP, and added the new Banking and Financial Institutions Department (BFI). The joint IMF and World Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) pilot program was also launched in 1999 as a response to the East Asia Financial Crisis, and was designed to rapidly assess and respond to financial sector crises. The FSP department assumed FSAP responsibilities, and FSEVP representatives were also responsible to sit on the joint IMF and Bank Financial Sector Liaison Committee (FSLC) to oversee implementation of FSAP missions, and review subsequent policy development and lending. In 2001, the FSEVP was restructured to three departments, including: the Financial Sector Strategy and Policy Department (FSP); the Financial Sector Development Department (FSD); and the Banking and Financial Restructuring Department (BFR). FSEVP was restructured again in 2003, at which point it included: the Global Partnerships Program; the Financial Market Integrity and Money Laundering Program; the Financial Market Integrity Group (FSEFI); the FIRST Trust Fund Initiative (FSEFT); the Financial Sector Strategy and Policy Department (FSEGP); and the Financial Sector Operations and Policy Department (OPD). In 2006, the FSEVP was terminated and its functions were transferred to the Financial and Private Sector Development Vice Presidency (FPDVP). The FPDVP was organized jointly by the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). This joint effort was intended to combine the Bank's financial sector policy expertise and the IFC's rapid response advisory services to more effectively meet the growing demand for private and financial sector development services from developing countries. The FSEVP functions were combined with existing IFC private sector development oriented units, including: the Corporate Governance and Capital Markets Advisory (CCG); the Global Corporate Governance Forum (GCGF); and the Investment Climate Group (CIC). The joint IFC and MIGA Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) was also included in the new FPDVP. The transferring of FSE functions created the following new groups and advisory services: the Financial Market Integrity Group (FPDFI); the FinancialMarkets for Social Safety Net Group (FPDSN); the Financial Systems Group (FPDFS); and the Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening (FIRST) Initiative. Around 2010, the FPDVP was restructured, and the following groups were added: the Global Indicators and Analysis Group (GIA); the Global Markets Development Group (GCM); and the Financial Inclusion Group. FPDFS, CGP, CIC, FIRST, FIAS, and CGP units were retained.
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) began operations in 1991 as a three-year pilot project sponsored by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and the World Bank. The first meeting of the three agencies took place in December 1990. The Executive Directors of the World Bank adopted Resolution No. 91-5 on March 14, 1991, thereby legally establishing the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET), with initial funding of $1 billion, which was pledged by industrialized and developing countries. The first Participants meeting took place in May of 1991. A Tripartite Agreement signed by the three cosponsoring agencies on October 28, 1991, formalized the governance and operational mechanisms of the GEF. The purpose of the GEF is to assist in the protection of the global environment and to promote environmental sustainable development. Specifically, it provide[s] new and additional grants and concessional funding to cover the 'incremental' or additional costs associated with transforming a development project with national benefits into one with global environmental benefits (GEF website, June 18, 2012). Countries can obtain GEF funds if they are eligible to borrow from the World Bank or receive technical assistance grants from UNDP. Investments initially took place in four areas of global interest, or focal areas: international waters; biodiversity; climate change, and, under the terms outlined in the Montreal Protocol (MP), the layer of stratospheric ozone. Later, the areas of land degradation and persistent organic pollutants would be added. Initially, the World Bank undertook the Chairmanship of the GEF; the director of the Bank's Environment Department (ENV) served as Chair. A GEF Administrator's Unit (ENVGE) was created in 1991 in the Environment Department as was the Global Environment Unit (ENVGC) which would coordinate GEF-related projects implemented by the Bank and conduct other related activities. The Bank's initial activities included: serving as Trustee and administrator of the GEF; encouraging inclusion of GEF investment areas in national environment programs of recipient countries; managing the project cycle for investment projects; and organizing GEF project identification, appraisal, and supervision processes with other agencies. At the conclusion of its pilot phase in 1994, the GEF was restructured and moved out of the World Bank system to become a permanent, separate institution. As part of this restructuring, the involvement of developing countries in the decision-making process and implementation of projects was enhanced and greater transparency was achieved. At this time, the GEF became the financial mechanism for both the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In partnership with the Montreal Protocol of the Vienna Convention on Ozone Layer Depleting Substances, the GEF also started funding projects that enabled countries to phase out their use of ozone-destroying chemicals. Later, the GEF was selected to serve as the financial mechanism for two more international conventions: the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants in 2001 and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in 2003. The governance structure of the GEF includes: an Assembly of all participating countries which meets every three to four years and is responsible for reviewing and evaluating the GEF's general policies, the operation of the GEF, and its membership; a Council, which acts as the main governing body of the GEF and is responsible for developing, adopting, and evaluating the operational policies and programs for GEF activities; and a Secretariat, which services and reports to the governing Council and the Assembly and is functionally independent but is supported administratively by the World Bank. Among the Secretariat's major functions are: * implementing the decisions of the GEF Assembly and Council; * coordinating the formulation and overseeing the implementation of program activities pursuant to the joint work program; * ensuring the implementation of the operational policies adopted by the council through the preparation of common guidelines on the project cycle in consultation with implementing agencies; and * reviewing and reporting to the council on the adequacy of work programs made by the implementing agencies in accordance with the guidelines referred to above. Its business activities include: external/corporate relations; policy development; operations and business strategy; monitoring and evaluation; GEF Council and Assembly activities; annual reporting; communications and outreach; and administration. As of 2012, the GEF involves 182 participating countries and various international institutions, civil society organizations, and the private sector. In addition to the World Bank, UNDP, and UNEP, GEF has seven other implementing agencies responsible for creating project proposals and for managing GEF projects. The World Bank continues to serve as the GEF Trustee; as such, it mobilizes resources for the GEF Trust Fund and manages the Fund. It also seeks to mobilize resources from the private sector that are consistent with GEF objectives and national sustainable development strategies. The UNDP is responsible for technical assistance activities and capacity building and helps to identify projects and activities consistent with the purpose of the GEF and national sustainable development strategies. It is also charged with running the Small Grants Programme for non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The UNEP is responsible for catalyzing the development of scientific and technical analysis and advancing environmental management in GEF-financed activities. It also manages the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP), an independent advisory body that provides scientific and technical guidance to the GEF.
The Human Resources Development and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (HRO) was one of three Vice Presidencies created during President Lewis Preston's reorganization of January 1, 1993. Following the abolishment of all Senior Vice Presidencies on December 1, 1991, Preston initiated a larger reorganization in 1993 that aligned the Bank's organization with the priority areas of its poverty reduction effort. The result was three new thematic vice presidencies: the HRO; Finance and Private Sector Development (FPD); and Environmentally Sustainable Development (ESD). The vice presidencies were responsible for: * Providing operational support to the Regions through participation in Sector Operations Division (SOD) task teams, undertaking specialized assignments for the Regions, providing ad hoc advice, distilling lessons of operational experience and disseminating best practices, and definition of sector and operational policies; * Assisting in identifying and addressing the Bank's skisurells mix and training needs; * Providing information and intellectual support to interested actors outside the Bank; * Liaising with the UN and other official and private organizations; * Delivering complete products to the country directors in the 'clustered subsectors', where the small number of expert staff can most efficiently be located in the central Vice Presidency. As part of the 1993 reorganization, the former Population and Human Resources Department was terminated and its divisions were split between two newly created departments: the Population, Health and Nutrition Department (PHN) and the Education and Social Policy Department (ESP). Both of these departments were placed in the HRO Vice Presidency along with an Operations Policy Department (OPR). The OPR absorbed the functions of: the former Central Operations Department (COD); the International Economic Relations Division (OPRIE); and the UN Office in New York (OPRNY) transferred from the External Relations Department (EXT). In January 1994, President Lewis Preston created a secretariat within the HRO (HROAN) responsible for managing a program of the Bank's 50th anniversary activities. On July 1 1995, HRO became Human Capital Development and Operations Policy (HCO). At this time education, health, nutrition and population functions were again combined in a single department named the Human Development Department (HDD). A Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP) was also formed and placed in HCO.
Between the years 1993 and 1997, the Education and Social Policy Department (ESP), Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP), and Poverty, Gender, and Public Sector Management Department (PGP) were responsible for the functions of a number of different social- and poverty-focused sectors, including gender and development, poverty analysis and policy, and, temporarily, education. While the departments were organized into 'teams' or 'groups', activities often overlapped. ESP was created as part of the Bank-wide 1993 reorganization. The Population and Human Resources Department (PHR) was terminated and its functions were split between two newly created departments: the Population, Health and Nutrition Department (PHN) and ESP. Both of these departments were placed in the Human Resources Development and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (HRO). ESP absorbed the functions of the following PHR divisions: Education and Employment Division (PHREE); the Women in Development Division (PHRWD); and the Poverty Analysisand Policy Division (PHRPA). ESP performed operational and analytical work in four main thematic areas: * poverty analysis and social policy; * labor markets and safety nets; * women in development; and * education and training. The ESP Department was responsible for: * formulating and disseminating policies and guidelines for its sectors; * monitoring the effectiveness of policies and approaches; * identifying and disseminating best practices and lessons of experience; * liaising with external organizations and professionals in the field; * assessing skills requirements and upgrading skills; and * providing operational support to the Regions. On July 1, 1995, HRO became the Human Capital Development and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (HCO), and ESP was terminated. The education team of ESP was moved into the newly established Human Development Department (HDD) of HCO. The remaining teams were moved into the new Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP). PSP contained four groups: * Gender Analysis and Policy; * Poverty and Social Assistance; * Labor Markets, Social Protection, and Public Sector Management; * Participation and Non-Governmental Organizations. On December 31, 1995, HCO was terminated, and replaced by the Human Capital Development Vice-Presidency (HCD). PSP remained in HCD. As part of a Bank-wide reorganization in 1997, PSP sectors and functions were mapped into a new network-based structure. This process began in September of 1996 with a series of temporary relocations of PSP sectors. Labor Market and Social Protection activities were transferred to the Human Development Department (HDD) and then subsequently mapped into the new Human Development Network (HDN). The Participation and Non-Governmental Organizations team was transferred to the Environmental Social Policy and Resettlement Division (ENVSP) of the Environmentally Sustainable Development Vice Presidency (ESDVP). ENVSP was subsequently mapped into the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Network (ESSD). In December 1996, the Human Capital Development Vice-Presidency (HCD) was terminated. The remaining PSP Groups of HCD were temporarily transferred to the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC) under the oversight of International Economic Department Director (IECDR) Masood Ahmed. While being overseen by DEC, the Gender Analysis and Policy Group, the Poverty and Social Assistance Group, and activities related to Public Sector Management temporarily became the Poverty, Gender, and Public Sector Management Department (PGP). The transition was finally completed in July 1997 when the sectors within PGP were individually mapped into the new Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PREM).
The units responsible for World Bank operations have changed frequently in name and status since the beginning of Bank operations in 1946. A summary of organizational and functional changes relevant to Bank operations in Central and South America and the Caribbean since 1946 is provided in this description. Units responsible for operations in the region include: 1946-1952 Loan Department (LOD) Economic Department (ECD) 1952-1965 Department of Operations - Western Hemisphere (WHM) Technical Operations Department (TOD) 1965-1969 Western Hemisphere Department (WHM) Projects Department 1969-1972 Central America and Caribbean Department (CAC) South American Department (SAM) Projects Department 1972-1987 Latin America and the Caribbean Vice Presidency (LCN) 1987-1997 Latin America and Caribbean Vice Presidency (LAC) 1997-present Latin America and Caribbean Vice Presidency (LCR) 1946 - 1952 The operations function of the World Bank has, in one form or another, been organized according to geographic regionthroughout the history of the Bank. Upon the Bank's opening in 1946, operational lending was executed out of the Loan Department (LOD). Parallel to the LOD was the Economic Department (ECD) which conducted sector analysis and research work. Both Departments were organized along geographical lines. The LOD was responsible for developing loan operation policy, receiving and investigating loan inquiries and presenting them to Bank management for consideration, and negotiating loans. The organizational structure of LOD fluctuated over its seven year history. It initially consisted of seven divisions of which the Eastern Latin American Division and the Western Latin American Division were two. In 1948, the seven divisions were briefly consolidated into two (the European and United Kingdom Division and the Latin American, Asiatic and African Division) and then, in November of 1948, divisions were abolished altogether, as loans were assigned to loan officers on an ad hoc basis. In 1950, LOD was again divided intothree geographical areas, of which the Latin America Division was one. Beginning in 1946, the ECD was responsible for both functional and geographic analyses, i.e. general economic studies and country specific studies. Their work supported the LOD and its loan administration and advised member countries on their economic and sector development plans. The ECD also liaised with international organizations on economic research and provided staff for Bank missions. The Department initially consisted of threearea divisions (Latin America being located in its "Development Areas Division") and an Economic Technology Division responsible for specialized sector studies. In August 1948 a new organizational structure featuring two area divisions was installed. Area Division I was responsible for Europe and Area Division II was divided into four sections of which Central America and South America were two. In March 1950 another reorganization divided the Department into an advisory staff and an area staff, the latterconsisting of three divisions of which Latin America was one. The first loans to the region were to Chile: World Bank loan 0005 - [Power and Irrigation Project (P006578)](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P006578/power-irrigation-project?lang=en) and loan 0006 - [Agricultural Machinery Project to Chile (P006577)](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P006577/agricultural-machinery-project?lang=en.) Both loans were signed on 25 March 1948 and related to hydro-electric development, forest industries, railway electrification, transportation facilities and port mechanization. These loans were also the Bank's first development loans, as the four previous loans were all to European countries and were for post-war reconstruction. In July of 1951 the first Country Office in the region was opened in Managua, Nicaragua. Offices in Panama City, Panama (October 1953), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (May 1954), Guatemala City, Guatemala (February 1955) and Bogota, Colombia (July 1955) followed. 1952 - 1972 A sizable reorganization that took effect in September of 1952 created an operational structure that would endure for the next twenty years. LOD staff were combined with the country-related staff from the ECD to form three distinct geographical Area Departments: Western Hemisphere (WHM); Europe, Africa and Australasia (EAA); and Asia and Middle East (AME). These units were primarily responsible for World Bank-member country relations. Functions included: loan policy and plan development; country development program appraisal andreview; preparation of proposed loans; and country economic monitoring. As part of this 1952 reorganization, the sector-oriented staff of the former ECD formed the Technical Operations Department (TOD) and was placed in charge of project appraisal and supervision. Specifically, the TOD was responsible for: the appraisal of proposed projects; advising Area Departments on proposed projects and assisting in negotiations; supervising approved projects and assisting borrowers in procurement efforts; and monitoring and reporting on member countries' sector economies. A significant reorganization of regional departments' country groupings occurred in 1965. This also included a name change for the Region to the Western Hemisphere Department (WHM). A subsequent reorganization in 1969 resulted in the division of WHM into two new departments: the Central America and Caribbean Department (CAC) and the South America Department (SAM). This development was solely an organizational change, as functional responsibilities from WHM remained the same. Primary responsibility for regional lending projects remained the responsibility of the sector-oriented Project Departments, which had succeeded the TOD in 1965. Also during this period, the Bank established and chaired the first consultative group in the region. In June 1962 the Colombian government requested the Bank's participation in the formation of a consultative group that would coordinate external financial assistance for the country. Most of the functions involved in the operation of a consultative group were already carried out by Bank department staff in its relations with countries, however they would perform these functions "more intensively or more frequently" when sponsoring groups. The operations of the groups varied according to their different circumstances but in most cases the Bank's responsibilities were, as defined in 1965: providing periodic, comprehensive reports on the country's development possibilities, problems, and performance as a basis for the consultative group's deliberations; analyzing the country's aid requirements and problematic debt commitments, and recommending types and terms of aid; assisting the recipient government to prepare or revise a development program or advise on problems in its implementation; assisting in identifying projects and other technical assistance and arranging for feasibility studies; and advising participants on which sectors and projects deserve priority for external funding. The role of the group's chairman, typically the Bank's Area or Country Director, encouraged dialogue at meetings and coordinated donor efforts to meet the country's financing needs. The department also drafted the minutes or summary of proceedings and the list of delegates of group meetings. These functions essentially remained unchanged through 1999. 1972 - 1987 A more significant reorganization of the operations complex took effect in October 1972. The seven departments that made up the Area Departments were elevated to five Regional Vice Presidencies (RVP). South and Central America and the Caribbean were reunited in the Latin America and the Caribbean Vice Presidency (LCN). The RVPs reported to the new Senior Vice President, Operations (SVPOP). In order to more effectively fuse country knowledge and sectoral skills, the reorganization removed most of the Bank's operational project work from the Project Departments to the RVPs. Regional units within RVPs were given "line authority" to analyze, decide and act on country development operationswhile the remaining staff was organized into sector-oriented departments within each RVP; these were known as Central Projects Staff and constituted each Region's Project Department. Each RVP was responsible for planning and executing IBRD/IDA development assistance programs subject to the overall framework of Bank policies, priorities and operating procedures. The RVPs created regional plans and budgets, ensured the effective implementation of approved plans, created country economic and sector reports,and developed and implemented loan, credit, technical assistance, and other forms of development projects. The RVPs were also responsible for maintaining sound relations with governments of assigned countries and with aid organizations and donors involved in those countries. Upon the completion of the 1972 reorganization, the organizational structure in LCN included two Country Programs Departments (with four divisions reporting to each) and a Projects Department containing five sector divisions (Agriculture; Development Finance Companies; Education; Public Utilities; and Transportation). The Country Program Departments were staffed by country economists and loan officers whose primary responsibilities were: conducting area reviews of Bank activities and countries' economic and political developments; formulating country lending and economic and sector work programs and implementing country programs; and reviewing loan applications, negotiating loans, and administering loans. The Projects Department provided technical assistance and advice to members and borrowers on sectoral issues, priorities, and project development from identification through operation. The Projects Department, consisting of economists, financial analysts, and sector specialists, was specifically responsible for: creating sector policies; assisting countries with the identification and preparation of projects; appraising potential projects and assisting the Country Programs Departments in loan negotiation and credit agreements; and helping borrowers manage consultants and procurement. Note that not all operational responsibility was transferred from the Projects Departments to the RVPs. Staff in sectors too small to decentralize to the various regions continued to provide a complete "operational package" of technical services to the regions. These units, such as Population and Nutrition and Urban Projects, were known as Central Operating Projects Departments and were located in the newly formed Vice President, Central Projects (CPSVP) which, like the RVPs, reported to the SVPOP. In addition, those former Projects Department units which had their operational functions dispersed to the RVPs still maintained a core staff in the CPSVP with responsibility for policy and advisory work only. 1987 - 1997 While the make-up of the Country Programs Departments and Projects Department changed between 1972 and 1987 (most notably with a considerable increase in the number of Projects Department sector divisions), the organization and functions of the departments as well as the RVPs were consistent until 1987. In July of 1987, however, a Bank-wide reorganization under President Barber Conable altered the structures of the RVPs considerably. The changes were brought on by a desire to strengthen the Bank's country focus by making the Country Department the basic program and budget unit. The new Country Departments which replaced the Country Program Departments in the 1987 reorganization combined the macro-economic work of the former Country Programs Departments and the sector work of the former Projects Department. Each Country Department would consist of a Country Operations Division (COD) as well as multiple Sectoral Operations Divisions (SOD) made up of staff from the former Projects Departments. The COD was composed of Lead, Country and Specialized economists as well as Country Officers and was responsible for: liaising with state governments and developing knowledge of issues in the country; preparing and supervising the country's aid strategy; and providing full responsibility for certain country-wide operations such as Structural Adjustment Loans and country economic work. SODs were responsible for overall sectoral strategy and for planning, programming and implementing development activities for the countries in their respective sectoral specialties; this would include the provision of full lending project management as well as lending and sector evaluation work. Not all staff was moved from the former Project Departments into the Country Departments' SODs in the reorganization of 1987. Those remaining formed a new Technical Department within each RVP. It was responsible for higher level knowledge collection, assessment, and dissemination. The Technical Department, which was organized into sector-focused divisions, was to stimulate innovation in operational work and undertake strategic thinking by providing advice, operational support, regional studies, staff training and the dissemination of materials to Bank staff, donors, and other institutions outside the Bank. The Department would continue to offer operational help in the form of task management, task support, and advice. They would also work closely with Policy, Planning and Research (PPR) staff in conducting regional studies and reviews and advising on sector policy and research priorities. During the 1987 reorganization the number of RVPs was decreased from six to four. However, the Latin America and Caribbean Vice Presidency remained constant in its name. It did, however, change its acronymto LAC. Beginning in 1987, LAC had four Country Departments. A subsequent reorganization in 1993 strengthened the Country Departments' SODs through unit reorganization and a transfer of staff from the Regional Technical Departments to the SODs. The Technical Departments were greatly reduced in size and were restructured to reflect the emphasis on sectoral and thematic responsibilities of the SODs. The Technical Departments operational support function was consequently reduced. 1997 - present A 1996-1997 reorganization modified the changes made in 1987 and 1993. The RVP continued to be responsible for all aspects of country development assistance for its member countries, including: country assistance strategy; lending operations; technical assistance operations; and economic and sector work. However, the primary objective of the reorganization was to deepen the country focus and responsiveness to client needs. This was accomplished in a number of ways. The most striking changes concerned the new CountryManagement Units (CMUs) which replaced the former Country Departments. The CMUs were smaller than their predecessor (that is, each was responsible for a smaller number of countries) while their number correspondingly increased. In the Latin American Region, the number of CMUs rose from four in 1996 to seven in 1998. In addition, there was an increasing decentralization of CMU staff and country directors from Bank headquarters in Washington to locations within client countries. Already by 2000, new CMUshad been established in Mexico City, Mexico (LCC1C), Brasilia, Brazil (LCC5C), Lima, Peru (LCC6C), and Buenos Aires, Argentina (LCC7C). At the same time, an increase in authority with regard to strategy and budget was given to the country directors. The CMUs continued to be responsible for overall preparation and supervision of the country's assistance strategy, full lending project management, and evaluation of lending and sector work. During the reorganization, the former Technical Departments were changed into Sector or Technical Families. The role of the Technical Families, which consisted of sector and project economists and selected specialist staff, was to formulate knowledge on technical subjects and best practice and to suggest innovation through research and development. A group of Technical Families was placed alongside a number of CMUs within each Regional Vice Presidency. As a result of the 1997 reorganization, the Latin America and the Caribbean Region retained its original name but again changedits acronym, this time to LCR.
Prior to 1983, public sector management or activities aimed specifically at reforming public sector institutions and entities within developing countries remained virtually absent from World Bank operations. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, however, the economies of many Bank member countries were increasingly perceived as being overburdened with large, wasteful, and inefficient public sector entities that hindered economic development. Public sector reform was sought to reduce wasteful spending, limit public sector growth, and create a different balance between the public and private sectors in developing countries. In 1983, the Bank responded to the public sector reform demand by establishing the Public Sector Management Unit (PPDPS) located in the Projects Policy Department (PPD). PPDPS was given the responsibilities of research, operational support, and developing strategies for improving the management of governments and government-controlled enterprises. The PPDPS focused on areas of civil servicereform, and privatization of selected public services to improve balance of the public and private sectors. Arturo Israel was named Chief for PPDPS. Around 1987, the Bank established its first Regional Technical Department devoted to Public Sector Management in the Africa Regional Vice Presidency (AFR). Like other sector-oriented units in the Technical Department, the Public Sector Management Division (AFTPS) was responsible for region-and country- specific knowledge collection, assessment and dissemination through regional sector studies and planning, operational support, staff training, and the provision of advice and materials to Bank staff, clients, and donors. Through PPDPS and the Regional Technical Departments, public sector reform was addressed through the utilization of a variety of lending instruments, including: structural adjustment and credits; public enterprise reconstruction loans and credits; and freestanding technical assistance loans and credits for public sector management. As part of the 1987 Bank-wide reorganization, the PPD was terminated. The functions and staff of the PPDPS were transferred to the newly established Public Sector Management and Private Sector Development Division (CECPS) located in the Country Economics Department (CEC) of the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC). CECPS was created in July 1987 with five other CEC divisions, including: the Trade Policy Division (CECTP); the Debt and Macroeconomic Adjustment Division (CECDA); the Public Economics Division (CECPE); the Financial Policy and System Division (CECFP); and the Special Studies Division (CECSS). CECPS responsibilities included: * providing intellectual leadership; * advising on Bank policy; * participating in missions to prepare and appraise projects and advise governments; * acting as a liaison with other agencies active in public sector management and private sector development; * developing and implementing training courses for Bank staff; and * promoting research in the areas of public sector management and private sector development. CECPS combined private sector development and public sector management focuses to help foster a better balance of private and public sectors within member countries. Specific CECPS activities included advising on privatization of state-enterprises, performing private sector assessments, and improving the relations between the public and private sector through regulatory reform. Arturo Israel assumed the role as Division Chief for the newly established CECPS. TheLatin America debt crisis of the 1980s, the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, and the World Bank Report Sub-Saharan Africa: From Crisis to Sustainable Growth: A Long-Term Perspective Study:http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/1989/11/439705/crisis-sustainable-growth-sub-saharan-africa-long-term-perspective-study published in 1989 prompted renewed interests in public sector management related activities in World Bank operations, and also marked a shifting point in re-defining public sector management within the World Bank. Public sector management services were in demand to stabilize rapid decentralization and for limiting growing fiscal deficits in Latin America. The fall of the Soviet Union also created an immediate demand for public sector management services to help decentralize, reduce, and modernize the large and overburdened Central and Eastern European governments of the former Soviet Union. The Sub-Saharan publication detailed the systematic failure of many governments and public sector institutions in Sub-Saharan Africa member countries. It additionally introduced the topic of "good governance" in relation to public sector management. The World Bank responded by increasing and enhancing public sector management activities and staff in the existing Public Sector Management Division in the Africa Technical Department (AFTPS) and, in 1991, establishing similar Public Sector Management Technical Advisory Divisions in the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Vice Presidency (LACVP) and the Europe and Central Asia Regional Vice Presidency (ECAVP). A governance task force was also launched in 1991 in response to the Sub-Saharan Africa publication. Two reports were subsequently published: the Governance and Development:http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/1992/04/440582/governance-development report published in 1992, and the Governance: the World Bank's Experience:http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/1994/05/698374/governance-world-banks-experience report published in 1994. The reports built on the good governance topic introduced in the Sub-Saharan Africa publication and articulated a World Bank specific governance definition: "Governance is the manner in which power is exercised in the management of a country's economic and social resources for development" (Governance and Development, World Bank, 1992, pgs. 1-2). Three aspects of governance were outlined: * the form of the political regime; * the process by which authority is exercised in the management of a country's economic and social resources for development; and * the capacity of governments to design, formulate, and implement policies and discharge functions. The reports additionally broke down governance into four dimensions: public sector management; accountability; transparency and information; and legal framework for development. These reports incorporated public sector management into the broader definition of governance, and marked a change in Bank-wide policy towards public sector management. As part of the Bank-widereorganization that took effect in January 1993, CECPS was terminated, and its staff and functions were transferred to different newly created units. Most private sector development (PSD) oriented staff were transferred to the new Private Sector Department (PSD) located in the new Finance and Private Sector Development Vice Presidency (FPDVP), and other PSD research staff were transferred to the new Finance and Private Sector Development Division (PRDFD) located in the Policy and Research Department (PRD) of the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC). Public sector management oriented staff and functions were transferred to the Public Sector Management Unit located in the new Operations Policy Group (OPRPG) of the Operations and Policy Review Department (OPR). OPR was located in the new Human Resources Development and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (HRO), and was created alongside the Population, Health, and Nutrition Department (PHN) and the Education and Social Policy Department (ESP). The responsibilities of Public Sector Management Unit within OPRPG included: * providing leadership in dealing with pressing issues in the public sector managemnt area, particularly in the field of public expenditure management, budget reform, and civil service reform; * providing advice, support, and training to operational staff, and through identification and dissemination of best practice; and * providing leadership in the area of governance in relation to public sector management. The Public Sector Management Unit in OPRPG was short lived, however, with the reorganization of HRO in July 1995. On July 1, 1995, HRO became the Human Capital Development and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (HCO). At this time, the Public Sector Management Unit staff and functions were transferred from OPRPG to the new Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP) of HCO. PSP replaced the former the Education and Social Policy Department (ESP) of HRO. The Public Sector Management Unit was merged into the following PSP group: Labor Markets, Social Protection, and Public Sector Management. This group was established alongside three others, including: Gender Analysis and Policy; Poverty and Social Assistance; and Participation and Non-Governmental Organizations. Alberto de Capitani assumed the role as Manager of the Public Sector Management Unit within the Labor Markets, Social Protection, and Public Sector Management group. On December 31, 1995, HCO was terminated, and replaced by the Human Capital Development Vice-Presidency (HCD). PSP remained in HCD. Jane Armitage later replaced Alberto de Capitani as Public Sector Management Unit Manager in 1996. In the fall of 1996, events helped change the course and raise the profile of public sector management and governance activities within the World Bank. The first of these events occurred in October 1996, when President James D. Wolfensohn delivered his "Cancer of Corruption" speech at the World Bank/ IMF Annual Meeting, which outlined corruption as a major impediment to development, and called for greater action by World Bank operations to combat corruption. This speech launched the Corruption Action Plan Working Group to explore ways to improve the strategic framework for anti-corruption measures in World Bank operations. As part of this new push, the public sector reform activities of public sector management and governance units of the Bank received renewed focus and anti-corruption was subsequently linked to public sector management and governance. Around this same time, President Wolfensohn initiated a Bank-wide reorganization. As part of this reorganization, PSP sectors and functions were mapped into a new network-based structure with a series of temporary relocations. In December 1996, the Human Capital Development Vice-Presidency (HCD) was terminated. In January 1997, the Public Sector Management Unit was transferred to the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC) under the oversight of International Economic Department Director (IECDR) Masood Ahmed , along with the Gender Analysis and Policy Group and the Poverty and Social Assistance Group. The Public Sector Management Unit and these two groups were then temporarily organized into the Poverty, Gender, and Public Sector Management Department (PGP). In July 1997, PGP sectors were officially mapped into the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PREM). At its establishment, the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PREM) consisted of four departments: Economic Policy Division (PRMEP); Gender Division(PRMGE); Poverty Division (PRMPO); and Public Sector Management Division (PRMPS). The functions and staff of the former Public Sector Management Unit of PGP were mapped into PRMPS. The responsibilities of the PRMPS included: * improving the understanding and expertise of Bank staff in the area of public sector reform; * expanding opportunities and incentives for the development of knowledge and the sharing of insights and experiences both inside and outside the Bank; and * strengthening the positive impact of Bank interventions on the functioning of public sector institutions in borrowing countries. The major activities of PRMPS focused on the following areas: public sector strategy; public finance; governance and accountability mechanisms (e.g. anti-corruption, legal and judicial strategy, civil service reform); decentralization; public enterprise reform; and technical assistance. A Public Sector Board (PSB) was also established to coordinate the functions and activities to PRMPS. Cheryl Gray assumed the role of Director and PSB Chair for PRMPS in 1997. In 2002, Sanjay Pradhan succeeded Cheryl Gray as PRMPS Director and PSB Chair. In 2003, PRMPS was renamed the Public Sector Governance Department, but retained its acronym. In 2007, the World Bank pursued a governance and anti-corruption (GAC) strategy, which was articulated in the report Strengthening World Bank Group Engagement on Governance and Anticorruption. PRMPS played a key role in developing the new strategy. In 2009, Deborah Wetzel succeeded Sanjay Prahan as Director and PSB Chair for PRMPS.
The Senior Vice President of Operations (SVPOP) has its origins in the Office of the Vice President of Burke Knapp (OVPBK), or also referred to as the Vice President of Operations. Burke Knapp's Vice Presidency was established on July 24, 1956, as one of three vice presidencies replacing the Office of the Vice President of Robert Garner (OVPRG). Knapp reported directly to the President. Knapp was assigned responsibility for the Bank's operational activities, including: * lending operations; * economic, financial and technical research and analysis; * economic survey missions and other technical assistance activities; and * liaison with other lending and aid agencies on above matters. Knapp was also designated Chairman of the Staff Loan Committee and the Area Department Head meetings. The following departments reported to Knapp: the Departments of Operations, or Area Departments - Europe, Africa and Australasia, Asia and the Middle East, and Western Hemisphere; the Department of Technical Operations (TOD); and the Economic Staff (ECS). In 1965, the TOD was terminated and replaced by the new Projects Department (PRJ). PRJ continued to report to OVPBK. In 1966, with the Departure of Vice President Geoffrey Wilson (OVPGW), responsibility for the Information Department (INFO) was transferred to OVPBK. In 1967, the Information Department (INFO) was transferred to the Director of Development Services (DSD), who reported directly to the Office of the President (EXC). In 1968, the Projects Department (PRJ) was separated from OVPBK, and reported to Director and Vice President of Finance (VPF) Siem Aldewereld. In 1972, the OVPBK was terminated. Its functions were transferred to the newly established Office of the Senior Vice President of Operations (SVPOP), which was also headed by J. Burke Knapp. The Senior Vice President of Operations (SVPOP) was established on October 1, 1972, and reported directly to the Office of the President (EXC). The SVPOP was created as part of the comprehensive 1972 Bank-wide Reorganization, which upgraded the Bank's former Area Departments to new Regional Vice Presidencies (RVPs), and transferred most of the technical staff involved in project preparation and implementation from the Projects Department (PRJ) to the newly created regional projects departments located in the new RVPs, in order to more effectively fuse sector skills with country knowledge. The SVPOP would assist the Bank President in managing the integrated projects and operations staffs. Freed from day-to-day operational tasks, Knapp would concentrate on establishing operating objectives, priorities and policies, planning, spurring innovation and improving overall quality, efficiency and effectiveness. At the date of its establishment, the following vice presidencies composing the Bank's Operations Complex reported to SVPOP: the Regional Vice Presidencies (RVPs) of the Asia Vice Presidency (ASN), the East Africa Vice Presidency (EAN), the West Africa Vice Presidency (WAN), the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Vice Presidency (EMN), and the Latin America and the Caribbean Vice Presidency (LCN); and the newly established Vice President of Central Projects (CPSVP). The SVPOP also served as the Chairman for the Bank's Loan Committee and the Operational Vice Presidents (OVP, formerly the Area Department Heads) meetings. The SVPOP was also supported by a Front Office team consisting of a Senior Operations Adviser, and a Personal Assistant to the SVPOP. In 1974, the Asia Vice Presidency (ASN) was split into the South Asia Vice Presidency (ASN) and the East Asia and Pacific Vice Presidency (AEN). In 1978, Ernest Stern succeeded Burke Knapp and the SVPOP was re-titled the Vice President of Operations (VPO). The functions and responsibilities remained unchanged. In 1980, the position of the VPO of the Operations Complex was again upgraded to Senior Vice President of Operations (SVPOP). In 1982, the CPSVP was terminated and replaced by the Operations Policy Vice Presidency (OPSVP). Some staff of CPSVP were also absorbed by the new Energy and Industry Vice Presidency (EIS). Both reported to the SVPOP. In January 1983, the Secretariat of the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) was subordinated under the SVPOP; accompanying the move of Warren Baum, who served as Chairman of CGIAR, from the OPSVP to the Front Office of the SVPOP. In May 1983, a new Vice President of Cofinancing (COF) was established with responsibility for all aspects of cofinancing policies and operations, and reported to theSVPOP. Later in 1983, the Office of the Management Systems and Budget (SVPMS) was added to the SVPOP Front Office to support budget formulation functions of the SVPOP and the Operations Complex. In 1984, a Special Office for African Affairs was established in the Front Office of the SVPOP to coordinate and monitor a joint action program to expand technical and financial assistance to the countries of Sub-Saharan Africa. In July 1984, the Operations Information Systems (SVPMI) Unit was established in theSVPOP Front Office to support and develop Management Information Systems (MIS) and database administration for the SVPOP and the Operations Complex. In the May 1987 Reorganization, the Operations Complex was fundamentally restructured, the functions of the SVPOP redefined, and the SVPOP position given a new acronym (OPNSV). The main features of the reorganization were the consolidation of the former six Regional Vice Presidencies (RVP) into four, including: the Africa Vice Presidency (AFR); the Asia Vice Presidency (ASI); the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Vice Presidency (EMENA); and the Latin America and Caribbean Vice Presidency (LAC). The reorganization also resulted in the creation of Country Departments (CDs), which combined functions previously divided between Programs and Projects Departments, and the establishment of Regional Technical Departments (TDs) taking on some of the functions of the former OPSVP and the EIS. The newly reorganized Senior Vice President of Operations (OPNSV) served as a member of the President's senior management team and as Chief Operations Officer. The main responsibilities of the reorganized OPNSV included: * advising the President on major operational issues; * acting as the Bank's spokesman on operational matters vis-a-vis Part I and Part II counties; * overseeing the formulation and implementation of the Bank's economic and social development programs; and * ensuring the quality of the Bank's operational products and loans. With the completion of the reorganization's second phase in September 1987, the following vice -presidencies and departments, which made up the Operations Complex, reported to OPNSV: the four Regional Vice Presidents (RVPs) of the Africa Vice Presidency (AFR), the Asia Vice Presidency (ASI), the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Vice Presidency (EMENA), and the Latin America and Caribbean Vice Presidency (LAC); the newly established Vice President of Financial Intermediation (FIS); the Vice President of Cofinancing (COF); the Central Operations Department (COD); and the Economic Advisory Staff (EAS). The OPNSV also served as Chairman for the Operations Committee (OC, formerly the Loan Committee) and the Operations Policy Committee (OPC), which were composed of members from the Bank's Operations Complex. The OPNSV was supported by a newly reorganized Front Office, or Operations Staff (OPN), which included: the Director of Operations Staff (OPN); the Special Adviser, Lending and Budget Operations; the Special Adviser, Personnel, Budget, and Information Management; the Chief Personnel Officer; and the Special Assistant to the OPNSV. The Operations Information Systems (SVPMI) Unit acronym was changed to the OPNMI, and the Office of the Management Systems and Budget (SVPMS) acronym was changed to the OPNMS. Moeen Qureshi succeeded Ernest Stern as the new Senior Vice President for Operations (OPNSV). In January 1989, the OPNMI was upgraded to a division and renamed the Operations Information Services Division (OPNIS). In June 1989,the FIS was combined with the COF and renamed the Cofinancing and Financial Intermediation Vice Presidency (CFS). This was expected to enhance the Bank's ability to deal with debt issues and improve the service to the Regions and the borrowers. In 1991, following the appointment of World Bank President Lewis T. Preston, the senior management structure was heavily reorganized, and the Bank's senior vice presidencies were abolished, including OPNSV. As a result, the Economic Advisory Staff (EAS) was terminated, and its staff and functions were absorbed by the new Development Policy Group (DPG) located in the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC); the Central Operations Department (COD) was transferred to the Vice President of Sector Policy and Research (OSPVP); and the Vice President of Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services (CFS) reported to the newly appointed Managing Director Attila Karaosmanoglu. The four RVPs reported to Office of the President (EXC) and the newly established Managing Directors, who served as a broad administrative oversight team that supported the President. The Office of the Management Systems and Budget (OPNMS) of the OPNSV Front Office was terminated, and the Operations Information Services Division (OPNIS) functions were split between the new Information Services Division (CODIS) in the Central Operations Department (COD) and the Budget Policy and Systems Division (PBDPS) in the Planning and Budgeting Department (PBD).
The Transportation, telecommunication, water, and urban development sub-fonds contains the records created by following departments: the Transportation, Water, and Telecommunications Department (TWT); the Urban Projects Department (URB); the Water and Urban Development Department (WUD); and the Transportation Department (TRP). TWT reported to the Vice President of Central Projects (CPSVP) from 1979 to 1982. URB also reported to CPSVP from 1976 to 1982. WUD and TRP subsequently reported to the Vice President of Operations Policy (OPSVP) with the termination of CPSVP in 1982.
This fonds contains the records of the World Bank Group units responsible for donor-based resource mobilization functions related to cofinancing, trust funds, and International Development Agency (IDA) replenishments. The fonds does not include records related to the Bank's traditional resource mobilization efforts of acquiring IBRD financing through the world's financial markets because the function does not share a provenance with the units described. This administrative history describes the provenance of the administrative units for cofinancing, trust funds, and IDA replenishments separately. After 1996, the functions merged under one vice presidency. As a consequence, the post-1996 section focuses on all functions together. Cofinancing Cofinancing is defined as additional funding sought by borrowing member countries from external sources outside of the World Bank. Cofinancing is meant to supplement funding resources provided by the World Bank (e.g. IBRD/IDA loans, credits, and grants), which may fall short of the funding needs for projects and programs associated with a borrowing member country. Cofinancing funding is sought by the Bank and its member countries from the following external official and private sources: agencies or government departments administrating bilateral development programs; multilateral agencies such as regional development banks; export credit agencies; and commercial banks. Cofinance funding is administered through two types of financing methods: 1) parallel cofinancing, in which the Bank and cofinanciers finance different goods and services or parts of the project; and 2) joint cofinancing, in which the Bank and cofinanciers finance expenditures from a common list of goods and services in agreed proportions, which adhere to the Bank's procurement guidelines. Cofinancing activities were developed in the Bank to help mobilize additional funding for sector-oriented programs and projects, fill funding gaps, and also foster greater international coordination to respond more rapidly to global macro-economic crises. The first use of cofinancing in Bank operations was a joint cofinancing agreement drafted for the Mexico Power Sector Program in 1966. Initial Bank loans fell short of financing needs for projects under this program, so external funding sources were sought and renegotiated by members of the Bank's Loan Committee, cofinanciers, and the Government of Mexico. Similar agreements were negotiated thereafter for other programs and projects, including a parallel cofinancing agreement negotiated between the Bank, cofinanciers, and the Brazilian Government related to steel industry projects in 1971. The use of cofinancing to mobilize resources significantly increased in World Bank operations during the oil and energy crisis that began in 1973. In this period, Arab/OPEC multilateral institutions emerged as a primary contributor for providing cofinancing sources. Newly founded regional multilateral institutions such as the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the African Development Bank also emerged as valuable multilateral cofinancing partners. In 1975, the Bank's cofinancing functions were formalized with the establishment of the Senior Adviser for cofinancing in the Front Office for the Senior Vice President of Operations (SVPOP). Regional Cofinancing Coordinators (RCC) were also established in the six Regional Vice Presidencies (RVP). The Senior Adviser for Cofinancing took lead responsibility in Bank-wide overall planning, policy making, communication, coordination, and monitoring of cofinancing operations. The RCCs were given line responsibilities of identifying operations to be cofinanced and arranging cofinancing with official sources in the Regional Programs Departments (RPD). The RCCs were also responsible for arranging cofinancing with export credit and commercial banking sources for the Regional Projects Departments. Roger Hornstein served as the Senior Adviser for Cofinancing. In 1981, Frank Vibert succeeded Roger Hornstein as Senior Adviserfor Cofinancing in the SVPOP Front Office. Demand for cofinancing sources grew in the late 1970s and the early 1980s with the ongoing oil crisis and emerging debt crisis. This demand strained the limited cofinancing operations in the Bank. As a result, the Vice President of Cofinancing (VPCOF) was established in May 1983. Teruyuki Ohuchi served as Vice President for VPCOF. The new VPCOF reported to the Senior Vice President, Operations (SVPOP). The VPCOF was created to strengthen and expand the Bank's cofinancing operations as a means to maintain and increase international capital flows to developing countries in times of constrained financial resources. The RPD retained line responsibilities for identifying and arranging cofinancing and also for arranging cofinancing for commercial and export credit sources. A new Regional Cofinancing Advisor was also established who would have functional control for cofinancing activities in the Region. The VPCOF was given responsibilities for: * maintaining top-level contacts and promotion with cofinanciers; * developing new cofinancing tools; and * planning, coordinating, and monitoring the Bank's overall cofinancing program. The VPCOF included the subordinate Cofinancing Advisory Unit (VPCAU), which was staffed by cofinancing advisers with expertise in commercial banking, export credits, and official financial sources. During the establishment of VPCOF, the Japanese government emerged as the largest cofinancing contributor to the Bank by launching a number of cofinancing programs through the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF), Japan's development aid agency, as well as the Export-Import Bank of Japan (UEXIM). This marked the beginning of strong Japanese leadership in the Bank's cofinancing operations, which extended from the 1980s into the early 2000s. In 1983, the Bank's "B-Loan" program was launched to expand private cofinancing efforts and channel commercial bank resources to Bank operations. Shortly after, multilateral, bilateral, and export credit agency cofinancing programs were launched as part of the Japanese Grant Facility (JGF, later renamed the Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development [PHRD] Fund). In 1985, the multi-country official cofinancing (bilateral and multilateral) programs, the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (SFA) and the Consultant Trust Fund (CTF) Program, were launched. In June 1986, Teruyuki Ohuchi was succeeded by Kunihiko Inakage as Vice President for VPCOF. In the May 1987 Reorganization, the Cofinancing Vice Presidency remained structurally unchanged but new acronyms were assigned to the Office of the Vice President (COFVP) and to the Cofinancing Advisory Unit (COFAU). In June 1989, the COFVP was terminated and its functions were combined with the former Vice President of Financial Intermediation (VPFIS). This merger broadened cofinancing functions to include technical assistance in debt management and resource mobilization. The new combined VP was renamed the Vice President of Financial Intermediation and Cofinancing (CFSVP). The CFSVP reported to the Senior Vice President, Operations (OPNSV). CFSVP responsibilities included: * assisting member countries in restructuring debt; * assisting member countries with deregulation, public sector restructuring and privatization; * advising member countries on management of their foreign financial assets and liabilities; * procuring cofinancing arrangements from commercial and public sources; * developing a Bank-wide strategy and capability for dealing with privatization requests; and * developing new lending products to mobilize financial resources in commercial markets. At the time of its establishment, the CFS had one subordinate unit, the Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services Department (CFS), which incorporated the financial engineering functions of the former Debt Management and Financial Advisory Department (DFS) formerly located in the Vice President of Financial Intermediation (VPFIS), as well as most of the staff of the former CofinancingVice Presidency (COFVP). CFS consisted of the following units: the Cofinancing Group (CFSCO); the Financial Advisory Services Group (CFSFA); and the Private Sector Development Group (CFSPS). The CFSVP was also supported by a Front Office consisting of advisers in the following areas: commercial finance; official sources; export credits; and banking institutions. Koji Kashiwaya assumed the role of Vice President for the new CFSVP. In late 1989, the CFSPS was transferred from the Cofinancing and AdvisoryServices Department (CFS) to the Front Office of the CFSVP. In December 1990, the CFS Department was restructured, splitting the CFSCO into the new Official Cofinancing Group (CFSOC), and the new Private Cofinancing Group (CFSPC). In this same year, the Expanded Cofinancing Operation (ECO) program replaced the "B-Loan" program. In 1990, the CFSVP was renamed the Vice President of Cofinancing and Advisory Services (CFSVP). In February 1992, the CFSVP underwent a comprehensive reorganization to strengthen private sector development work and streamline the process of financial resource mobilization. This entailed building up the cofinancing and financial advisory capabilities in the regional Country Departments, which were given primary responsibility for implementing private sector development programs, and a consolidation of CFSVP's subordinate units. Specific responsibilities included: * mobilizing official and private equity financing to cofinance Bank supported projects; * managing and reducing the external debt of heavily indebted countries; * developing programs for public enterprise divestiture; * restructuring and privatizing of specific major public enterprises; and * developing new approaches to attract private sector investment into major infrastructure projects. The CFSVP restructuring included the merging of CFSPC and CFSPS, as well as some of the functions of the CFSFA, to create the new Private Sector Finance and Advisory Services Group (CFSPS). The responsibilities of the former CFSOC were also redefined and the unit was renamed the Official Cofinancing and Trust Fund Management Group (CFSOC). The remaining functions of CFSFA created the new Project Finance Group (CFSPF). In April 1992, the CFSPS was further restructured, and became the Private Sector Development and Privatization Group (CFSPS). In 1994, Hiroo Fukui succeeded Koji Kashiwaya as Vice President for CFSVP. In March 1996, CFSVP was terminated and the subordinate CFSOC and the CFSPF staff and functions were absorbed by the new Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing Vice Presidency (RMCVP). The CFSPS staff and functions were removed from cofinancing operations and absorbed by the Private Sector Development (PSD) Department located in the Finance and Private Sector Development Vice Presidency (FPDVP). Trust Funds A trust fund is a financing arrangement set up with contributions from one or more donors and, in some cases, from the World Bank Group. The Bank establishes and administers trust funds as a complement to IDA and IBRD financing to promote development and aid effectiveness by leveraging its capacity and development knowledge. The Bank encourages trust funds that: draw on its operational role; include contributions from more than one donor; reinforce country capacity and ownership; and promote harmonization and alignment of donor aid modalities. Selectively, the Bank also provides specific administrative and financial services to the international community for trust funds that support work on issues of global importance and where the Bank may not perform an operational role. Trust funds differ to cofinancing arrangements in that trust funds are not limited to being tied to an existing Bank loan or grant for a program or project. Trust funds are also not generally initiated by the recipient member country like cofinancing. Many funds acquired through cofinancing arrangements are distributed into a Bank administered trust fund, but cofinancing arrangements serve as one example of a more restricted type of trust fund. Trust funds have a diversity of arrangements, which provides donors flexibility to target a variety of sectoral, regional, and global initiatives. The earliest use of trust funds in World Bank Group operations can be traced to 1960 when the Bank administered the multi-donor Indus Basin Development Fund to help finance the Indus Basin Project in Pakistan. In the 1970s, the Bank also served as a financing partner in multiple global programs in partnership, with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and the World Health Organization (WHO). The most notable examples were, the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), established in 1972, and the River Blindness (Onchocerciasis) Control Program established in 1974. Significant growth of trust fund mobilization, however, occurred in the early-1980s. At this time, the Bank lacked a formal trust fund administrator or central authority charged with implementing, coordinating, and monitoring trust fund administration, and developing trust fund related policies, guidelines, and procedures. Instead, trust fund administration responsibilities were fragmented among multiple Bank units. In this period, trust funds fell into two broad categories: 1) cofinanced trust funds; and 2) trust funds that are not tied directly to Bank loans (non-cofinanced), but augmented or diversified the sources of funding for a wide range of activities, including studies, institutional development training, and technical assistance. The first category, cofinanced trust funds, were tied to existing Bank loans or credits, and were arranged either through a joint or parallel cofinancing agreement. Joint cofinancing required an agreement between the Bank and the cofinancier on the expenditure of a common list of goods or services for a project, and abided by the procurement and disbursement procedures of the Bank. Agreed upon joint cofinanced funds were deposited into a Bank administered trust fund. With parallel cofinancing, the Bank and the cofinancier agreed to finance different services, goods, or parts of a project, but the cofinancier was not required to use the procurement and disbursement procedures of the Bank. This allowed for the cofinancier to disburse funds to colenders according to their own procedures, and not have to be part of a Bank administered trust fund. Parallel cofinancing funds were part of Bank administered trust funds, however, if the parallel cofinancing agreement was "untied" and the cofinancier chose to have the Bank administer funds on the cofinancier's behalf. The second category of trust funds were not tied directly to a Bank loan (non-cofinanced). Instead, the Bank served the role of trust fund administrator either as a fiscal agent or as the Executing Agency for trust funds financed by external donors. Such trust funds included contributions from governments, private foundations, or intergovernmental organizations. Many of these trust funds were either one-time contributions, or were subject to periodic replenishments, and were also free-standing programs with their own independent administration, executive secretariat, committee structure, and funding apparatus (e.g. CGIAR and the Global Environmental Facility [GEF]). Administering trust funds as a fiscal agent simply implied the Bank was responsible for the financial management functions of accounting and disbursement for a trust fund. The role of Executing Agency was more complex in that it included accounting and disbursement functions, but also responsibilities for hiring consultants and consulting of firms, procuring goods, organizing training activities, administering project budgets, and reviewing studies and reports prepared by consultants. The Executing Agency functions not related to financial management were generally handled by program coordinators, project officers, and advisers located in the Bank's sector departments, or country program departments and country project departments located in the Regional Vice Presidencies. An executive secretariat or independent administrative unit was also usually established to administer this type of trust fund. In 1983, the newly established Vice President of Cofinancing (VPCOF) served as a focal point for the arrangement and management of cofinanced trust funds. VPCOF evolved into the central unit responsible for the management of some of the Bank's largest pooled and multi-donor technical assistance and consultant trust funds. In the early 1980s, the Japanese Government emerged as the largest cofinancier for the Bank and took a strong leadership role in leading cofinancing operations in the Bank. This included the launch of numerous grant-based trust fund programs through their donor agencies, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). The Japanese led programs were collectively referred to as the Japanese Grant Facility (JGF). In 1984, the Chief United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)/Trust Funds Section (LOATF) of the Loan Department (LOA) located in Vice President of the Treasurer (TREVP) was established to administer financial management (accounting and disbursement) of the Bank's trust funds, including the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) financed trust funds in where the Bank served as the Executing Agent. Kah Hie Lau served as Chief for the UNDP/Trust Fund Section. The VPCOF continued to be the unit responsible for the arrangement of cofinanced trust funds, but the LOATF handled the financial management of cofinanced trust funds. In 1985, the multi-donor Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (SFA) and the multi-donor Consultant Trust Fund (CTF) Program consisting of donors from multiple Bank member countries were launched. They were also managed by VPCOF and its subordinate Cofinancing Advisory Unit (VPCAU). In 1986, LOA and its subordinate LOATF were transferred to the Vice President of the Controller (CTRVP). LOATF was renamed and upgraded to the Trust Funds Division (LOATF) due to the expanding use of trust funds. In 1987, the VPCOF remained structurally unchanged but new acronyms were assigned to the Office of the Vice President (COFVP) and to the Cofinancing Advisory Unit (COFAU). In the same year, the Resource Mobilization Department (FRM) was established in the Vice President of Financial Policy and Risk Management (FPRVP). The FRM focused on resource mobilization of official IDA concessional resources and IBRD capital resources, but also played a role in managing donor negotiations and relations related to trust funds that helped supplement the concessional lending of IDA operations. This was done in close collaboration with the COFVP, or other trust funds operations focused on providing concessional resources. For instance, the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (SFA) consisted of trust funds designed specifically to supplement IDA projects and programs. The COFVP and FRM worked closely to mobilize resources for SFA, and to help foster agreements between the Bank, borrower, and donor. In 1989, the COFVP and the subordinate COFAU were terminated, and replaced by the Vice President of Financial Intermediation and Cofinancing (CFSVP). Within CFSVP, the new Official Cofinancing Group (CFSOC) served as the focal point for managing the Bank's cofinanced trust funds. CFSOC served as the key unit responsible for managing the technical assistance portions of the Consultant Trust Funds (CTF) Program, and the Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund, which consolidated numerousgrant-based programs of the former Japanese Grant Facility (JGF). Specific responsibilities of CFSOC included: * developing and maintaining institutional relations with the main donor agencies; * establishing and monitoring formal arrangements for cofinancing so that clear operational procedures and policies are in place for cofinancing with colenders; * assisting both potential cofinanciers and task managers in bringing together financing interests and funding needs; and * mobilizing grant funds for consultants to be used for the Bank's operational work, and other special purposes. John Taylor served as the Manager for CFSOC. In same year, the Bank issued Operation Manual Statement (OMS) 4.40, Trust Funds. This statement designated the role of Trust Funds Administrator (LAOTF), and assigned this role to the reorganized Loan and Trust Fund Department (LOA). This was done to expand the responsibilities of the former LOATF Chief, strengthen trust fund policies and guidelines, consolidate the fragmented trust fund administration functions, and strengthen trust funds administration Bank wide. Specific responsibilities included: * implementing the policies and guidelines for administering funds; * ensuring the consistency of information given to donors on the terms and conditions on which funds are administered by the Bank; * coordinating within the Bank to ensure compliance with Bank policies and with the specific provisions of each agreement; * participating in negotiating agreements and clearing them before signature; * ensuring that disbursements are for eligible countries only; * preparing financial reports on each fund in accordance with the agreement; * coordinating the preparation by Task Managers of implementation reports and other reporting requirements; and * requesting the donor to replenish trust fund accounts as needed. The new Trust Funds Administrator of the Loan and Trust Fund Department (LOA) remained in the CTRVP. Kah Hie Lau was promoted to the Trust Funds Administrator. In1991, the Global Environment Facility (GEF) was launched. The COFVP and the FRM served as the key units in the Bank responsible for the resource mobilization and replenishment of the GEF trust funds. In the same year, the Trust Funds Administrator was transferred to the Resource Mobilization Department (FRM) located in the Vice President of Financial Policy and Risk Management (FPRVP), and its acronym changed to FRMTF. In February 1992, the CFSVP underwent a comprehensive reorganization and the CFSOC wasrenamed the Official Cofinancing and Trust Fund Management Group (CFSOC). The newly reorganized CFSOC responsibilities included: * administering the Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund; * administering the Consultant Trust Fund (CTF) Program; * managing institutional relationships with bilateral and multilateral cofinanciers to include proactive initiatives to increase cofinancing; and * maintaining the Bank's Cofinancing Database and CTF Management Information system. CharlesMeissner served as the new Manager for the reorganized CFSOC. In 1993, the Trust Funds Administrator was removed from FRM, and transferred to the Trust Funds Administration Department (CTRTA) in the Controller Vice Presidency (CTRVP). In March 1996, CFSVP was terminated and CFSOC staff and functions as well as the Resource Mobilization Department (FRM) were absorbed by the new Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing Vice Presidency (RMCVP). CFSOC was placed in the new Cofinancing and Project Finance Department (CAP), and renamed the Official Cofinancing and Trust Funds Group (CAPOC). The Trust Funds Administrator was transferred to the new Trust Funds Division (ACTTF) in the Accounting Department (ACT) of the Controller Vice Presidency (CTRVP), and supported the new RMCVP in financial management of trust funds, and implementing policies and guidelines related to trust fund administration. IDA replenishment This section focuses on the units responsible for the following functions: leading and supporting IDA replenishments negotiations with the Bank's IDA Deputies; managing the finances of IDA's concessional lending funds; managing the allocation of IDA resources; and monitoring the implementation of IDA mandated policies within Bank operations. The International Development Agency (IDA) was established in 1960 to complement the role of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in promoting economic development by offering concessional financing to the poorer developing countries within its membership. The IDA replenished its resources through negotiations held every three years, wherein the Bank sought donations from its wealthiest Part I member countries. The first replenishment of IDA resources was held in 1962. The Bank's Board of Governors requested that the Board of Executive Director's assess financial requirements for IDA operations. Subsequently, the Financial Policy Committee of the Board was given the task of leading replenishment negotiations, and did so in a number of informal meetings with Part I member country leaders. In 1965, the second replenishment was held and, much like the first replenishment, it was initiated by the Board of Governors with a request to the Board of Executive Directors. The second IDA replenishment negotiations established Part I member country representatives as the new IDA Deputies, and the formal IDA replenishment negotiations became known as the IDA Deputy Meetings. IDA replenishment negotiations included senior officials of the Bank andthe IDA Deputies. The third replenishment was held in 1968, and the process of initiating formal negotiations by a Board of Governors request to the Executive Directors was discontinued. Formal donor meetings with the IDA Deputies where arranged by Bank management after this point. The Office of the Vice President of Sir Denis Rickett (OVPDR) established on April 1, 1968 was the unit responsible for such IDA replenishment arrangements. The OVPDR was created in conjunction with the appointment of PresidentRobert McNamara, and reported directly to him. This OVPDR was established as a liaison office of the Bank with Part I countries. Specific responsibilities included leading negotiations for IDA replenishments, and providing information on the Bank's lending programs and policies. The OVPDR was not assigned any direct responsibility for department supervision. On October 4, 1974, with the resignation of Vice President Rickett, the OVPDR was terminated. The functions of OVPDR were absorbed by the Vice President of Finance (VPF) led by I.P.M. Cargill. The VPF was also responsible for managing the Bank's financial operations and advising the President on Bank financial policies, and consisted of the following subordinate units: the Treasurer's Department (TRE) and the Programming and Budgeting Department (PAB). The IDA replenishment function was supported by two Special Assistants in the VPF Front Office. The PAB Department's Financial Analysis Division (PABFA) was responsible for providing staff support to IDAreplenishment efforts of the Front Office assistants. In 1977, the Financial Analysis Division (PABFA) of the PAB Department absorbed greater responsibility for supporting IDA replenishment from the former IDA Special Assistants of the VPF Front Office due to increased workload of the function, and planned retirement of one its assistants. The VPF continued to lead IDA replenishment negotiations, but was primarily supported by PABFA. Within PABFA, the IDA replenishment related functions were merged with financial policy, financial projections, and IBRD capital increase support responsibilities. Specific responsibilities of PABFA included: * maintaining analysis of Bank Group financial policies and activities as they affect the soundness and financial needs of the institution; * alerting management to potential financial problem conditions and proposed changes to the Bank Group's financial policies; * providing staff support related to IBRD capital increases, including periodic reviews of the appropriate capital structure of the Bank and analysis of the size, timing, and distribution by country of increases in subscribed capital; * providing staff support for the periodic IDA replenishment negotiations, including analysis of the size of replenishment burden-sharing arrangements, voting rights issues, method of payment, maintenance of value, and other topics; * preparing periodic reviews of the Bank's lending rate, liquidity policy, and allocation of net income; * preparing the sections on Bank/IDA financial position and prospects for inclusion in the annual review of the five-year program as well as for the mid-year review of operations; * preparing standard long-term financial projections for the Bank and IDA; * reviewing the changes in the quality of the Bank's overall loan portfolio; and * maintaining awareness of changes in the external financial environment. The PABFA was led by Division Chief David Bock at the time it absorbed IDA replenishment related functions. In July 1978, VPFI.P.M. Cargill was promoted to Senior Vice President of Finance (SVPFI) to further assist the Bank President more broadly on priority areas, and serve as Acting President and Board Chairman in the absence of the President. The position of Vice President of Finance (VPF) remained, and Cargill relinquished most of his responsibilities of overseeing the operations of the Finance Complex to the new VPF Moeen Qureshi. With this change, PABFA reported to the VPF, but still supported the SVPFI, who continued to lead IDA replenishment negotiations. In 1980, SVPFI I.P.M. Cargill retired from the Bank. Moeen Qureshi was promoted soon after as the new SVPFI, and retained the responsibility of leading IDA replenishment negotiations. The position of VPF was terminated. At the same time, the PABFA and the Financial Studies Division (PABFS) of Programming and Budgeting Department (PAB) were transferred to the new Financial Policy and Analysis Department (FPA), which reported directly to the SVPFI. The FPA Department was assigned the following responsibilities: * performing analytical work on Bank financial policies, and supporting the Senior Vice President, Finance in such key activities as IDA replenishment negotiations, IBRD capital increases and analyzing the financial impacts of new initiatives; * producing long-term financial projections and plans beyond a one-year horizon; * assessing and managing financial risks; and * providing support to Operations in areas involving financial analysis. The former Financial Studies Division and Programming and Budgeting Department maintained their titles in the new FPA, but their acronyms were changed to FPAFA and FPAFS, respectively. The function supporting IDA replenishment negotiations was moved to the FPAFS Division. In 1983, the FPA reported to the new Vice President of Financial Policy, Planning, and Budgeting (FPBVP). During the 1987 Bank-wide reorganization, the FPA was terminated. As a result, the FPAPP and FPAMA divisions were absorbed by the new Risk Management and Financial Policy Department (FRS), and the FPAFS, which maintained responsibility for IDA replenishment negotiations, was absorbed by the new Resource Mobilization Department (FRM). Both departments reported to the new Vice President of Financial Policy and Risk Management (FPRVP), which reported to the new Senior Vice President of Finance (FINSV) Ernest Stern. FRM was given the responsibility of securing official funding necessary to fund the Bank's planned programs. Official funding sources sought by FRM included capital subscriptions by Bank shareholders for IBRD lending operations and IDA concessional resources for its lending to countries which were not creditworthy for IBRD borrowing. Specific responsibilities included: * maintaining a positive environment for Bank funding approaches; * developing a system for monitoring funding approaches; * monitoring the adequacy of the Bank's capital and taking steps to replenish it; * managing the subscription payments and the release of local currency contributions; * replenishing IDA; * managing donor contributions to IDA's contributions; * exploring new facilities that use official funding; and * analyzing the role of Bank/IDA flows in relation to aggregate aid and commercial flows. At its inception, the FRM had the following subordinate units: the Replenishment Policy Division (FRMRP) and the Replenishment Operations Division (FRMRO). Basil Kavalasky served as Director for FRM. In 1991, the Trust Funds Administrator Kah Hie Lau was transferred from the Loan and Trusts Funds Department (LOA) of the Vice President of Controller (CTRVP) to FRM. In 1993, the Trust Funds Administrator was removed from FRM, and transferred to the Trust Funds Administration Department (CTRTA) in the Controller Vice Presidency (CTRVP). In 1996, the Vice President of Financial Policy and Risk Management (FPRVP) was terminated. As a result, the Risk Management and Financial Policy Department (FRS), was absorbed by the new Office of the Vice President Financial Policy and Institutional Strategy (FPIVP). The Resource Mobilization Department (FRM) was transferred to the new Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing Vice Presidency (RMCVP). Cofinancing, trust funds, and IDA replenishment (1996-present) In April 1996, the cofinancing, trust funds, and IDA replenishment functions were merged under the new Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing Vice Presidency (RMCVP). More specifically, the functions of the former Official Cofinancing and Trust Fund Management Group (CFSOC) and the Project Finance Group (CFSPF) of the former Vice President of Financial Intermediation and Cofinancing (CFSVP), and the functions of the Resource Mobilization Department (FRM) of the former Financial Policy and Resource Mobilization Vice Presidency (FPRVP) were absorbed by the new RMCVP. The new RMCVP was created to enable the Bank to forge a more effective partnerships with the donor community and the private sector. RMCVP focused on mobilizing funds from official and private sources to IBRD and IDA operations and services and the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). Specific responsibilities included: * expanding resource mobilization efforts to achieve greater financial sustainability through donor support, official cofinancing, export credit, and trust funds; * accelerating the implementation of the guarantee Program, expand the use of guarantees, and increase the pipelines of guarantee operations; and * supporting the Bank's efforts to mainstream the trust fund activities into the Bank's processes. At its establishment, the RMCVP consisted of the following subordinate units: the Cofinancing and Project Finance Department (CAP) and the Resource Mobilization Department (FRM). CAP consisted of the Official Cofinancing and Trust Funds Group (CAPOC) and the Project Finance and Guarantees Group (CAPPF). The FRM Department consisted of the Replenishment Operations Unit (FRMRO) and the Replenishment Policy Unit (FRMRP). CAPOC served as the main unit for cofinancing related responsibilities, which consisted of promoting and monitoring official cofinancing of Bank Group operations. CAPOC was also responsible for trust fund functions including monitoring, mobilization, and administration. Hiroo Fukui served as Vice President for RMCVP. Soon after the establishment of the RMCVP, the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, a debt restructuring trust fund, was launched. RMCVP served as trustee for this fund. In 1997, the global trust fund program, Development Grant Facility (DGF), was launched. The RMCVP also served as trustee for this fund. In 1998, the RMCVP was restructured. FRM remained unchanged, but CAP functions were divided into two new departments: the Trust Fund and Cofinancing Department (TFC) and the Project Finance and Guarantees Department (PFG). In 1999, PFG was removed from the RMCVP, and its functions were transferred to the Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Vice Presidency (PSIVP). The early 2000s marked a significant increase in the Bank's trust fund portfolio, primarily due to the 2002 launch of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). This prompted the creation of numerous global programs and partnership trust funds to respond to the international initiatives of the MDG, including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria (the Global Fund) and the Climate Investment Funds (CIFs), both established in 2002. The use of global programs and partnership existed prior to this period, most notably GEF and DGF, but their use rapidly expanded in the 2000s. Furthermore, due to the growth and increasing complexity of trust funds, this period also experienced a shift in the type of trust funds arrangements used for various funds. This included the growing use of the following types of trust fund arrangements: Financial Intermediary Funds (FIFs); Bank Executed Trust Funds (BETF); and Recipient Executed Trust Funds (RETF). FIFs, in particular, saw significant expansion foster the arrangement of complex global programs and partnership trust funds. With the changing trust fund landscape, more traditional cofinancing arrangements experienced gradual decline as a source for external funding. Cofinancing, however, still remained a component of these trust fund arrangements, and the cofinancing function was integrated into broader trust funds operations. In 2001, RMCVP was again restructured. The functions of TFC were split into two new departments: the Trust Fund Operations Department (TFO) and the Trust Fund Strategy and Donor Relations Department (TFS). FRM remained unchanged. In June 2003, the RMCVP was terminated and its functions absorbed by the new Concessional Finance and Global Partnerships Vice Presidency (CFPVP). The responsibilities of the new CFPVP included: * mobilizing and managing concessional and grant finance in the Bank; * agreeing to the policy framework with which these resources are provided by donors; and * facilitating and overseeing the robust and accountable framework of partnerships to take forward the Bank's strategic priorities. At its establishment, the CFPVP consisted of the following subordinate departments and units: the Resource Mobilization Department (FRM); the Global Programs and Partnerships (GPP); the Trust Fund Operations (TFO); the Trust Fund Strategy and Donor Relations Department (TFS); and the Multilateral Trustee Operations (MTO). Geoffrey Lamb served as Vice President of the CFPVP. In 2004, the Finance and Risk Unit (CFPFR) and the Multilateral Trustee Innovative FinanceUnit (CFPMI) were added to CFPVP. In 2006, Phillippe Le Houerou succeeded Geoffrey Lamb as Vice President for CFPVP. In 2008, the GPP and the TFO were merged to create the new Global Partnerships and Trust Fund Operations Department (CFPTO). CFPTO was assigned two subordinate units: the Global Partnership and Trust Fund Policy Unit (PTP) and the Program Administration and Management Unit (PAM). In 2009, Axel van Trotsenburg succeeded Phillippe Le Houerou as Vice President for CFPVP. Around this time, the CFPVP was reorganized into the following subordinate units: IDA Resource Mobilization (CFPIR); the Global Partnerships and Trust Fund Operations (CFPTO); and the Multilateral Trusteeship and Innovative Financing (CFPMI). In 2012, Joachim von Amsberg succeeded Axel van Trotsenburg as Vice President for CFPVP. In July 2014, the CFPVP was terminated and replaced by the new Development Finance Vice Presidency (DFIVP). The Development Finance Vice Presidency (DFIVP) absorbed the IDA replenishment, trust fund, and cofinancing related functions of the former CFPVP. It additionally absorbed functions related to IBRD capital monitoring, planning, and management from the former Vice President of Corporate Finance and Risk Management (CFRVP). The DFIVP includes the following subordinate units: the Development Finance Resource Mobilization Department (DFiRM); the Development Partner Relations Department (DFDPR); the Trust Funds and Partnerships Department (DFPTF); and the IBRD Corporate Finance Department (DFICF). Joachim von Amsberg serves as Vice President for DFIVP.
Management of World Bank records was originally undertaken according to a central filing system adopted in 1946. It included records originating from all parts of the Bank, with the exception of the records of the offices of the President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, and the Personnel and Legal departments. The records were filed in four sections: operational files by region and country; general files on all topics not specific to a region or country; membership, bond, and finance files; and official documents. From this early period, it is the "Operational Files" which are included in this fonds. In 1972, separate Regional Information Service Centers (RISCs) for the new Regional Vice Presidencies were established under the general control of the Central Files Unit. As responsibility for operations in sub-Saharan Africa was divided into separate Regional Vice Presidencies (RVPs) at this time, a RISC for each RVP was established; the East Africa Region RISC was opened in January 1973 and the West Africa Region RISC was opened in January 1974. When the two African RVPs combined in 1987, so did the two African RISCs, forming a single Africa Regional Information Service Center. Within these RISCs the records were maintained in the same basic order as they had been during the 1946-1971 period; that is, the regional general files were handled as one body of records followed by files maintained on each country. It was the responsibility of the Region and its units to regularly transfer official country and regional operational records to their RISC. In practice, however, regional front offices and the various RVP units did not always do this and would instead maintain their records on their own. By the late 1980s it became apparent that gaps in the Records Centers' holdings existed. In part to rectify this situation, the Regional units began, in 1992, to send records directly to the Archives rather than to the appropriate filing center. The "official" records of the regional operations were still required to be transferred to information centers until 1998 when all RISCS were terminated. When the RISCs were discontinued in 1998, all records-keeping responsibilities were turned over to the regional offices. According to the Bank's Administrative Manual Statement 10.11: Management of Records, "Individual units maintain custody of their active records until such time that they are either transferred to the Archives or destroyed in accordance with approved records retention and disposition schedules. The WBG Archives has custody and control over access to records over20 years old." In practice, this means that records are often transferred to the Archives at a point before they reach 20 years of age and are therefore still technically the property of the originating department even though physically they are in the care of the Archives. While the records are still less than 20 years old the originating department is able to request and use the records they have transferred to the Archives. Some of the records in the "operational records" and "Regional operational records" series were subject to archival processing in the early 1990s that resulted in new series classifications being created and ascribed. Initially, the country files from the period 1946-1971 were intellectually arranged in alphabetical order by name of country and a new series was created for each country. After the termination of the RISCs in 1998, the Archives added the 1972-1998 country files maintained in the RISCs to the files of each country from the period 1946-1971. Those records that had been transferred directly to the archives rather than to the RISCs (as described above) were not included in this exercise.
Records in this fonds were transferred to the World Bank Group Archives either directly from the responsible sector unit, or by the Records Management Section responsible for the Bank's Central Files. In the case of the former, approved records retention and disposition schedules were used. Prior to the initiation of direct transfer of records to the Archives in the 1990s, the sector forwarded their records to the Bank's centralized filing unit. Following the closure of the semi-centralized Non-Regional Information Centers (NRIC) in July 1987, the centralized records were kept at the Bank's record center until they were accessioned into the custody of the Archives in 1994. 
Most records were transferred directly to the Archives by the Human Development Network, Education Team (HDNED) and previous units between 1992 and 2014, in accordance with approved records retention schedules. Other records were maintained in the Non-Regional Information Center (NRIC) that centrally managed records created by sector departments, until its closure in 1987; these centralized files were accessioned into the Archives' holdings in 1994. Elizabeth King chronological files (1987 - 1992) were brought with her when she transferred to a new position in the Poverty and Human Resources Division (PRDPH) in 1993. In 1994, these files were sent to the Archives by PRDPH with other unit records.
Most records were transferred to the Archives by the Education and Employment Division (PHREE) and other responsible units in multiple transfers between 1992 and 2011, in accordance with approved records retention schedules. Other records were originally sent by the sector to the Bank's semi-centralized Non-Regional Information Center (NRIC); these were transferred from the NRIC to the Archives in 1994. 
Most of the pre-1990 World Conference on Education for All (WCEFA) records were initially created and maintained by the conference secretariat based at the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) headquarters in New York City. These records were transferred to the custody of the Education and Employment Division, Population and Human Resources Department (PHREE) once the division took responsibility for follow-up matters after the inaugural WCEFA conference in 1990. Records were then sent to the Bank Archives in 1992. Other records in this series were transferred by the responsible units of the education sector to the Archives in 2001 and 2007 according to approved records retention schedules.
Records were initially transferred from HROVP to the Bank's Institutional Information Services Center (IISC) prior to their transfer to the Bank's Archives. 
Management of World Bank records was originally undertaken according to a central filing system adopted in 1946. It included records originating from all parts of the Bank, with the exception of the records of the offices of the President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, and the personnel and legal departments. The records were filed in four sections: operational files by region and country; general files on all topics not specific to a region or country; membership, bond, and finance files; and official documents. From this early period, it is the "Operational Files" which are included in this fonds. In 1972, separate Regional Information Service Centers (RISCs) for the new regional vice presidencies were established under the general control of the Central Files Unit. Within these RISCs the records were maintained in the same basic order as they had been during the 1946-1971 period; that is, the regional general files were handled as one body of records followed by files maintained on each country. It was the responsibility of the Region and its units to regularly transfer their records to their RISC. In practice, however, RVPs, Country Departments, and Technical Departments did not always do this. Records were often maintained by the unit (and thus not filed according to the RISC's classification scheme) and later were transferred directly to the World Bank Group Archives rather than to the appropriate filing center. This practice of transferring directly to the World Bank Group Archives only began after 1991. The RISCs were discontinued in 1998 and all records-keeping responsibilities were turned over to the regional offices. According to the Bank's [Administrative Manual Statement 10.11: Management of Records](http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2011/09/18054966/management-records), "Individual units maintain custody of their active records until such time that they are either transferred to the Archives or destroyed in accordance with approved records retention and disposition schedules. The WBG Archives has custody and control over access to records over 20 years old." In practice, this means that records are often transferred to the Archives at a point before they reach 20 years of age and are therefore still technically the property of the originating department even though physically they are in the care of the Archives. While the records are still less than 20 years old the originating department is able to request and use the records they have transferred to the Archives. Some of the records in the "Country operational records" and "Regional operational records" series were subject to archival processing in the early 1990s that resulted in new series classifications being created and ascribed. Initially, the country files from the period 1946-1971 were intellectually arranged in alphabetical order by name of country and a new series was created for each country. After the termination of the RISCs in 1998, the Archives added the 1972-1998 country files maintained in the RISCs to the files of each country from the period 1946-1971. Those records that had been transferred directly to the archives rather than to the RISCs (as described above) were not included in this exercise. No action was taken on the general regional files (1946-1998) which were thus maintained separately.
The records in this subfonds were maintained by the Non-Regional Information Center (NRIC). The NRIC served as a centralized filing unit for the Bank, and arranged records according to Bank-wide classification schemes for the record group of administrative "central files" or "non-regional files". The NRIC served as one of multiple Information Centers for the Bank, which generally distributed the Bank's records into two main record groups: 1) general or non-regional, and 2) operational or regional. The records in this subfonds were not arranged by classification schemes or series specific to a department or division, but as a sub or sub-sub group to the larger "central files" record group. The NRIC were transferred to the custody World Bank Group Archives with the termination of NRIC in 1987. The departments described in this subfonds were assigned sub-group or series classification numbers from NRIC. The departments often supported more than one sector at a time and this is reflected by folders that contain records of more than one sector. As a result, the records of these departments have been placed in Senior Vice President of Operations (SVPOP/OPNSV) fonds, whom the departments reported to, rather than separated and dispersed into their respective sector fonds.
Clippings, speeches, press releases, biographical information, and occasional copies of letters and memoranda by and about Bank Presidents Eugene Meyer, John J. McCloy, George D. Woods, Robert S. McNamara, A.W. Clausen, and Barber C. Conable, Jr. Pre-presidential material, primarily speeches, is included for McNamara, Clausen, and Conable, and post-presidential material is included on McNamara.
Material on McNamara makes up the bulk of this collection. Clippings and speeches that were maintained in McNamara's office as a reference set during his Presidency were brought to the Library, probably by Blanche Moore, one of McNamara's assistants, who went to work for the Joint Library after McNamara retired. These items from McNamara's office formed the basis of the Joint Library collection; consequently, the materials on McNamara are far more complete than those on any of the other presidents.
The series is accompanied by an index to items within the series, arranged by President. A section of the index refersto items on Eugene Black, which are not present in the collection.
Fonds consists of chronological files compiled by McCarthy that cover nearly his entire career at the World Bank. Fonds also contains reports and articles authored by McCarthy in both draft and published form as well as records related to his attendance and participation in a number of conferences and working groups. Records related to his work for the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in 2004 and 2005 are also included.
Series includes Desmond McCarthy's chronological files covering nearly his entire career at the World Bank, beginning just prior to his transfer from the Comparative Analysis and Projections Division of the Economic Analysis and Projects Department (EPDCA) in 1983 to his time as Economic Adviser in the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DECVP) in 1998. Records generally consist of correspondence and memoranda between McCarthy and World Bank colleagues. Correspondence between McCarthy and individuals and institutions external to the Bank are included in lesser number. A significant amount of correspondence relates to the exchange of articles and reports for information, research, and review purposes; as such, articles and reports in final or draft form often accompany correspondence. Terms of Reference and back-to-office reports relating to mission travel by McCarthy and colleagues are included, as is correspondence related to work programs and research projects.
Records created during McCarthy's time as an Economist in the Latin America and the Caribbean Vice Presidency (LCN) between 1985 and 1988 are plentiful and primarily relate to his work as country economist for Argentina. Records relate to McCarthy's authorship or review of Argentina's Country Program Paper (CPP) and Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and related discussion and research on macro-economic issues including: trade, financial sector reform, public sector expenditure, economic recovery and growth, and debt management. Records also relate to a variety of new initiatives in Argentina including a Cofinancing Task Force, debt equity swaps, and a significant refinancing package. Records also include periodic economic updates on Argentina.
Records relating to McCarthy's time in the International Economic Analysis and Prospects Division (IECAP) of the International Economics Department (IEC) between 1988 and 1992 include research on and discussion of a variety of topics including: World Bank-International Monetary Fund (IMF) relationship; impacts of the 1990 Middle East crisis on development; global economic outlooks; global capital shortages; and the environment and the world economy.
Records relating to McCarthy's work as an Economic Adviser in the Development Policy Group (DPG) between 1992 and 1993 primarily relate to his contribution to and review of Country Strategy Papers (CSPs). Substantial records relating to CSPs for Kenya, Columbia, Chili, Bulgaria, Poland, and Indonesia are included in this series. Comments by McCarthy on drafts of CSPs for other countries are also included. Records relating to McCarthy's participation in Paris Club Meetings are also included.
Records relating to McCarthy's time as Economic Adviser to the Chief Economist and Development Economist Vice President (DECVP) between 1993 and 1999 primarily relate to his research efforts. Topics include: public sector expenditure; impacts of environment on trade and development economics; and guidance and review of Country Assistance Strategy papers (CAS). Briefs on a variety of topics and countries for senior DECVP staff (including Chief Economists Michael Bruno [1993-1996] and Joseph Stiglitz [1997-2000]) are also included.
Series contains reports and articles authored by McCarthy in both published and draft form. Published materials are usually contained in publications or as published reports. Articles and reports date from throughout McCarthy's employment at the World Bank, including his time as a consultant after his 1999 retirement. A small number of articles contained in this series were published while McCarthy was affiliated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the late 1970s. Topics of the articlesare wide-ranging, but generally relate to country economic profiles, consumer behavior in developing countries, and the agriculture and nutrition sectors.
Series also includes a number of reports published by the World Bank and authored by World Bank staff and consultants other than McCarthy. A small number of development-related speeches authored by individuals external to the World Bank are also included.
Records related to seminar attendance and participation by McCarthy are included in this series.Records include text and slides from presentations by both McCarthy and others. The most common topic of articles, reports, and conference materials is the environment and its effect on and role in development economics. Other topics include structural adjustment and country economic profiles.
Series relates to work Desmond McCarthy undertook as a consultant for the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in 2004 and 2005.
Series includes records relating to a quality assessment of Non-Lending Technical Assistance (NLTA) conducted by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) on which McCarthy served as a panelist in 2004. Records relating to assessments of the State Owned Bank Technical Assistance project in Romania and the Services Sector Census project in China are included. Records include background information on each project and QAG guidelines for the assessment process.
Records related to the QAG assessment of the Customs Modernization Handbook are also included in this series. The Handbook was intended to provide guidance to organizations and individuals involved in the preparation and implementation of customs modernization projects. Records include a copy of the handbook itself as well as comments on the Handbook and records related to the release and dissemination of the Handbook.
Series also includes records related to a 2003-2004 QAG review of analytical and advisory activities (AAA) primarily related to Bulgaria, including reviews of: public expenditure issues; rural development sector; Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR); and a national energy efficiency study. Records consist of background materials and guidance questionnaires: the latter often contain hand-written notes presumably made by McCarthy.
This fonds contains records related to John Nellis's work in the Public Sector Management and Private Sector Development Division (CECPS) located in the Country Economics Department (CEC) of the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC). The majority of the records relate to Nellis's participation in mission travel to the Soviet Union in 1990 and Russia in 1991 and 1992.
The records in this series primarily relate to the World Bank's involvement in the transition from planned to market economies in Russia immediately following the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Records specifically relate to missions made by Bank officials, including John Nellis, to the then Soviet Union in September and October 1990 and to Russia in November 1991 and August and September 1992. Series primarily consists of handwritten notes written by Nellis during these missions.
The 1990 mission to the Soviet Union was the World Bank's first and was undertaken with staff from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The mission resulted in the publication of the joint authored ['The Economy of the USSR: Summary and Recommendations'](http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/187491468769887526/pdf/multi-page.pdf). During the trip, John Nellis's role was to examine the prospects for enterprise reform and privatization primarily through interviews with Soviet ministries (including Ministry of Justice and various sector and union ministries), other government officials, companies, financial authorities, and academics.
Notes taken by Nellis during these interviews are included in this series. The handwritten notes are heavily annotated in Nellis's hand. A transcription of the notes is also included as is a brief summary of the trip authored by Nellis and submitted to a select number of Bank staff. Further, notes authored by Nellis for a presentation to Bank President Barber Conable are included. The presentation, dated November 10, 1990, is titled, "Soviet Economic Study: Enterprise Reform and Privatization Component" and summarizes what the mission to the Soviet Union learned about potential enterprise reform and suggests avenues for the Bank's involvement in the reform process. In addition, a World Bank Discussion Paper authored by Nellis entitled "Improving the Performance of Soviet Enterprises" is included. The paper is based on interviews undertaken by Nellis during the 1990 mission and was published in 1991.
Records relating to a second trip to Moscow by Bank officials in November 1991 are also included. The purpose of the trip was to gain knowledge about the state and its economy and advance the process of enterprise reform and privatization. Notes are, again, handwritten and heavily annotated by Nellis. The World Bank team also stopped in Hungary and notes from Nellis's meetings in Budapest are also included. A mission summary authored by Nellis entitled "Privatization in the Republic of Russia" is also included.
Records relating to a third trip to Moscow in August and September of 1992 are also included in this series. Nellis was charged with researching corporate governance and property funds. Again, records include handwritten notes made by Nellis during interviews with Russian government officials and other interested parties, both Russian and international. Topics include: economic and political developments in Russia; privatization efforts; voucher program; corporate governance; finance sector; energy sector; foreign investment; and inflation.
The series also contains a small amount of notes made by Nellis during a series of talks and meetings between May 18, 1992 and May 27, 1992. The notes appear to have come from the same notebook as the Soviet Union/Russia notes. These events include a number of Bank staff and external parties speaking on privatization in Russia and EasternEurope. A separate set of notes on a talk by World Bank staff member Qimiao Fan in April 1995 on restructuring of Russian enterprise is also included.
The topics to which the records relate reflect issues of personal interest to Nurick or issues which he handled on behalf of his clients. Records relate to the legal structure of the World Bank as an institution and of its lending operations. Records relate to litigation and specific World Bank lending projects, such as the Volta River power projects in Ghana, the Shashe project in Botswana, the Falconbridge ferronickel project in the Dominican Republic, and the Boke project in Guinea. Records also relate to administrative and personnel issues in the World Bank. A small amount of materials collected, such as publications and invitations, that relate to Nurick's time at the World Bank Group are also included.
The files consist of correspondence, reports, legal memoranda, briefs, and printed items. The topics to which the records relate reflect issues of personal interest to Nurick or issues that he handled on behalf of his clients. Records relate to the World Bank as an institution, such as the Bank's Articles of Agreement, the Bretton Woods Agreement, sovereign immunity, the International Finance Corporation, immunities and powers of the Bank, and Bank membership issues involving China, the Palestine Liberation Organization, and Iran. Also included are records relating to bond issues and finance, taxation, co-financing, and securities and investment. Some records relate to litigation, such as a Federal Communications Commission case and a case involving university tuition payments. Files on specific World Bank lending projects include records related to the [Volta River power projects](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P000834/volta-power-project?lang=en) in Ghana (including photographs), the Shashe projects in Botswana ([Shashe Engineering Project](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P000126/shashe-engineering-project?lang=en) and [Shashe Construction and Supplementary Loan Project](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P000127/shashe-construction-supplementary-loan-project?lang=en)), the [Falconbridge ferronickel project](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P006977/nickel-project-falconbridge?lang=en) in the Dominican Republic, and the [Boke UNDP Technical Assistance project](http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P001019/boke-extension-undp-technical-assistance-project?lang=en) in Guinea. Records also relate to personnel issues, such as staff rights and obligations, garnishment, and staff compensation.
The files primarily consist of correspondence to and from Nurick, and drafts of correspondence, reports and other records. The chronological files kept by Nurick capture a variety of topics, related both to Bank work and to personal activities. As the correspondence was captured chronologically, each folder contains records relating to a large variety of (and sometimes unrelated) topics, activities or events. Researchers looking for records related to specific topics, activities or events may need to review all records within the Series using dates as a guideline. The correspondence relates, but is not limited, to: member contributions; membership (including origin of Part 1 and Part 2 countries); Bank subscription increases; bond issues; borrowing and loans to various countries; co-financing; IDA replenishments; Bank financial statements; valuation of capital; arrears and settlement of foreign claims; International Finance Corporation matters; Loan Committee; Development Committee; Joint Ministerial Committee; Bank IDA Statutory Committees; Disbursement Committee; selection of Robert McNamara; the Arab boycott; administrative and other personnel matters, including litigation, Administrative Tribunal and appeals; procurement guidelines; relations with other organizations and the US government; Second Committee of the UN; EEC Special Action Programme; and many others.
Series contains published materials and other items related to Lurick's work at the World Bank Group. Materials appear to have been selected by Nurick as personal mementos. Included are fourteen copies of the Bank's in-house staff publication International Bank Notes that contain mention of Nurick and his work or celebrate various anniversaries of the Bank. Also included are three copies of an IBRD Office of Information's press clippings compilation from May 1959 in which Nurick is mentioned. Materials related to a trip Nurick made to Japan in 1971 are included as are invitations for Nurick's attendance at a variety of events. Finally, an inscribed copy of a personal memoir by Bank colleague Davidson Sommers titled "Recollections" is included in this series.
The papers cover the period of Schmidt's service with the US Treasury and include his files on his dissertation. Both the Treasury and the dissertation materials include subject files; some topics overlap; all concern Brazil exclusively. The files do not include materials on either the Bretton Woods conference or his work at the World Bank.
Schmidt obtained and translated many official Brazilian government documents for the Treasury Department. These translations are found both in a general translationfile and in subject files.
The files are of interest primarily to students of the economic history of Brazil.
Fonds consists of Sidney Chernick's chronological files from his time in numerous World Bank departments, including: the Policy, Planning and Program Review Department (PPPRD); Country Policy Department (CPD); South Asia Country Programs Department (ASADR); and the Economic Development Institute (EDI). Chronological files contain few gaps and appear to have functioned as Chernick's personal record of outgoing correspondence.
Series consists of chronological files created during Chernick's time as Division Chief, Senior Advisor, and Acting Director of the Policy, Planning and Program Review Department (PPPRD) between 1972 and 1982. Chronological files contain correspondence in different formats; carbon copies of correspondence sent by Chernick are the most common, while paper copies and telexes are also included. The amount of outgoing correspondence, authored by Chernick, is far more substantial than correspondence received byChernick. While much of the correspondence refers to attachments (reports, country program papers [CPPs], meeting minutes, etc.), very few are included in the files.
Records related to Chernick's role as Division Chief of PPPRD's Program Review Division (PPRPR) from 1973 to 1976 are numerous. The Division's primary roles were to provide guidelines for economic analysis in economic reports and country programs and review CPPs before their submission to the President in order to ensure quality and consistency with the Bank's development objectives. CPPs are confidential reports authored by the regional departments, usually on an annual basis. They include a discussion of a given country's political and economic situation and a history of the Bank's loans and external financing and on that basis propose a five-year lending program for the country. Other, special studies (usually discussing a specific sector within a country or a general development issue) and economic reports were also reviewed by the PPPRD. Chernick's role was to manage his Division's review of CPPs and to arrange Regional Vice Presidents (RVP) meetings and Management Review meetings. As such, correspondence includes: assignment of reviews; schedule of review meetings; discussion of reviews; and policy development and explanation.
Series also consists of correspondence relating to the development and revision of Operational Manual Statements (OMSs). Assignment of tasks related to OMSs is included as are a small amount of OMS drafts and comments on drafts.
Records related to a Working Group on Bank/Fund Collaboration are found in this series. This includes Bank President McNamara's initial request for a report. Chernick's role in the research and writing of this report is unclear; he is copied on related correspondence and drafts were sent to him for review.
Chernick played a significant role in the Development Committee between 1980 and 1982. Created in 1974, the Committee was designed to provide a focal point at a high political level in the structure of economic cooperation for the formation of a comprehensive overview of international activities in the development area, for efficient and prompt consideration of development issues and for coordination of international efforts to deal with problems of financing development. Drafts of Committee meeting agendas are included; in some cases, these drafts are sent from Chernick, as Acting Director of PPPRD, to Bank President McNamara. Correspondence related to scheduling and Committee reviews and projects is also included.
Records in this series relate to a variety of other topics and activities, including: staff hiring and reviews; staff meetings; mission planning; work programs; conference participation and planning; and policy development related to Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs). Also included are: regular summaries of Board meetings authored by Chernick for Hollis Chenery, Vice President of Development Policy (DPS); ad hoc reports and reviews created by Chernick or his staff for superiors within the Development Policy Vice Presidency (DPS) and externally; comments on reports; and a small amount of correspondence related to the research and publication of Chernick's book The Commonwealth Caribbean: The Integration Experience (1978).
Series consists of chronological files created during Chernick's time as Assistant Director of the Country Policy Department (CPD). The type of activities undertaken by Chernick in the CPD was quite similar to those during his years in PPPRD and, consequently, the types of records are also very similar. The majority of the records consist of correspondence in the form of carbon copies, paper copies, and telexes. Nearly all correspondence was authored by Chernick and there is very little incoming correspondence. Reports sometimes accompany correspondence or are included in the files without accompanying correspondence.
Records relating to country program papers (CPPs) are included in this series, but not in great number. Records generally discuss the scheduling of Regional Vice Presidents (RVP) and Management Review meetings. In addition, Chernick served as Secretariat of the Operations Policy Subcommittee (OPSC). The OPSC was also involved in the review of CPPs and records related to the OPSC in this seriesdiscuss this activity.
Series also consists of regular status reports on Structural Adjustment Lending (SAL) and Program Lending (PL) operations. Other SAL-related records are included, such as Proposed Structural Adjustment Loan and Related Technical Assistance Project reports and SAL Progress Reports.
Between 1982 and 1983, Chernick was on the Steering Group Committee for the Bank's 'Pioneers' of development economics lecture series. His responsibilities included booking guests/speakers, making announcements, booking rooms, and planning Steering Group Committee meetings. Records related to these activities are included in this series.
Records in this series also relate to a variety of other topics and activities, including: seminar attendance and planning; Department retreat planning; and publication of country Economic Memoranda. Other records include: Terms of Reference for Country and Economic and SAL Supervision missions; comments by Chernick on reports and project proposals; Country Economic and Sector Work quality control reports; and administrative and staffing records.
Series consists of chronological files created during Chernick's time as Senior Economist in the South Asia Country Programs Department (ASADR). The majority of the files consist of correspondence in the form of carbon copies, printed copies, and telexes. Records reflect various activities undertaken by Chernick, including: research; commenting on Bank research and policy papers and project and loan reports; writing of country program papers (CPPs); staffing of ASADR; information sharing; and seminar planning. A small number of reports are included in this series; these include: Current and Mid-Term Assessment of South Asian Countries; Indicative Statements of Economic and Sector Work for the South Asia Region; Disbursement Estimates; and Country Reports. There is, notably, a significant amount of material related to a problematic Maldives Country Report from 1986.
Series consists of chronological files created during Chernick's time as Advisor on Senior Policy Seminars in the Economic Development Institute (EDI). The majority of the files consist of correspondence in the form of carbon copies, printed copies, and telexes; a small number of draft reports accompany the correspondence. Records primarily relate to the development and planning of Senior Policy Seminars and their evaluation. Records related to the development and planning of seminars include: correspondence with potential seminar leaders and attendees; Terms of Reference related to Chernick's trips to plan or oversee seminars; back-to-office reports; reports to other members of EDI describing planned seminars; suggestions for, and discussions of, potential seminar topics; activity briefs; and logistics. Records related to the evaluation of seminars include: Terms of Reference for Impact Evaluation of EDI activities; a draft of a seminar evaluation package; blank evaluation questionnaires; and EDI EvaluationPolicy Committee meeting records (including a report on the Committee itself [1987]).
Other records include: a report on the World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program (1987); Chernick's proposed work program for 1987; materials related to World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program meetings; a report authored by Chernick entitled A Briefing Note on Foreign Exchange Risk (1985); reports and correspondence discussing the relationship between OED and EDI; EDI submissions to the World Bank Annual Report (submitted by Chernick); materials related to EDI Advisory Board meetings; and materials related to EDI Senior Staff meetings.
The countries included in the Africa region (AFR) have remained constant throughout its history, with the exception being the removal of northern African countries (Egypt, Libya, Algeria, Tunisia, and Morocco) into the Europe and Middle East Department (EME) in 1965. These countries have since remained in regional units responsible for Middle East countries. Records related to operations in these countries are not included in this fonds.
This fonds has been provisionally arranged into 13 series. Sub-headings are used to break up the content of this field according to provisional series. For a complete list of the provisional series, see the "System of Arrangement" field.
Operational records: The majority of the records in this fonds are country operational records. The records in the "operational records" series broadly consist of project records relating to the negotiation and administration of loans as well as general country records relating to economic and sector study. These records were created by Area Departments (1947-1972), Country Departments (CDs, 1972-1997) and Country Management Units (CMUs, 1997-2010) as well as the Economic Department (1946-1952), Technical Operations Department (TOD, 1952-1965), Projects Department (1965-1972) and regional project departments (1972 - 1987), technical departments (1987 - 1997), and sector departments (1997 - 2010). See the "Administrative history" field for a history of these units and their functions.
Records related to the Bank's projects overseen by AFR are contained in the "operational records" series. These records relate to investment, structural adjustment, and other development projects financed, co-financed, and / or managed by the Bank. Note that projects funded or co-funded by external bodies such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), national governments, and trust funds but which were executed by the Bank are included.
Records relating to all phases of the World Bank Project Cycle, from conception through negotiation and completion,are found here. Project records contained in this fonds were created by both the unit identified as the designated record keeping unit within the Region and, in smaller number, the regional units that provided project support. Included are records relating to not only completed projects but also to abandoned (or dropped) projects (i.e. projects that were abandoned in the course of preparation or that failed to gain Board approval) and suspended projects (i.e. approved projects, including those partially disbursed, which were suspended and not resumed). Records related to the discussion and negotiation of projects that were never initiated are also included.
Correspondence files make up the bulk of the project records and relate to the identification, preparation, appraisal, negotiation, approval, supervision, fund disbursement, completion, and review of each individual project. Correspondence is in the form of letters, printed email, memoranda, telexes, and faxes. Accompanying materials most often include aide-memoires, minutes of meetings, Terms of Reference, and back-to-office reports. Correspondence is between the Bank and government officials, ambassadors, institutions, contractors, and consultants.
Project records may also include: Project Implementation Index File (PIIF) documents; executive project summary/project concept documents; annual progress reports; supplemental documents; Project Completion Reports (PCRs, also known as Completion Reports); consultant reports; supervision reports; and final versions of mandatory reports. A small amount of project-related newspaper clippings, financial statements, photographs, hand-written notes, maps, engineering plans, and copies of loan agreements and related documents may also be found. External documents received from borrowers, governments, contractors, consultants, etc., including studies, reports, plans, specifications, PIIF documents, etc., are also included.
General country files are also included in the "operational records" series. These refer to correspondence (often in the form of chronological files), topical and subject files, and other records related to IBRD/IDA lending programs, other than those maintained for individual loans and credits. Records relate to economic, social, and sector work study, research, analysis, and the development of sector and country programs, policies, and strategies. Specifically, these records might relate to: capital markets; indebtedness; investment law; missions to the country; technical assistance; disbursement; government relations; inquiries; local bond issues; cofinancing; consultative groups; aid groups; country liaison; resident representatives; Country Program Papers (CPP) preparation; and Project Implementation Review (PIR). Records relating to and filed according to the various sectors of investment are also included. In each series, country sector files may include but are not limited to: agriculture; education; energy; industrial development and finance; industry; population; health; nutrition; telecommunications; tourism; transportation; urban development; water and sewage; governance; public sector development; private sector development; and social development. General country file records take the form of correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, notes for files, back-to-office reports, aide-memoires, briefing papers, and reports. Records relating to other analytical and advisory activities (AAA) and the related collection of data for these activities may also be included. These records may include research material in the form of surveys and spreadsheets and guides created or used for analysis or processing of data.
Country-specific records relating to country program management are also included in the "operational records" series. These records were maintained primarily by the Country Department headquarter units and were used to document Bank Group assistance planning and strategy for each country. Records may relate to the creation of Bank reports such as: the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); Country Briefs; Country Strategy Papers; Country Economic Memoranda; Medium Term Framework Papers; and policy statements. These records take the form of: agendas; briefings and reports of country team meetings; final versions of reports; consultant reports on specific sector or project issues; meeting summaries and notes; and background materials used in the preparation of reports. Briefing papers prepared for Annual Meetings and other reports to management may also be included.
Also included are informational records related to each country and to development issues specific to that country. Many of the topics covered in these records are focused on the various development sectors. These records primarily contain externally created reference material, although a small amount of internally generated material (such as press releases, speeches and addresses, and material related to internally sponsored conferences and seminars) may also be included. Reference materials may include: lists of government officials; information on external consultants; newspaper clippings related to country matters; press releases related to Bank and country activities; correspondence with government officials and/or ministries; and documents related to the activities of field offices in the country. Also included, in small amounts, are books, journals, magazines, articles, extracts, directories, manuals, handbooks, guides, and dissertations originating from elsewhere in the Bank Group or of external origin. Topics include common development sectors (agriculture, transportation, education, etc.) as they relate to specific countries as well as: resettlement; indigenous peoples; participation; Global Environment Facility (GEF); World Bank operation policies; country politics, legislation and economic situation; debt; cofinancing and trust funds; and natural resource management.
Regional operational records related to the Africa Region are also included in this fonds. Included are the records of projects or programs that span more than a single country, such as the founding of new regional banks, the establishment of a common market, tourism projects, and the creation of regional infrastructure, such as roads, ports, electric power generation and telecommunications. Records relating to the Region's participation in interrelated development activities that have been aggregated into a coordinated development program are also included. These include, for example, the Onchocerciasis Control Programme and the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program (SSATP). The types of project-related records are similar to those described in the country operational records above. Also included are general records related to economic, social and sector work study and analysis and the development of sector and regional programs, policies, and strategies. In terms of topic and form, these records are also similar to the general operational records described above. However, records relate to either the region as a whole or to multi-country areas of the region.
Project auditing:Series contains records relating to the regular auditing of Bank-funded projects in the Africa region conducted by the Operational Quality and Knowledge (AFTQK) department within AFR. Records primarily contain audit reports produced by external firms but may also contain: correspondence; project appraisal documents; legal agreements; and implementation completion reports.
Departmental subject files, reference materials, and correspondence files: Non-country specific reference materials and subject files maintained by regional departments including both country departments and sector units are included in this fonds. Topics include the various development sectors as well as Bank operational topics such as: policy development; project identification; project procurement; consultants; exports; macroeconomic stability and growth; and private sector assessment. Reference materials may originate from elsewhere within the Bank or external to the Bank and may include: books; journals; magazines; newspaper clippings; articles; extracts, directories; manuals; handbooks; guides; Bank reports; and dissertations. Subject files related to sector-related organizations are also included. These records may include: reports published or disseminated by associations; correspondence between the Bank and organizations; meeting related records; and coordination records.
External aid coordination: Series consists of records relating to the development and implementation of strategies for cofinancing and other instances of aid coordination. Records originate in country and sector departments and relate to cooperative relationships between the Bank Group and donors, cofinanciers, development agencies, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and other concerned organizations. Specifically, records may relate to: collaborative development assistance; Bank-sponsored seminars and conferences; cofinancing and trust funds; the Special Program for Assistance (SPA) in Africa; the Consultant Trust Fund Program (CTFP); and external funding for consultants. Records may include: copies of agreements and other legal documents; initiating briefs; reports and memoranda concerning disbursement of cofinanced funds; periodic reports to cofinanciers; and other related materials. Series also contains correspondence files of the Regional Cofinancing Advisor. Records were created while the position was held by Philip Birnham (1985 to 1995) and by Alison Rosenberg (1995 to 1998). The records relate to overall coordination of cofinancing forthe Africa Region and, specifically, to the Special Program of Assistance (SPA) for Africa.
The series also contains records documenting the establishment, proceedings and activities of the consultative groups and aid groups convened and chaired by the Bank to coordinate external financial assistance and which the Bank provided secretarial support to. These include consultative groups for Nigeria (1962), Sudan (1963), Ghana (sponsored by Bank from 1970 after participation under IMF sponsorship since 1967), East Africa (1968), Ethiopia (1971), Zaire - Democratic Republic of Congo (1971), Tanzania (1977), Uganda (1978), Zambia (1978), Mauritius (1980), Somalia (1983), Sao Tome and Principe (1984), Senegal (1984), Zambia (1984), Mauritania (1985), Gambia (1986), Madagascar (1986), Malawi (1986), Mozambique (1987), Guinea (1987), Zimbabwe (1992), Eritrea (1994), Sierra Leone (1994), Angola (1995), and Cote d'Ivoire (1995). Many of the consultative groups typically met bi-annually for several successive years or for longer than a decade such as Nigeria and Tanzania with Bank staff leading smaller sector or local consultative meetings in between the bi-annual group meetings. Files contain a large body of correspondence between the country department staff, the chairman who was typically the Area or Country Director for consultative groups, and donor members of the groups including the recipient country. Correspondence includes copies of outgoing memoranda and letters, cables, original letters from member government officials (some addressed to the Bank President), notes to the file, minutes of pre-consultative group meetings, sector, and/or local meetings, and drafts of documents. Topics covered by the correspondence include policies and practices of the consultative groups; its origins and establishment; changes in membership or participation; pledges and terms of aid by donor countries; and collaboration with International Monetary Fund and other multilateral participants or observers.
Also included are the set of official meeting documents of the earliest Bank-chaired Consultative Groups for Sudan and Nigeria and other countries aforementioned that contain: preliminary meeting summaries, notice of meeting, agenda, list of delegates, Bank-authored or government authored memoranda or economic reports and policy papers, Chairman's report of proceedings, transcripts or verbatim proceedings, participants statements, and press release. Meeting files also contain small amount of administrative correspondence authored bySecretary's department or the Area or Country Department concerning meeting preparations, distribution of documents, or announcements about participants in attendance of the meetings.
There is also a smaller volume of files relating to donor meetings or investor conferences chaired by the department, and consultative meetings or roundtables chaired by other organizations outside of the Bank including Organization for Economic Development (OECD) and United Nations Development Program (UNDP) in which the Bank participated beginning in the early 1970s. These include (but are not limited to) Central African Republic, Burundi, Benin, Cape Verde, Sao Tome and Principe, Guinea-Bissau, Rwanda, Lesotho, Togo and Mali.
Participation in external working and policy groups, committees, and other organizations: Series consists of records related to AFR staff participation in committees, task forces, working and policy groups, and other organizations external to, but in some cases sponsored by, the World Bank. Many of these organizations focus on regional cooperation, development, and research, such as the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC), the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA), the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR), and the Global Coalition for Africa (GCA). Records may relate to administration, membership, and activities of organization, and the work or research undertaken or sponsored by the organization.
VP Subject files: Series contains records relating to a variety of activities of which the Office of the Africa Vice President are responsible or involved. These include: public relations; borrower feedback; VP reorganization; and VP unit evaluation and organization. The records include correspondence and internal memoranda related to the various activities, as well as country and thematic briefs and meeting materials. Records related to the Region's participation in and leadership of the joint World Bank-IMF Africa Club for staff are included. Asmall amount of audio visual material in the form of video and audio tapes are also included in this series. They include recordings of interviews, meetings, and social and cultural events. A small amount of records also relate to the visit of World Bank senior staff, including World Bank presidents, to African countries and meetings held with country leaders during these trips.
VP Correspondence: Series includes the chronological files of a number of AFR Vice Presidents, including: Vice President Edward Jaycox (1991-1996); jointly Jean-Louis Sarbib and Callisto Madavo (1996-1997, during which time the two shared the position of AFR Vice President); Gobind Nankani (2004-2007); and Obiageli Ezekwesili (2007-2008). Chronological files of the VP front office and individual front office staff are also included.
Series contains the "Commodity files" of Barend de Vries, Chief Economist for the Western Africa Department and Region between 1970 and 1975. Included are copies of memos and reports relating to international and regional production and pricing of various commodities. Also included are Bank produced reports on commodity trade and price trends and price forecasts as well as papers on population and family planning programs for Africa.
Departmental Communications and Support: Series relates to the activities of AFR departments asked, usually on an ad hoc basis, to respond to correspondence addressed to World Bank Group presidents, regional Vice Presidents, and other staff members.
Series also consistsof briefing books prepared for senior officials in preparation for visits to African countries as well as for participation in meetings, seminars, and speeches. Briefing books were created by AFR units including VP front office staff and were prepared for AFR senior officials as well as for other senior Bank staff including World Bank presidents and Executive Directors. These books commonly contain: program of country visit; background profiles on country leaders and officials; talking points; country overview; World Bank Group activities; visit and meeting briefs; project meeting briefs; and other World Bank authored reports which serve as background information. In some files, travel information accompanies or is part of the briefing books. A small amount of photographs of dignitaries and bank senior officials documenting their visits to resident missions is also included.
Business plan and budget management records: Series includes records relating to the business plan and budget management (i.e. planning, implementation, monitoring, and review) activities of the Region. These records include annual budget files created by the Region's budget and administrative units as well as Business Plans covering three-year periods and Retrospective and Mid-Year Reviews. Records relating to the budgets of country and technical departments are included primarily in the form of correspondence and budget reports and tools. Budget records created by the Regional VP, Country Departments, and the Regional Resource Management and Information Technology Department (AFTRM) are included.
Department directors' chronological files: Chronological files created and maintained by AFR country department directors and technical department directors are included in this series. These may include incoming and outgoing correspondence, copies of reports, and copies of other records created or received within the unit.
Procurement policy, assessment, review, and training: Series contains records related to the regional oversight of procurement for goods and services needed for operational work. Activities include the review and audit of procurement activities. Procurement audits and review evaluate: project preparation procedure with regard to procurement; internal regional procedures; country procurement practices; and other activities. Records also consist of correspondence and documents relating to the review of ongoing project procurement activities.
Records also consist of background correspondence and documents relating to the formulation of Country Procurement Assessment Reports (CPAR). Records related to procurement training activities are also included.
Management and oversight of unit functions: Records relating to the management and oversight of the Region's country and technical departments' functional responsibilities, work program, and policy development are included in this fonds. Topics may include: work program development; unit policy and procedures; agency structure and organization; management improvement studies; coordination and direction; departmental reviews; regional objectives and operational directives; and staffing. Records may include: work program agreements and monthly reports; research program materials; various task force records including some final reports; unit reviews; management team meeting records; management retreats; records related to the 1987 and 1991 reorganizations of the operations complex and subsequent reorganization of the Technical Departments; and general correspondence.
Series also includes records maintained in the Region's front office relating to the activities and management of the Region's field offices. Records may include: correspondence; reports; Terms of Reference; establishment agreements; audit reports; and contracts. Records may relate to administrative matters such as: renovation; security; inventory; capital budget; audits; and local staff.
The fonds contains records predominantly created between 1972 and 2006 by Education Sector units. A small portion of records that date from the 1960s are external reports and other material used for reference by department staff. While sector records were maintained in the Bank-wide centralized filing system from the early years of operations in the 1940s until mid-1987 and some of these records remain part of the Central Files fonds, departments often kept separate working files. It is primarily the working files of the education sector that comprise the records in this fonds, along with records created after 1987 when recordkeeping responsibilities were turned over to the records-creating offices. See the arrangement note below for more information about the centralized files.
The records reflect the range of functional responsibilities within the sectors of education, employment, and training: including: producing studies and publications; policy and best practice development; operational support to theregions regarding Bank projects and quality review; maintaining Bank partnerships and sponsorship of joint programs with United Nations agencies and other organizations; managing and monitoring global trust funds; and participation or organization of conferences, training, and other learning events.
Series consists of records created and maintained by the front office of the Human Development Network, Education Team (HDNED) and predecessor units between 1964 and 2013, beginning with the Education Department (EDP) in existence from 1968 to 1972. The records document management oversight and strategic planning; directing research, policy work, and sector programs; managing the Bank's relationship with external partners in the sector; and, to a lesser extent, donor coordination activities. The records also provide information about the units' structure and communication between the director and advisers in the front office. The department's front office initially consisted of a senior adviser, economic adviser, implementation adviser, training adviser and education adviser from at least 1968 until the creation of the functional units, later divisions, under the Education Department (EDC) beginning in July 1977. The Training Unit (EDCTR) was established in 1977 followed in July 1983 by the Education Research Program (EDCRS), Education Operational Policy Program (EDCOP), and Education Project Related Training Program. The units were elevated to divisions in 1985 led by division chiefs and acronyms were changed. This structure changed again in the 1987 Bank-wide reorganization and the formation of the Population and Human Resources Department, Education and Employment Division (PHREE).
Records cover the tenure of the following directors: Duncan Ballantine (tenure 1964 - 1977); Aklilu Habte (1977 - 1987); WadiD. Haddad (1987 - 1988); Maris O'Rourke (1995 - 2000); Ruth Kagia (2001 - 2008), and Elizabeth (Beth) M. King (2009 - 2014). There is a gap in the records of directors and managers between 1989 and 1994. The tenures of O'Rourke and Kagia are the most widely represented. Between 2000 and early 2001, Senior Advisers Bruno LaPorte and Marlaine Lockheed served as acting directors, and they are also creators of records in this series.
The series is comprised of subject files, chronological files, and a small number of briefing books for the Bank's senior officials. A sizeable portion of the subject file records reflect the development and oversight of the sector's policy, research, and training programs and activities, particularly in the early period between 1965 and 1988. The earliest records consist of correspondence and data sheets related to diversified secondary curriculum (Discus) projects (1964 - 1976).
Education policy: The series includes records related to the preparation, dissemination, and promotion (1974 - 1980) of the 1979 Education Sector Policy ([PUB2680](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/366981468182955979/education-sector-policy)). Files were created and accumulated by EDC Director Aklilu Habte, Implementation Adviser David H. Lewis, Senior Adviser Mats Hultin, and others. There is some overlap amongst these files maintained by various personnel in EDC with separate roles in the development of the policy paper. Internal memoranda are between senior management and staff, regional educational divisions, and other Bank staff regarding comments on the sector paper and internal discussions on developing stronger policy for the sector, and discussion on work program and priorities. There are also cables and incoming and outgoing letters with colleagues external to the Bank documenting their collaboration on reviewing the drafts and responses to external requests for policy information and previous publications.
The policy paper correspondence is filedwith draft outlines, data tables, preliminary and final drafts of chapters for discussion, Policy Review Committee revised version and committee minutes, list of commenters including a summary of seminars and discussions held on the draft, draft foreward prepared for President McNamara, summary of Board discussion on sector policy paper, copy of the bound publication issued September 1979 and a copy of the earlier sector policy paper published in 1974.
The Education Sector Policy dissemination and promotion records include: prepared remarks by Habte (October, 1979); memoranda regarding discussion of the policy at a regional senior staff meeting; draft and final board paper on cooperation between the World Bank and other organizations in the education sector in follow up to the sector paper; copies of press releases in English, Spanish, French, and Arabic; and copies of articles, journal and book reviews, and editorials documenting reactions to the policy. There is also a substantive 1980 report submitted by Wadi D. Haddad to Habte, summarizing procedures followed in the preparation of paper, consultations, policy gaps and procedure for future policy work, and proposal for a policy information system.
The sector policy files also include reference to the External Advisory Panel appointed by President McNamara in 1977 to review the status of education in the developing world including the Bank's education and training projects and recommend areas for future action. Files contain copies of memoranda from Vice President, Central Projects Warren C. Baum to Vice President of Operations (SVPOP) Ernest Stern regarding the panel report which contains Stern's notations. There is also correspondence addressed to panel Chair David Bell, Ford Foundation detailing external individual's comments on the 1978 panel report and items for discussion with the panel prepared by Habte.
Other records relate to the Task Force on Issues and Strategies for Meeting Needs of High-Level Agricultural Training in Africa (1986 - 1987) including Terms of Reference, meeting summaries, draft and final reports, and draft report and progress report regarding the Special Program for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR) initiated by the Bank to bring together multilateral and bilateral donors to develop a special program on agriculture research. These records were mostly accumulated by Education Policy Division (EDTPD) Operations Adviser Ralph W. Harbison and EDTPD Agriculture Education and Training Adviser J. Price Gittinger.
Sub-Saharan Africa education policy: Records also relate to the development, collaboration, and dissemination of the Bank's Sub-Saharan Africa education policy paper (1982 - 1988). Background preparation included the formation of an External Advisory Panel to advise on the policy paper. There are memoranda between Habte, Haddad, Policy Division Senior Economist Peter R. Moock and Adviser J. Price Gittinger concerning Gittinger's attendance at a meeting of donor agency representatives to discuss the implications for donors of education in sub-Saharan Africa. There are also: Terms of Reference and other records related to a meeting of the advisory panel and seminar program in Dijon, France in 1985 attended by Habte and other staff from EDT, the Regions and other Bank divisions; Dijon meeting background reports and World Bank Staff Working Papers by various authors; consultants' papers, and back-to-office report (BTOR). Other records are related to the African ministers of education meeting in 1987 attended by PHREE Division Chief Haddad, and conference of European donors to education in 1987 attended by Moock that includes a conference report and BTOR.
Correspondence and other items also pertain to the dissemination of the Sub-Saharan African education policy paper largely handled by Moock. There are letters to government officials from Wadi Haddad Chief, Education and Employment Division, (PHREE). 1987. The paper issued in 1988 was titled ["Education in Sub-Saharan Africa: policies for adjustment, revitalization, and expansion".](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/816101468009945118/education-in-sub-saharan-africa-policies-for-adjustment-revitalization-and-expansion).
Project Related Training program and other training seminars and activities: The series contains records of the front office and divisions (1980 - 1987) regarding training programs and seminars organized by the sector, some in collaboration with other Bank divisions. Records primarily document staff training programactivities of the Project Related Training Division (EDTPT, in existence 1983 - 1986). Most of these records were maintained by the front office for reference purposes and contain copies of training material.
There are several seminar files that contain a schedule or agenda, list of participants, course materials consisting of concept papers and case studies, and evaluation form. Topics of seminars include issues in education projects, tools for sector analysis, financing of education, education policy analysis, mass communication, and others. Three training files relate to a staff seminar on preparation and design of project-supported institutional development components and contain handouts, outlines, exercises, case studies, and evaluation form. There are also draft seminar modules for a seminar in agriculture projects, project related training and institutional development in agricultural lending training material, BTORs of senior training advisers, and announcement memoranda to other Bank departments.
Records of Senior Adviser Richard K. Johanson, Director's Office (EDTDR) and others contain reports in the form of memoranda addressed to division chiefs including evaluation report on staff seminars and training, and summary of a Bank seminar on the quality of education in development countries with a list of consultants and credentials, agenda, session outline, and keynote address. Also included are a seminar report, background papers and externally printed material on a school quality and education project management course developed under Implementation Adviser Adriaan Verspoor.
Research program: A small volume of research program records relate to the International Fund for Education Research (IFER, 1973 - 1984). Included are internal memoranda within the Education Research Program unit (EDCRS), BTORs, Terms of Reference, and outgoing letters from EDC Senior Sociologist and later Chief, Education and Training Design Division, Education Development Institute, Stephen Heyneman. Correspondence discusses budget allocation, paper proposals, financial assistance to countries, and comments on the education research strategy paper.
There is a large bound volume of correspondence (1973 - 1979) consisting mostly of internal memoranda of Senior Adviser Mats Hultin and copies accumulated including memoranda from Vice President Ernest Stern to President McNamara regarding the Bank Group research program and education research activities. Memoranda is also addressed to Director Ballantine including an original memo from the Development Policy vice president. Draft research project papers (RPO), Board reports, and project proposals are also filed in the volume.
Also included is a file on a joint United Nations Educational, Scientific, Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Bank education study with background papers (1973).
Knowledge and information products: Series contains World Bank Education Newsletters (WBEN, 1986 - 1987) issued beginning in April 1986 to report on challenges of education investment and Bank efforts to support education. The newsletters were edited by EDTDR Senior Adviser Richard K. Johanson. The newsletters inform about news of country policies, summary of education projects, recent papers and books published, education research updates, and policy notes features. The file also contains memoranda from Johanson.
A retreat file contains background papers and publications that are mostly external.
HDNED Subject files: Also included in this series are subject files maintained by Human DevelopmentNetwork, Education Team (HDNED) Directors O'Rourke and Kagia from 1995 to 2004 mostly relating to unit activities and programs and the strategic direction of the sector and its partnerships and global programs. A single item dated 1973 is a copy of an education project appraisal in Costa Rica found in the 2002 file pertaining to education and technology. Correspondence includes mainly internal memoranda, letters, and hard copy emails. There are memoranda from Kagia to the Bank managing director regarding partnership proposals and hard copy emails concerning the arrangement and proceedings of meetings. Other records filed with the correspondence are internal draft and final reports or concept papers, some annotated; report outlines; agenda, list of participants and reports from various conferences; Poverty Reduction Strategy papers (PRSP); lists and inventory of Human Development Network (HDN) and partnerships; education action plans outlining country information and goals and progress; press releases; and speeches. Topics covered in the files include but are not limited to: Dakar World Conference outcomes; sector lending; grant and trust funds for education; partnership selectivity and oversight; and user fees.
Several subject files relate to the Education for All Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) program and reflect the sector director's support to, or representation at, high level program or partnership meetings, conferences, and working groups. Records include a briefing note and talking points for Bank President Wolfensohn prepared by Kagia, meeting summaries of the G-8 Education Task Force and PRSP Task Force, and committee activities and comments regarding an EFA concept note and financing paper. Also included is a file on the EFA-FTI donors meeting (2002-2003) coordinated by the sector director's office which contains correspondence prepared for the vice president, HDN regarding FTI funding and donor pledges, presentations, agenda, list of participants, and draft summary of discussion and agreements.
Other HDNED subject files relate to the delivery of presentations or addresses given by the director at Bank meetings or externally organized events. Several of these files contain transparency slides and, occasionally, the hard copy presentation and notes on topics such as the Bank's role and strategy for education (1998).
HDNED Director chronological files: Series also consists of mostly outgoing chronological correspondence records that reflect the wide range of management and liaison functions of MarisO'Rourke (HDD senior advisor and later HDNED director, tenure 1995 - 2000), HDNED Director Ruth Kagia (2001 - 2008) and HDNED Director Elizabeth (Beth) M. King (2009 - 2014). There is a gap in correspondence in 2008 which could be the result of Kagia's promotion to country director in the Africa Regional Vice Presidency in August 2008. King's correspondence as director covers her tenure only until 2013.
Correspondents within the records include other Education Sector colleagues, Bank staff in the regions and the Office of External Relations, government officials, United Nations agency officials, and representatives of other external organizations. The correspondence covers various topics such as: visits with education professionals and academics; responses to invitations to conferences and UN governance meetings; comments on external education reports and initiatives; proposals for collaboration or Bank funding; external projects in member countries; small grants program; supervision of project components; sector strategy concept paper and sector policy; research projects; consultants' activities; staffing; adult learning, girls education, and other thematic areas; database development; the Education for All (ETA), Fast Track Initiative (ETA-FTI) and the Bank's Learning for All programs, and ETA-FTI successor, the Global Partnership for Education (GPE).
Correspondence is in the form of all-in-1 notes and email hard copies and incoming and outgoing letters and is sometimes filed with various records such as: trust fund agreement copies; draft and final discussion papers; program or study proposals; meeting or conference agenda and outlines; BTORs; summaries of meetings or conferences attended; speeches and statements; curriculum vitae (CVs); copies of external articles; United Nations agency reports; and other external annual reports.
The series also contains external correspondence files (2000 - 2007) concerning replies prepared for the Office of the President and Office of the Vice President and Head of Network (HDNVP). These files contain correspondence logs or cover sheets indicating correspondence details and action instructions that are filed with the original incoming letters mostly addressed to Bank Presidents Wolfensohn and Wolfowitz, and, to a lesser extent, Zoellick. The outgoing responses were prepared by or on behalf of Directors O'Rourke or Kagia. The HDNVP incoming external correspondence files are primarily addressed to the HDN vice president and occasionally to the Bank president. Topics include: financial contributions of the Bank; invitations to conferences, symposia, roundtables, and other events; Development Grant Facility (DGF); partnership and liaison activities with international organizations and the private sector; and other matters.
There are also a small number of files titled "deadline logbooks" maintained by O'Rourke that contain correspondence log sheets with the attached letters addressed to President Wolfensohn for reply by the sector or by the HDN vice president.
The series also consists of chronological correspondence (2005 - 2006) prepared for Nicholas Krafft, Office of the Vice President (HDNVP). Many of the letters were drafted by Director Kagia or other HDNED senior staff to be sent by the HDN vice president or the Bank president.
Economist Elizabeth King chronological file: The series contains a chronological file which was maintained by Beth King while she was an economist, later senior economist of PHREE between September 1987 to March 1991 and July1991 to March 1992. The file includes both her incoming and outgoing correspondence. Much of the correspondence is with economists and educators external to the Bank, but the files include her correspondence with other sector and department employees. Among the correspondence are copies of her Terms of Reference, travel documents, and back-to-office reports regarding her missions and attendance at conferences; copies of draft papers on which she commented; drafts of her own publications with comments from others; and copies of research project proposals she drafted. The correspondence also documents her role as part of the World Development Report 1991 team and her drafting of the chapter on human resources in the report.
Briefing books: The series also consists of a small set of briefing books (1997 - 2002, 2009) prepared by the sector primarily for senior officials including President Wolfensohn at the World Education Forum held in Dakar in 2000, for Wolfensohn's meeting with the Bureau of African Ministers of the Association for the Development of Education in Africa (ADEA, 1997 - 2000, and a quarterly briefing book for Managing Director Mamphela Ramphele (2002). There are briefing books (1998 - 2002) for HDNED director external meetings and events and a briefing book of Director King (2009).
NRIC correspondence and related records: Also included in the series are several correspondence files (1975 - 1986) authored by department senior management, division chiefs, and advisers that were originally sent to the Non-Regional Information Center (NRIC) and arranged under the Bank-wide classification. Files are titled "general" and "agriculture modular instruction" and include mostly internal memoranda, letters, and cables that cover the various sector activities such as policy work, project related training and workshops, unit work program and objectives, education lending and economic and sector work reviews, and liaison with partners. Study outlines and papers, Terms of Reference, meeting summaries, proposals, final reports, and bound publications are sometimes filed with correspondence.
Most records in the series are in English. However, a small amount of correspondence and other items are in French and the 1979 Education Sector Policy press release is also in French, Spanish, and Arabic.
Series consists of records maintained by the front office of the Education Team of the Human Development Network (HDNED) related to fiscal year business planning and reviews in preparation for budget allocation and monitoring. Business plans were developed by the sector director and advisers and were subsequently endorsed by the Education Sector Board on which the director served as chair. Records were predominantly created between 1997 and 2001 by Directors Maris O'Rourke and Ruth Kagia and other senior staff including Bruno LaPorte, Jamil Salmi, and Sukai Prom-Jackson. The records provide contextual information about the organization of HDNED teams, the sector's thematic activities, strategic objectives, support to Bank regions, partnerships, spending, and lending.
Record types within the series include memoranda, hard copy emails, budget sheets, staffing lists, cost and expenditure tables, guidelines, hard copy presentation slides, HDN issues notes, and draft and final reports concerning the sector'sbusiness plans, mid-term review of work programs, and retrospective reviews. These records, particularly the reports that are in table form, detail the sector's various work programs, such as early childhood education, under which the program's various themes, activities, projects and outcomes, and regions of focus are outlined.
Correspondence is between HDNED director or other senior staff and the Human Development Network Vice Presidency (HDNVP), Human Development Network Operations (HDNOP), and Strategy, Finance, Risk and Resource Management (SFRRM) regarding the planning process and budget matters, and allocation of funds to the regions and HD anchor.
Series also includes a file from 2004 containing records related to global partnerships and programs, specifically preparation of the Development Grant Facility (DGF) work program, budget, and Global Program and Partnerships (GPP) portfolio review. Among the records are a hard copy presentation on DGF and proposed DGF budget FY05 to executive directors, hard copy emails attached to DGF summary information with budget requests and allocations, DGF work program task outlines, draft report, and DGF Council correspondence and reports on allocations for HDN. Correspondence is mainly between HDNED staff and DGF manager.
Series consists of various records maintained by the Education Sector Board of the Human Development Network (HDN) that was launched in September 1996. The Education Sector Board was one of the first sector boards to operate ahead of the Bank-wide reorganization in July 1997 that created networks to link staff working in the same sectors throughout the Bank.
The sector board was chaired by the sector director of the Human Development Network Education Team (HDNED). Maris O'Rourke was the first to serve in this position (1996 - 2000), followed by Director Ruth Kagia (tenure 2001 - 2008). The board was comprised of staff drawn from the network as well as representatives from the regions, Development Economics Department (DEC), International Finance Corporation (IFC), and World Bank Institute (WBI) and was managed by a sector manager. Accountable to the HDN Council led by the Human Development Network Vice Presidency, the board was supported by a secretariat. Records in the series reflect the responsibilitiesof the board in setting the strategy for the Bank's work in the sector, endorsing business plans and budget, ensuring the regions and anchor perspectives were coordinated, overseeing the outreach and partnerships for the sector, and vetting grant and trust fund proposals for quality, consistency, and prioritization with sector objectives.
A large portion of the series consists of meeting records including minutes, agenda, and reports from 1996 to 2006. There are records for one 1996 meeting held in December and a gap in the meeting records exists between 2004 and 2005. Some of the minutes contain handwritten annotations. Occasionally minutes are filed with copies of correspondence to the Office of the President or HDN Council, conference invitations and agenda, course outlines, draft and final discussion papers, external reports or newsletters, and other items. The minutes reflect discussion and decisions taken on various initiatives and topics such as: special grant proposals; preparation of reports or sector strategy; data and trends presented by sector staff including decline in education lending; external conferences and other events held by partners; quality assurance; Human Development Week event activities; fiscal year business plan and budget; staff training and development; awards programs; Bank reorganization; and various internal administrative matters. The minutes also specify follow-up actions to be taken.
The series also consists of chronological files of the sector board (1995 - 2000, with agap between mid-1998 and 1999), sector manager chronological file (2001 - 2002), and several correspondence and external correspondence files in liaison with the Office of the President (EXC, 2002 - 2005), specifically Wolfensohn (1996 - 1998), executive directors (1996 - 1997), HD Council (1996 - 1997), and the network's predecessor, Human Development Department (HDD) front office (1996 - 1997). The EXC correspondence files contain the incoming correspondence and log sheet with instructions, the response prepared by HDNED director or staff on behalf of the director, and emails between staff regarding draft responses that were sometimes jointly drafted with the input of other Bank units.
Subject files maintained by the sector board (1995 - 1999) also comprise the series. Files contain internal memoranda, external correspondence, and other records that relate to strategy, budget, funding, personnel, knowledge management, communications for the 1997 Human Development Network launch, Evaluation Learning Group, partnerships with external organizations, Development Grant Facility (DGF), and specific sector topics such as distance education and technology. There are also files related to the HDN Council that contain minutes of the HD Council meetings attended by O'Rourke and correspondence outlining directives from the HDD VP for the action of the sector board and regarding the launch of the networks including staffing matters. Correspondence is primarily between O'Rourke and other education sector senior staff such as Jeffrey Waite and Nick Burnett and includes all-in-1 messages and email hard copies, internal memoranda, and facsimiles. The correspondence is occasionally filed with internal reports such as working group and portfolio performance review reports, strategy papers, Terms of Reference, handwritten notes, and various other records.
An additional set of records relate to sector strategy, quality, governance, and partnerships (2000 - 2003). Strategy files contain draft business plans, Terms of Reference,issues notes, sector board minutes, framework or working papers, concept note reports, guidelines, executive summaries, and other reports. Strategic areas include Education for All Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI), HIV/AIDS, user fees in primary education, adult basic education, early child development, science and technology, and other themes.
Quality review records maintained by the sector board relate to the Quality Enhancement Review (QER) process for Bank-financed education projects at entry, quality training, and portfolio monitoring. The QER was initiated by the sector board in fiscal year 1999 and organized by the Quality Promotion Team, HDNED, in close collaboration with the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and the regions. The purpose of the QER was to provide professional advice for country and task teams to enhance the quality and impact of projects and economic sector work (ESW). The files titled "Quality" contain: QER guidelines and overview documents; list of QERs FY2001 to 2003; QER panel roster; Terms of Reference; reports; and email hard copies regarding requests for QER by task team leaders (TTLs) and provision of quality training courses in collaboration between HDNED and Human Development Network, Health, Nutrition and Population Team (HDNHE) and HDNVP. The records pertaining to portfolio monitoring include quarterly reports, FY2002 retrospective report, and email hard copies between HDNED staff Omporn Regel and HDN Operations Officer Hongu Yang from HDNHE Lead Specialist Christopher Walker. Also included are four QER files related to Water and Sanitation and two related to Environment Sector Board QER that were presumably kept as reference.
Series contains records of the Human Development Network Education Team (HDNED) and previous units related to the management of funds to support global and regional development initiatives. Records document financial support for various education programs under the Bank's Special Grants Program (SPG) as well as the Development Grant Facility (DGF) approved in fiscal year 1998 which later absorbed the SPG. Most records in this series relate to DGF-supported programs. The programs represented in the records were implemented by the Bank's development partners including United Nations agencies, international organizations, bilateral agencies, foundations, and the private sector. DGF programs consisted of: country-level activities; capacity building; knowledge initiatives such as organization of conferences and training; and collective action across countries on education sector priorities.
Partnerships and programs represented in the files include, but are not limited to: World Education Forum for the Education for All (EFA) program; United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization Institute for Statistics (UIS) program of education statistics to monitor country-level progress towards EFA goals; Global Development Network (GDN) to support education research; Association for the Development of Education in Africa (ADEA) and knowledge initiatives; Forum of African Women Educationalists (FAWE); and International Programme for the Improvement of Educational Outcomes (IPIEO).
Records were createdand maintained between 1995 and 2005 by various HDNED staff primarily including Shobhana Sosale, senior education specialist and program manager for trust funds, Task Manager and Economist Elizabeth (Beth) King, Adviser Marlaine Lockheed, and Sukai Prom-Jackson. The records reflect the activities of program managers throughout the grant and trust fund cycle, including preparation and review of grant proposals for the sector board, handling communication with partner grant recipients, preparation of the Letter of Approval (LOA) issued by the HDN vice president, arranging disbursement of funds, and the audit and evaluation of programs. Other records reflect participation in Bank and externally organized conferences and workshops on trust funds, and the trust fund learning and certification program.
Files contain detailed information on grant and trust fund-related programs, activities, achievements, and partnerships and contain the following formats: internal memoranda; all-in-1 notes and email hard copies; incoming and outgoing letters; handwritten notes; draft and final proposals; partnership approval and tracking system (PATS) output reports; guidelines; recipients' annual, financial and technical reports; recipient and internal progress reports; expenditure statements; budget reports; funding data tables; agenda and minutes of meetings; background papers, some prepared by the sector; fiscal year education DGF strategy and programs draft paper; letters of representations; lists of program trust funds; and printed material produced by partner organizations.
Internal correspondence is mostly between the responsible HDNED program manager or director, sector staff, and sector board, and HDN vice president. The correspondence covers various matters such as: reviews of proposals including recruitment of external peer reviewers for proposals; survey data for DGF applications; feedback and comments on proposals, including from the Education Sector Board; reporting on priorities for use of trust funds; the Bank's trust funds management reform; and announcements of trust fund agreements from the Trust Funds and Cofinancing Department (CTF). Other correspondence and associated records, such as the draft DGF sector strategy proposal, detail how funding was shaped by the Education Sector Strategy Paper issued in 1999.
Hard copy emails between program manager Sosale and the DGF unit and with HDNED directors concern the disbursement of educational grant program funds and contain general details on proposed individual programs and fiscal year priorities for funding. Attached to these emails are score cards of proposals from DGF manager, submission summary report, and strategy reports.
External correspondence includes the LOA sent by HDNVP to the president or head of the partner and recipient organization, and letters or hard copy emails from the director and program managers about proposal preparation, use and disbursement of funds, and other matters and queries such as categorization of funding.
The series also consists of records related to the Bank Netherlands Partnership Program (BNPP, 1997 - 2003) that contain funding proposals for the Dutch Trust Fund, email hard copies and memoranda outlining prioritized proposals by Marleen Dijkman (HDNHE) and from Education Sector Board Secretary Margaret Amaral to HDN Vice President David de Ferranti. Records document activities, timeline, and costs of regional and global activities in the education sector such as girls education and EFA.
There are also files related to rejected proposals and task managers' meetings (2000 - 2001).
Series consists of records related to the development of policy and best practice for projects and sector work in education and employment that were created and maintained by the Education Department (EDT, 1972 - 1977 later EDC 1977 - 1984) and its successor units. The series represents the policy working papers, guidelines, standards, and other instruments prepared by the sector as well as the collection and analysis of guidelines, manuals, and other tools developed by other Bank departments and external organizations such as the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). The series also reflects the activities of external advisory panels formed to make recommendations regarding the Bank's education policy. Records were predominantly created between 1972 to 2003, apart from a small number of externally authored reports from the 1960s.
The largest volume of records relate to educational guidelines mostly maintained by the Education Department (EDC) Implementation Advisor David H. Lewis who reported to the EDC director. Files contain guidelines, reports, and internal memoranda between Lewis and Director Duncan S. Ballantine and his successor Aklilu Habte, Senior Advisor Mats Hultin, or regional Education Projects Division architects. Certain records were also created by EDC Educator Clifford W. Gilpin. Guidelines records are organized by subject and cover the topics of operational guidelines, school construction, architectural standards by country, basic learning equipment in education projects, and analytical data. Guidelines were developed for sector staff, consultants, and region staff to maintain and improve the quality of Bank lending and related operations.
Operational guidelines: Records categorized as operational guidelines mostly relate to the discussion and dissemination of guidelines regarding Bank education projects. Guidelines pertain to organizing project appraisal, implementation, procurement practices, preparation of project reports, architectural space and unitappraisal costs, technical assistance, maintenance of education facilities, implementation of construction components and basic equipment in education projects, sector report guidelines, and more. The guidelines are typically in the form of report or sector memoranda prepared by the Education Department but also include jointly prepared user guides, Operations Evaluation Department (OED) guidelines, and "Introduction to the World Bank's Manpower and Education Model" manual prepared by Technical Department,Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region (1987). Internal memoranda within the files are mainly addressed to EDC Director Habte and contains Lewis' reports on seminars and conferences attended, discussion of changes and approach to the project cycle, and Bank activities in financing educational facilities. Other record types found within the operational guidelines files are charts illustrating project development, job descriptions, and conference papers.
Analytical data: Analytical data records are mostly in the form of internal memoranda, such as from EDC director to EDC staff or to all Regional Education Division staff regarding global data on education enrollment, education and training lending, comparative education indicators, and more. Data tables outlining figures or standard measurements of these data sets are sometimes filed with memoranda.
Architectural standards and school construction guidelines: Records related to architectural standards and school construction contain research reports and guidelines specifying the dimensions and materials for construction of schools as well as for school furniture and equipment. Reports are mostly UNESCO Regional Office design protocol reports shared by Lewis with the other regional architects for projects. However, there are also United States Agency for Aid Development (USAID) and international institutes external reports and guidelines used as reference.
Architectural standards records are organized by country or region. Several files relate to primary school building programs, urban primary schools, low-cost school and housing design, and community development and education centers. Internal memoranda from Lewis to regional staff to share information and details on prototype designs and features, costs, partners, village involvement, progress reported, and occasionally, brief mention of IDA education projects. There are also outgoing letters to UNESCO regional office education officials. Other records within the files include: costing or budget sheets; external reports or manuals, many of which were prepared by the UNESCO Regional Office for Education in Asia and UNESCO Regional Office for Education in Africa, and in Latin America and Caribbean; external reports of country ministries or research institutes; and an architects' brief. The external reports are mostly in English, French, and Farsi.
UNESCO project preparation guidelines: Also included in the series are records related to UNESCO guidelines for project preparation including a 1965 UNESCO low-cost school building report and recommendations, and a 1969 UNESCO report. There is also a substantive briefing note on UNESCO and World Bank relations in the education sector that was prepared by the Education and Employment Division, Population and Human Resources Department (PHREE) in 1988.
Other guidelines subject files: There are numerous other educational guidelines subject files maintained between 1973 and 1983 regarding data collection, project management, educational use of mass media, labor requirements model, education and manpower model, review of education lending (FY1979 - 1983), summary list of projects, and other topics.
The more recent policy development subject files (1990 to 2001) relate to: Education for All Fast Track initiative (EFA-FTI); girls' education; Development Assistance Committee (DAC) goals; Africa Region education action plan and sector overview; and Task Force on Bridging the Digital Divide through Education.
External Advisory Panels: The series also contains records related to the establishment and dissemination of reports from advisory groups between 1978 and 2003. The External Advisory Group on Training for the Education Sector was appointed by Bank President McNamara in late 1977 to review the status of education in the developing world including the Bank's education and training lending and projects and to recommend areas for future action. The panel was chaired by David E. Bell of the Ford Foundation. Records related to the final report of this panel were maintained in the Non-Regional Information Center (NRIC) and consist of a single file (1978 - 1980). The NRIC file contains mostly internal memoranda to and from Director Habte regarding comments on the panel report issued in 1978 and input from the Regions including from R.K. Johnson, chief Education Division, East Asia and Pacific Region (AEPED). There are also letters between Chair David E. Bell and President McNamara regarding completion of the final report and from Habte to panel members announcing the 1979 Education Sector Strategy paper and follow up on the panel recommendations. Also included is a letter from Vice President Willi A. Wapenhans, East Africa Regional Office to the Tanzanian minister of education regarding a requested visit of the recently formed advisory panel to Tanzania.
Records also reflect the establishment and activities of subsequent advisory panels formed annually to advise the Bank on the future direction in education covering the period 1994 to 2003. The 1994 to 1995 correspondence andbackground notes relates to the formation of the first annual panel formed in 1996. Records were primarily maintained by the Human Development Department Education Team (HDDED) Manager, later Director Maris O'Rourke. Correspondence is in the form of all-in-1 notes and email hard copies and facsimiles between O'Rourke, HDD Director David de Ferranti, HDD senior staff, and letters to and from panel members including invitations to annual panel meetings. There are also copies of correspondence between the 1997 External Advisory Panel on Education Chairman Jozef (Jo) M.M. Ritzen and de Ferranti and Bank President James Wolfensohn, including a facsimile on advice to the World Bank addressed to Wolfensohn and follow up thank you letters from Wolfensohn to Ritzen and other panel members.
A variety of records are filed with the advisory panel correspondence including: Terms of Reference for the panels; panel meeting agenda; meeting draft conclusions; preliminary and final panel reports; Ritzen?s speech on reforming education to the World Bank Forum; transcript of the newly formed Human Development Network (HDN) kick-off meeting between de Ferranti and Wolfensohn; agenda and summaries of meetings including sector board meetings and correspondence related to the board's functions regarding the panels; hard copy presentation slides; addresses by Wolfensohn and senior management; issues papers; education sector booklet and other promotional material; external articles and newsletters; two copies of the 1978 panel report, one bound copy, kept by O'Rourke; and agenda with outgoing letters of invitation sent by O'Rourke for the high-level UNESCO meeting on the future of educational statistics and indicators hosted by the Bank. Following O'Rourke?s departure as director in 2000, Acting Director Marlaine Lockheed and HDNED Operations Officer Sobhana Sosale were involved in panel selection and meeting preparations, later under the direction of Ruth Kagia who began her tenure as director in early 2001. There is a small volume of mostly administrative correspondence from this period to 2003, including internal email hard copies and letters to panel members.
Education Sector Strategy Paper: There are also records in the series (1997 - 1999) regarding the preparation of the [Education Sector Strategy]( https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/406991468178765170/education-sector-strategy) issued in 1999 to shape policy and practice in member countries. Records were primarily maintained by Director O'Rourke, Adviser Jeffrey Waite, and Projects Assistant Anja Robakowski-Van Stralen. Record types include handwritten notes, concept papers, preliminary outlines and drafts beginning from late 1997, several with annotations, and the draft final report submitted to the Board of Executive Directors' meeting (1999). Correspondence is in the form of hard copy emails and occasionally internal memoranda primarily to and from O'Rourke and Waite containing comments from the sector board, external individuals, executive directors, and other Bank department staff including from the regions and the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). There is also an OED evaluative report and Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE) informal subcommittee review meeting summaries, as well as correspondence and outlines of plans for strategy development, such as the timeline for implementation of the sector strategy work in the regions. Also included are O'Rourke's memoranda to the Operations Policy Committee presenting the paper and data collected, summaries of meetings with HDNED staff and regional staff to discuss the strategy paper, and summaries of other meetings such as with Wolfensohn regarding the status of education in the regions.
Annual reviews: A small portion of records in the series contains correspondence related to the internal review of Bank policy in the education and employment sectors (1983 - 1986), including copies of the operations annual review, Sector and Operations Vice Presidency (OSP) annual sector review, and Operations Evaluation Department (OED) annual reviews. Among the correspondence are draft reports and papers used for background and reference material.
NRIC policy reports and documents: Finally, there are four general policy files originally maintained in the NRIC that contain various reports and other records produced by Education Department (EDC) senior staff, consultants, and others (1978 - 1980). Included in the files are: OED Review of Bank Operations in the Education Sector (1978); Education Sector Policy Report No. 2680 (1979); Policy Review Committee Staff level review meeting on the Education Department, Central Projects Staff Education Sector Policy Paper (1979) and policy paper discussion drafts (1978 - 1979); Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Bank Cooperative Program "Training Equipment Lists in Food and Agriculture" publication with a forward by Habte (1978); and the publication entitled "Occupational structures of industries" by Manuel Zymelman (1980) containing country tables and industry tables.
Series consists of records documenting HDNED and previous units support to the Bank's lending and project activities within the education, training, and employment sector. Records are organized into subject files and contain details on Bank loans and credits and interaction with units in the various regions.
The earliest records in the series were maintained by the Project Related Training Program (EDCPT) staff of the Education Department created in July 1983. The unit provided operational support to theregional transportation, public utilities, and agriculture divisions on matters related to project-related training (PRT) which primarily involved developing advanced courses and instructing sector staff on project design and implementation. In February 1985, EDCPT became the Project Related Training Division (EDTPT) under the renamed Education and Training Department and was terminated in July 1986. Records cover the period from 1982 to 1986 and include: preliminary draft guidelines; copies of internal memoranda, many to EDT director; policy notes; discussion papers; and a copy of the 1978 Operation Evaluation Department (OED) Review of Bank Operations in the Education Sector report. Specific topics covered, but not limited to, include: guidelines for project related training components in transportation projects; an approach to manpower development for the transport sector; guidelines for designing training components in agricultural and rural development projects; and United Nations Educational, Cultural, and Scientific Organization (UNESCO) Cooperative Program review. EDPT records were primarily created by Senior Training Adviser Augustin Alberti, Division Chief Lennart Swahn, and Senior Training Adviser H.W. Barker.
The series also contains records related to the Quality Enhancement Review (QER) panel's work on various education projects managed by operational task teams, and a review of the World Bank Institute Education Training program. The QER panel was first instituted for HDN projects in Fiscal Year 1999. QER broadly followed the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) methodology to improve the quality of projects but functioned as an independent group of senior colleagues who conducted the project preparation review with the task teams.
QER records were created between 2000 and 2007 apart from a file containing a 1997 report. Senior Education Specialists Juan Manual Moreno, Yidan Wang, and other HDNED served as QER panel members with typically two or three other colleagues from the region's education units. QER panels were not always represented by HDNED staff but in the case of these records, the panel reviews were jointly sponsored by the Education Sector Board and QAG. Records contain panel Terms of Reference, agenda or interview schedule, draft project concept notes, project appraisal documents (PADs), aide-memoires, issues papers, minutes of review meetings, back-to-office reports, project data tables, country profiles, external strategy papers and reports, previous QER reports, and other reference material collected by the panel to support its review. Most files do not contain a final panel review report. Among the several projects represented in the files are West Bank and Gaza Higher Education (P083767) and Montenegro Education Project (P084597).
There are also files regarding sector plans, sector strategy, and country and lending information. Sector plan files relate to the Fast Track Initiative (2002 - 2005) and include Education for All and Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) proposals and plans produced by member countries across multiple regions. Education sector strategy records (1999) contain an implementation plan, chapters, annexes with data tables and figures and maps outlining education lending, and two hard copy emails between HDNED Adviser Jeffrey Waite and Anja Robakowski-Van Strolen. Finally, there is a file containing country information divided by region with country action plans and supporting data on the status of education and Bank assistance in each country.
Series contains a variety of records mostly maintained by the HDNED Knowledge Management unit responsible for producing or disseminating education sector information products and responding to client requests. Records in the series take the form of reports; project lesson reports; newsletters; presentation slides; correspondence; and supporting documentation.
A significant volume of records is comprised of Bank reports (primarily Quality Enhancement Review [QER] reports), newsletters, and publications related to country education projects (1999 - 2004). Numerous countries are represented from all regions, particularly European and Central Asia as well as the Middle East and South Asia.
The series also contains records related to presentations and visits of Director Maris O'Rourke including her 1998 visit to the United Nations, presentations to the Human Development Council HDN, and other external presentations on the Bank and education. Several presentation files contain transparency slides, and a small number of these include the hard copy slides with presentation notes. Some slides appear to be prepared as templates for presenters to customize for audiences while others were prepared and used for specific presentations.
Other subject files cover: economics of human resources and economic analysis of education projects (1994 - 1999); the role of the World Bank in education as well as in education research and evaluation (1996 - 1998); structural adjustment and education (1997); knowledge management (1997); education strategy (1999); sector board's work program and budget (1999); and a small volume of conference and workshop papers such as for Quality of Economic and Sector Work (ESW) Workshop (2002).
Records regarding the World Education Forum, Dakar (2000) contain: email hard copies between O'Rourke and Steven Commins (External Relations); attached reports and Education for All (EFA) planning meeting summaries centered around communications and public relations; draft outline for President Wolfensohn speeches; back-to-office reports of O'Rourke and successor Director Ruth Kagia; and draft conference reports.
Series contains records maintained by the Education Department (EDP, 1968 - 1972, later EDC, 1977 - 1984) and successor units responsible for producing and disseminating research. Research is conducted by the sectors to support operations projects as well as regional, country, or specific sector programs and initiatives, and to improve the level of sector knowledge in particular areas. Records were primarily created between 1968 and 1991 apart from a set of questionnaires dated 2005 and copy of an externalreport dated 1965 used for reference.
Many of the records were created by George Psacharopoulos during his tenure as education research adviser, Education Department (EDC, 1981 - 1983), manager, Education Research Program (EDCRS, 1983 - 1985) followed by Research Division chief (EDTRS, 1985 - 1987). Other records were created by Senior Adviser Wadi D. Haddad, Senior Sociologist Stephen P. Heyneman, Economist Elizabeth (Beth) M. King, Michael Wilson, and others.
Record formats include, but are not limited to: correspondence regarding collaboration, sharing of information, comments on draft papers, or research conducted for the unit by university professors and other third parties; research proposals; initiating briefs; preliminary outlines; Terms of Reference; back-to-office reports for missions relating to research projects; statistical and other data; operational project audit and completion reports; published and unpublished external reports from governments, external organizations and scholars; working and discussion paper drafts and final versions; surveys; handwritten research notes; copies of journal articles and press clippings; and computer floppy disks containing final papers and research results.
A portion of the material specifically relates to country studies regarding living standards in Peru, higher education in Africa, diversified secondary curriculum (DiSCus) in Colombia and Tanzania, and university education in Pakistan. Other topics include, but are not limited to: economic impact of education; women in education; structural adjustment and education; education and public expenditures; vocational training; education strategy and employment policies; assessments of testing capacities; effects of school conditions and atmosphere on students' performances; informal sector education and employment; education and earnings; and education and environment.
Several of these subject files relate to the preparation of Research Project Outputs (RPOs). The RPO numeric code was assigned to projects throughout the Bank by the Development Economics Department. One such set of files relates to RPO 672-45 Diversified Secondary Curriculum Study (1968 - 1985, not inclusive) prepared by George Psacharopoulos and previously by Wadi Haddad. Records consist of back-to-office reports following missions, internal and external correspondence including with the Research Committee, working papers, questionnaires, research notes and data, and various other record types.
There are also records (1984 - 1986) pertaining to the EDTRS publication ["Financing education in developing countries: an exploration of policy options"](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/409491468763761554/financing-education-in-developing-countries-an-exploration-of-policy-options) issued in 1986. Records include working drafts and review draft versions, memoranda from EDT Director Aklilu Habte to Operations Policy Staff Vice President S. Shahid Husain including the initiating brief, correspondence concerning press reaction, and other items.
A small portion of records in the series reflect collaboration between the Research Division and the Education Policy Division (EDTEP) led by Division Chief Dean T. Jamison regarding policy on education in Africa (1983 - 1987). Records include memoranda from Jamison and Psacharopoulos to OPSVP sharing a summary of the Bank-organized Research Priorities in Education in Sub-Saharan Africa Conference proceedings held in Bellagio in 1985, final conference report, agenda and list of participants, papers presented at the conference, and a pre-conference report on workshop research priorities (1984).
The sector policy study ["Education in Sub-Saharan Africa: policies for adjustment, revitalization, and expansion"](https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/816101468009945118/education-in-sub-saharan-africa-policies-for-adjustment-revitalization-and-expansion) soon followed, issued in 1988. There are three volumes of files (1984 - 1987) pertaining to the preparation of the study. Included are memoranda between Haddad, Jamison, task leader and Senior Economist Peter R. Moock (EDTEP), Operations Adviser Ralph W. Harbison, and other staff discussing the development of the paper, comments on preliminary versions, and budget. Included with the memoranda are the initiating brief with follow-up comments, meeting address of Habte, and background data and papers.
Records originally maintained in the NRIC (1981 - 1982) contain internal memoranda between Haddad and Habte, letters exchanged with external agencies, primarily the International Development Research Center regarding the sector's participation in the Research Review and Advisory Group and other collaborative activities. Back-to-office reports, draft outlines and reports, and other items are also filed with the correspondence. Finally, a small portion of questionnaires maintained by Director Ruth Kagia related to the Ngecha Education Study (2005) also belong to the series.
Most of the records are in English, with correspondence and reports occasionally in French and Spanish, and research data and questionnaires in Swahili.
The series consists mainly of reports authored by staff and consultants of the Education Research Division (EDTRS) and Education Policy Division (EDTPT). Reports were prepared for internal dissemination, presentation at conferences or seminars, or issued as publications. The records were primarily accumulated between 1974 and 1990, apart from a single 1967 Economics Department report. The series also contains a small number of reports by Bank staff outside of the sector or by external authors.
Record formats include, but are not limited to, internal working papers, discussion papers, research papers and research project outputs (RPO), sector review papers, background papers for Bank seminars, manuals, and copies of articles authored by sector staff and collaborators for external economics or education-related journals. Some papers are Bank-numbered series such as the Education and Training Series discussion papers (1985 - 1987). However, many reports are not numbered. Other document formats include lectures and case studies.
Most of the series consists of files with a single or bound report. The reports are mainly final drafts or published versions; very few rough drafts with annotations are found in the records.
A smaller amount of staff and consultant reports contain one or more different papers and typically consist of internal memoranda and letters regarding the revision of the reports or publication arrangements. Correspondence is between EDTRS Division Chief George Pscharopoulous and other EDTRS staff, consultants contracted to author reports, or from EDT director to the Bank's Publication unit. The files containing reports and related correspondence range from 1981 to 1987.
Reports and documents focus on regions, countries, or specific sector topics. Topics include, but are not limited to: procurement in Bank education projects; effective schools; higher education; informal education; teachers issues and salary; educational planning and change; development of school media services; users charges and expenditures for public education; income benefits of schooling; manpower planning; and review of educational research capabilities in less-developed countries.
Authors that are most prominently represented in the series include George Psacharopoulous, Stephen P. Heyneman, Manuel Zymelman, Dean T. Jamison, Peter R. Moock, Marlaine Lockheed, Jee-Peng Tan, Alain Mingat, and John Simmons (Policy Planning Division).
Many reports in the series are co-authored, such as the "Education and development: Viewsfrom the World Bank" 1983 report by EDT Director Aklilu Habte, Psacharopoulous, and Heyneman. Also included is a first version of a "Handbook for implementation of education projects" (1975) prepared by Education Department, Central Projects Staff.
Series contains records related to the partnerships between education sector units and external organizations and global program collaboration that cover the period from 1987 to 2000. The largest portion of records in the series relate to the World Conference on Education for All (WCEFA), an inter-agency initiative that began with a conference to universalize basic education and that launched the Education for All (EFA) program.
World Conference on Education for All (WCEFA): The WCEFA records document the establishment, governance, and proceedings of the conference convened by World Bank, United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), United Nations and Development Program (UNDP), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), and United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). The impetus for the conference was the United Nations General Assembly declaration of 1990 as International Literacy Year. Invitations to the inaugural WCEFA were jointly sent from Bank President Conable and the heads of fellow sponsoring agencies. The conference was held March 2-5, 1990, in Jomtien, Thailand and brought together 155 governments, 33 intergovernmental bodies, and 125 nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The participants adopted the World Declaration on Education for All charter consisting of six goals to meet the learning needs of children, youth, and adults, and a Framework for Action: Meeting Basic Learning Needs that outlined general priority actions for countries.
WCEFA records were mostly maintained by Wadi Haddad, executive secretary of the WCEFA Inter-agency Commission originally based in New York City, and WCEFA Deputy Executive Secretary Nat J. Colletta. For more information about the custody of these records, see the above archival history section. Haddad and Colletta were both senior Bank staff prior to their appointment to the Inter-agency Commission secretariat. Haddad served as the Population and Human Resources, Education and Employment Division chief (PHREE) and Colletta was previously a senior educator in the Bank's India Country Department. WCEFA records were also maintained by Maris O'Rourke who represented the Bank on conference committees during her tenure as senior adviser, Human Development Department (HDD, 1995 - 1996) and director, Human Development Network, Education Team (HDNED, 1998 - 2000). Prior to O'Rourke, other Education Sector senior management or advisers represented the Bank on the various committees and working groups. Adriaan Verspoor, implementation adviser (PHREE, predecessor of HDD), served to represent the Bank on the WCEFA Executive Committee along with Vice President Visvanathan Rajagopalan, Sector Policy and Research (PRE).
The earliest WCEFA records in this series dated 1978 to 1987 are reference items including external reports and a journal article. Most of the early correspondence includes letters and facsimiles between UNICEF and other UN agency representatives and Executive Secretary Haddad. Haddad coordinated the consultations and comments on the draft charter and framework for action from sponsors, co-sponsors, and associates prior to the conference. The correspondence is often filed with background reports from UNICEF and UNESCO and other organizations and consultants, outlines of the basic working documents, some annotated outlines, first drafts of the charter and framework for action, and the final revised papers presented at the 1990 Jomtien conference. There is also correspondence and back-to-office reports of Deputy Secretary Colletta following his participation in partnership or task force meetings and a file that pre-dates his position with WCEFA. This includes an India education sector work file that contains country information, statistics on projects, and initiating memoranda for proposed studies and projects (1987 - 1989).
The earliest WCEFA records in this series dated 1978 to 1987 are reference items including external reports and a journal article. Most of the early correspondence includes letters and facsimiles between UNICEF and other UN agency representatives and Executive Secretary Haddad. Haddad coordinated the consultations and comments on the draft charter and framework for action from sponsors, co-sponsors, and associates prior to the conference. The correspondence is often filed with background reports from UNICEF and UNESCO and other organizations and consultants, outlines of the basic working documents, some annotated outlines, first drafts of the charter and framework for action, and the final revised papers presented at the 1990 Jomtien conference. There is also correspondence and back-to-office reports of Deputy Secretary Colletta following his participation in partnership or task force meetings and a file that pre-dates his position with WCEFA. This includes an India education sector work file that contains country information, statistics on projects, and initiating memoranda for proposed studies and projects (1987 - 1989).
The series also contains a substantial portion of meeting records related to the organization and governance of the WCEFA. These are: Steering Group Meeting (1988 - 1990, first meeting October 1989) including proposals for membership and chronological file, (1987 - 1990); regional consultations (1989 - 1990); Working Group on the Basic Education for All Conference (1988 - 1989); Executive Committee meetings (first meeting in Paris, March 1989 - 1990); heads of agencies meeting (1988 - 1990); sponsors meetings (1989); Regional Conference and International Task Force on Literacy and regional consultations minutesand reports (1989 - 1990). Most files contain agenda, minutes, and correspondence, however others may only contain list of participants and annexed reports or briefing notes.
There are also agreements between the WCEFA sponsors and host government of Thailand, preliminary conference objectives notes, conference programme and roundtable programmes in English and French, and numerous conference workshop files (1989). Workshop files on basic training for out-of-school youth contain the agenda, list of participants, terms of reference, externally authored background reports, case studies, journal articles, and pamphlets. Other workshops on the topics of adult literary and data analysis and presentation include terms of reference, summary record, and correspondence from Deputy Executive Secretary Colletta regarding workshop preparation.
Other WCEFA files are titled "Illustrative" and "Thematic" (1978 - 1990). Illustrative files contain conference pamphlets, abstracts, background papers, case studies, and othersession materials distributed to participants. Thematic files contain guidelines, publications, and special studies booklets for roundtables organized by the secretariat, lists of proposed thematic or global roundtables, draft outlines, notes for the record, and correspondence with roundtable coordinators and attached proposals from sponsoring agency representatives regarding contributions. Some thematic files contain abstracts and background reports as in the illustrative files. Abstracts, or synthes, arecommonly in both English and French. Several reports and publications presented or studied at the roundtable sessions were prepared by Bank education staff. The earliest report is the 1978 World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 298 by Stephen P. Heyneman, Education Department Research Program (EDCRS) and co-authors.
WCEFA subject files (1984 - 1992) relate to topics including: WCEFA partners and participants such as UN agencies, government aid agencies, NGOs, private foundations, and various countries; conference declaration and press coverage; and cultural factors and learning needs.
The 1990 Jomtien conference launched the international Education for All (EFA) program with the financial support of the Bank and the other conference conveners as well as various foundations and international and nongovernmental organizations. As of 2021, the Global Partnership for Education (GPE), formerly EFA, continues to fund projects, activities, and services in the public and private sectors for children, youth, and adults within and outside school. This series contains records concerning the Bank's participation in post-conference EFA initiatives and meetings. These records pertain to the International Consultative Forum on Education for All Steering Committee established to monitor goals and progress towards the Education for All program (1997 - 2000), the G8 Task Force on Education organized with the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in (2001), Accelerating Action for Education for All, Amsterdam (2002), and Education for All Fast Track Initiative (EFA - FTI) donor meeting and technical meeting (2002 - 2003). FTI was established in 2002 before evolving into the GPE. There is also a general Education for All initiative partnerships file (1997 - 2000).
Other liaison and partnership files: Other partnership records comprising the series (1994 - 2001, 2007) mostly consist of correspondence to and from HDNED Director O'Rourke and other senior staff concerning the sector's collaboration and liaison activitieswith numerous international and national organizations, academic institutions, and private sector education and employment institutions.
A small portion of records were created by Director Ruth Kagia who succeeded O'Rourke as director in 2001. The partnership files document the sector's involvement in high-level meetings including the arrangement and proceedings of meetings, and discussion of shared activities and collaboration. Correspondence consists of all-in-one notes and email hard copies, memoranda, incoming and outgoing letters, and facsimiles. Back-to-office reports are in the form of memoranda. Other record types found among the correspondence include external annual reports, agenda and invitations to meetings or conferences, proposal papers, brochures, and copies of external articles.
Records regarding partnership activities with UNESCO and other United Nations agencies comprise most of the files. There is a single file concerning UNESCO partnership dated 2007 and two files related to the UN Special Rapporteur Katarina Tomasevski which contains correspondence with Director Kagia, Human Development Network Vice Presidency, and others. The topics covered are Bank financing and support to education programs, draft annual report for comment and final annual report to United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), and feedback on an HDNED Education Sector Strategy Paper.
Other partner institutions include, but are not limited to: European Union; Soros Foundation; Japan International Cooperation Agency; International Association for the Evaluation of Education Achievement (IEA); and World Links. There are also individual files concerning the Human Development Professional Mentoring Program (1997), Development Grant Facility (DGF, 1997 - 1999), and various conferences (1996 - 1997).
Series consists of records related to a variety of conferences, seminars, and other knowledge and learning events organized or attended by senior management and staff across the sector's units. Records include internal memoranda, incoming and outgoing letters, agendas, presentation slides, course or training materials, and copies of journal articles and papers.
Many records document HDNED Director Ruth Kagia's participation and presentations in various conferences and other external and internal events. There are files containing mostly presentation slide transparencies outlining Poverty Reduction and Strategy Paper (PSRP) training, as well as Kagia's presentation to the Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) Conference on User Fees in Education held 23 April 2001 discussing the World Bank's position on user fees. Also includes Kagia's paper presentation at the 2002 International Conference of the Centre of African Studies under the topic of new approaches to African development that are filed with letters from conference donors, a list of participants, invitations, and copies of papers presented by other speakers.
Records related to Human Development Week 2000 contain talking points and data under the heading of poverty and human development, including an overview of Human Development Network (HDN) goals, immediate indicators, and future indicators. There are also hard copy emails to and from Kagia and other Bank staff including Human Development Poverty Reduction Economist Michael Walton regarding planning and content, course materials, and communications and evaluations for Humane Development Learning Week (2003).
The series also contains records of Bank-hosted and organized learning events. These include the global Early Childhood Development (ECD) Conference hosted by the Bank in April 2000 to address the benefits and challenges of investing in early child development. The records include some administrative correspondence on preparation and planning of the conference. There is also a file related to the Bank seminar on the international development goals for multilateral development partners and member country development institutions, hosted in March 2001 and organized outside of HDNED, but which Kagia attended. Included are the list of participants, agenda, data slides, background papers, and reports.
A variety of other files relate to: briefing materials and key education documents for various conferences and seminars attended by sector staff as well as Bank President James D. Wolfensohn (1997 - 2003); minutes, report of the Knowledge Board and staff learning progress report (2004 - 2005); year-end reports, evaluations, activity initiation report status and course descriptions (1999 - 2000).
There is also a small volume of records pertaining to the Seminar on Public Expenditures that was developed by the Education Policy Division (EDTEP) and held in 1985.
The fonds consists of records that reflect the various activities of the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Vice Presidencyof (ESSDVP) and its oversight of, and involvement with, sector departments within the network. Note that a small amount of records in this fonds were created prior to the creation of ESSDVP by Bank staff within the Environmentally Sustainable Development Vice Presidency (ESD); the records were brought into ESSDVP's recordkeeping system as a result of staff transfer into ESSDVP. The majority of the records in this fonds are clearly associated with the activities of Ian Johnson, ESSD Vice President from 1998 to 2006.
Series consists of records related to, or the product of, budgetary planning and resource allocation. Included are a number of budget reports, including some that were created for the Environmentally Sustainable Development Vice Presidency (ESD). These include: ESD Work Program Indicators (FY96 and FY97); ESD Retrospective Reviews (FY 94, FY 95, and FY 96); ESD Original FY95 Work Program; ESD FY96-98 Business Plan; ESSD FY98-00 Business Plan; ESSD Final Budget Outcome. Also included are records that relateto: the Leadership Asset Management Program (LAMP); the allocation of funds to the Development Grant Facility (DGF); and budget planning for FY00 and FY01.
Series consists of records related to Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) and ESSD Vice President Ian Johnson's role as CGIAR Chairman. Johnson served as Chairman from 2000-2006. Records relate to CGIAR planning and policy development and to CGIAR meetings, conferences, and workshops.
Series contains agendas, supporting materials, and notes related to a variety of meetings, conferences, and workshops participated in and/or attended by Ian Johnson, including: European Donors Meeting, Paris (17 April 2001); CGIAR System Office Workshop (13-14 March 2002); CGIAR North American Donors Meeting (5 April 2001); and CGIAR's Synthesis Meeting, Reading, UK (4-7 October 2000). Materials supporting the European Donors Meeting are also included.
Supporting materials include numerous reports. A number of these reports relate to CGIAR planning, organizational changes and strategies and were authored by the CGIAR's Change Design and Management Team (CDMT). Reports on these activities preparedby the CGIAR Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) are also included.
A small amount of records which relate to the Operation Evaluation Department's (OED) meta-evaluation of CGIAR of 2002 are also included. The majority of these records are correspondence and discuss CGIAR staff feedback and comments.
Series consists of records related to ESSD's role in providing management, oversight, and resource allocation for those trust funds that involve ESSD sectors. Records relating to trust funds provided by Denmark (TF024153), Norway (TF0231295), and Italy (TF023333) are the most numerous. Records related to Denmark are dated from 1996-1997 and 2000 and include: proposals; trust fund agreements; budget requests; initiating briefs; and correspondence between ESD and Danish government ministers. Records from 2000 relate to a proposal for a possible second phase of the Danish ESSD Trust Fund. These records include a proposal by SDV to the Government of Denmark as well as debriefing and consultation notes and a copy of Denmark's Development Policy (2000). Records related to Italy include correspondence between Bank officials (including the Bank President and ESSD Vice President) and Italian officials including their American Ambassador. Also included is background material on the Trust Fund for Culture and Sustainable Development for which Italy provided funding. Records related to Norway include funding proposals by SDV as well as other Bank units external to ESSD. Also included are records relating to the Norwegian Trust Fund for Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development (NTF-ESSD). These records include: status reports; reports; meetings notes; and background information on the Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program related to Water Resources Management. A small amount of correspondence from 1999 related to a proposed Social Development Trust Fund funded by Japan is also included.
Records relating to funds managed or overseen by ESSDVP are also included. Records related to the launch and subsequent Donor Councils of the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund are included; correspondence related to this Fund is also included. In addition, the series also contains correspondence files for the Prototype Carbon Fund.
A variety of records related to the general management of ESSD-related trust funds is also included. These include: records related to fund allocation and transfer; a list of task managers and division chiefs for specific, ESSD-related trust fund projects; and notes, slides and announcement emails for a Trust Fund Awareness Training program organized by the ESSDVP.
Series consists of records related to management and oversight activities of ESSDVP. Records primarily relate to high-level meetings attended by ESSD Vice President Ian Johnson within ESSD as well as other units and committees of the World Bank. This includes meetings with Bank President Wolfensohn and Managing Director Shengman Zhang as well as meetings of the Bank's Operational Vice Presidents. Records from Bank-wide Corporate Days (1998-2002) and Strategic Forums (2000-2001) are also included. These records include: background notes (prepared for ESSDVP Ian Johnson by ESSD staff); presentation notes and slides; correspondence; progress reports; agendas; and follow-up materials.
Records related to management and organizational meetings of the ESSD include: ESSD Council meetings (2001-2003); ESSD Anchor meetings (2000-2001, 2003); ESSD FY02-04 Business Planning MD/VP Meeting; ESSD FY04-06 Strategic Planning; ESSD Knowledge Management strategy (1998-2000); and ESSD Management Retreats (including EnvironmentSector Board retreat [2002]) and Team Meetings.
Series consists of records related to ESSD Vice President Ian Johnson's attendance and participation at various conferences, seminars, and workshops organized by governments, agencies, and institutions external to the Bank. Records include: correspondence; briefing notes; agendas; list of participants; presentation notes; background papers and speeches written by Johnson or by other attendees; pamphlets; travel itineraries; and speakers' biographies.
Series consists of records related to ESSD and Bank-wide policy and guidelines development. In some cases, ESSDVP and Vice President Ian Johnson played active roles in the development of policy and guidelines while in others reports and correspondence were forwarded to ESSDVP for comment or for informational purposes. The series contains some records that evidence the formation of institutional rules and policies, namely Operational Policy and Business Practice (OP/BP). However, the majority of records in this series are the product of ESSDVP research and information exchange on various topics for the purpose of writing reports, planning projects, or developing relationships with external agencies, institutions, and governments.
The series contains a significant amount of records related to the development and evaluation of OP/BP. Records related to Bank forestry policy are numerous and include: a copy of Forest Policy Implementation Review and Strategy (OP/BP 4.36); a copy of Revised Forestry Strategy for the World Bank Group; minutes of an ad hoc group on the topic; ESSD Council meeting minutes on the topic; related correspondence; and an inventory of projects having to do with the topic. Series also contains records related to OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement and OP/BP 13.05 Guidelines for Projects Supervision. These include: correspondence; drafts of policy; and comments made by ESSDVP staff.
Records of the Operational Policy Committee Meeting from 1999 to 2002 are also included; records discuss OP/BP and guideline development. Records include: minutes; agendas; reports; comments; correspondence; and supporting materials.
Records in this series that do not relate to the development of specific policy may relate to ESSDVP and Ian Johnson's involvement in the research and writing of guidelines, reports, and evaluations but may also be limited to providing comments or receiving reports and correspondence for informational purposes. Topics include but are not limited to: human rights; indigenous peoples; safeguard policies; social development strategic directions; civil society; disaster management; water management and infrastructure; food assessment; climate change; desertification and drylands management; fisheries; commodity price risk management; global public policy; investment in energy infrastructure; promoting sustainability in development ; and Green procurement. Records on these topics include but are not limited to: final and draft versions of reports; comments from ESSDVP and, most often, Vice President Johnson; correspondence; meeting agendas and minutes; and briefing notes. Records from meetings and workshops attended and, in some cases, participated in by Johnson are included. These records include event and background materials and Johnson's notes.
A small amount of files contain records forwarded to Johnson from the Social Development Department (SDV) of ESSD. Topics of these records include: NGO/Bank relations; community driven development; cultural development; civil society; and post conflict development. Records generally include reports and correspondence.
Records related to Johnson's activities involving the Global Environment Facility (GEF) are also included, although small in number. These include correspondence and informational reports forwarded to Johnson and materials from replenishment meetings attended by Johnson.
The series also contains final reports and other records that the Operations Evaluation Department (OED, now the Independent Evaluation Group [IEG]) created that relate either directly to ESSD or to topics relevant to ESSD's sectors. OED reports found in this series include: OED Review of the Bank's Performance on the Environment (2001, draft, accompanied by presentation slides); Phase I Interim Report: 'Promoting Environmental Sustainability in Development: An Evaluation of the World Bank's Performance' (2000); Safeguard Policy Framework: OED Comments on Systemic Issues (2000); OED Forest Strategy Review (2000); OED Review of the World Bank Forest Strategy and Its Implementation (2000); The World Bank and Global Public Policies and Programs: An Evaluation Strategy (2001); How Far into the Mainstream? A Review of Environmental Issues in IDA Activities (2001); IDA's Partnership for Poverty Reduction (FY94-FY00) (2001); and OED IDA Review: Environmental Sustainability Issues in IDA 10-12 (2000). A number of reports on Forest Development and World Bank Assistance related to specific countries (China, India, and Brazil) are also included and are accompanied by briefing materials. Records that accompany reports include comments from ESSDVP and sector department staff as well as correspondence. A small amount of correspondence and reports forwarded to ESSDVP for informational purposes that relate to the Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE) are also included in this series.
Series consists of briefing reports prepared by the ESSDVP and its sector departments for World Bank President James Wolfensohn. Records also include research materials used in the creation of the briefs (including reports, biographical information, and correspondence) as well as correspondence discussing brief requirements and meeting details. Briefs were created in preparation for the President's meetings with representatives from non-governmental organizations (NGOs), government agencies, and other external agencies and institutions. Topics include: climate change; environmental law; resettlement policy; environmental and social safeguard policy; agriculture science and technology; food security; climate change; biodiversity; energy; dams and water resources; forest policy; and empowerment, culture, and civic engagement.
A small number of letters drafted by the ESSDVP for the President's signature are also included in this series.
Series consists of correspondence files created by the ESSDVP. All of the correspondence in this series was authored by, addressed to, or forwarded to ESSD Vice Presidents Ismail Serageldin and Ian Johnson. There are, however, different forms of correspondence. Numbered correspondence in the form of a Lotus Notes log book is the most voluminous; these records span March 1998 to July 1999 and include correspondence to and from both Serageldin and Johnson. Correspondence of similar type, but that was not managed under the log book system, is included from 1999 to 2001 and is exclusively authored by or addressed to Johnson. Included in these records are a small number of short briefing notes authored by Johnson and/or the ESSDVP for the World Bank President. Memoranda files created in 2000 to 2001 are also included in this series as are a small number of records filed separately that only contain correspondence between the ESSDVP and the World Bank President between 1999 and 2001. The latter contains correspondence related to event and meeting attendance and planning, information exchange, briefing reports, and letters written by the ESSDVP for the President's signature.
The fonds consists of records that reflect the various activities of the environment sector in the World Bank. The majority of the records in this fonds were created or received by the Environment Department's Global Environment Unit (ENVGC) and relate to the coordination of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (MLF). These records date from the beginning of the Bank's involvement with the organizations and the creation of the ENVGCin 1991. Included are GEF-affiliated project files prepared by the project task manager and sent to the ENVGC for recordkeeping. For Bank-related projects, ENVGC serves as the liaison between the project task manager and GEF, and the files correspond to the task manager's files in the regional units. In most instances the ENVGC files will consist of records documenting project identification, negotiation and project agreement; records from the implementation phase of the project are usually not forwarded to ENVGC, although the project completion report often is. Dozens of projects are represented in the fonds; however, records related to the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System are particularly numerous. A small number of chronological files created by the Environment technical departments of the Banks' Regions that were implementing GEF projects in its earliest years (from 1990 to 1992) are included.
The fonds also consists of records that document the ENVGC's role as GEF Trustee. Records of this type documentrelationships between the ENVGC and agencies internal and external to the Bank with regard to GEF funding, projects, and operations. Copies of agreements and contracts, terms and conditions, memoranda of understanding, and annual and financial reports are also included. The fonds also contains records related to the formation and monitoring of GEF and MLF budgets and work programs. Included are the final versions of the annual budget, the mid-year review, work program, disbursement reports, and budget-related correspondence. Also included are working files consisting of memoranda and individual transaction records related to the implementation of the budget. Annual regional retrospective reviews submitted by region offices are also included.
Correspondence, research materials, and reports pertaining to the development and implementation of GEF policies, procedures, and standards are also included. Included are ad hoc studies performed to inform GEF participants on various topics. Also included are records relating to GEF council meetings and bilateral consultations and meetings; these consist of minutes, information documents, work programs, and executive summaries. Also included are records relating to conventions, forums, conferences, retreats, workshops, planning meetings, informal consultations, and Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) meetings.
A significant number of GEF-related ENVGC records were created or collected by one of ENVGC's GEF Operations Coordinators, Ken Newcombe. Newcombe's chronological files from the early 1990s are also included. The chronological files of Ian Johnson during his time as Administrator/Assistant CEO of GEF are also included; these date from 1993 to 1996. Chronological files of Hans Wyss from this period are also included. Wyss worked out of the African Technical Department (AFT) and the Central Operations Department (COD).
The fonds also contains a smaller amount of records related to the Montreal Protocol (MP) and the MLF. Included are correspondence and reports related to Bank-managed or executed projects performed under the MP as well as agendas, minutes, reports and correspondence related to meetings and coordination activities. The majority of the meeting records are Executive Committee records. Also included in this fonds are chronological files of the ENVGC from between 1996 and 2003 that relate specifically to the Montreal Protocol.
The fonds also contains records evidencing liaison activities of ENV. Communications with NGOs, Bank Regions, funding and collaborating agencies, and other external national and international agencies and institutions are included.
A diverse group of records created by the Environment Department's Carbon Finance Unit (ENVCF) are also found in this fonds. Carbon finance-related activities began in the Department in the late 1990s and support the World Bank's role as trustee of carbon funds that deliver greenhouse gas emission reductions to government and private sector participants. Records related to the ENVCF date from the late 1990s to early 2000s and include: chronological files; materials from Bank-organized and external conferences and seminars; organization and management records; public relations materials in the form of press releases, newspaper clippings, website printouts, and correspondence; ENVCF manuals, publications, and handbooks; briefing books for senior officials containing correspondence and memoranda, briefings, meeting agendas and minutes, reports and comments, and numerous files related to the Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF); records related to Activities Implemented Jointly (AIJ) projects and trust fund cycle records; and correspondence related to trust fund programs and management.
Subject files created by the Environment Department's Director (ENVDR) dating from the mid-1990s are included in this fonds. Files contain correspondence and memoranda, meeting minutes, press releases, project information, and reports and research papers. Records originating in the Land, Water and Natural Habitats Division (ENVLW) of the Environment Department are also included. These include Division Chief chronological files from 1993 and centralized chronological files from 1991-1993. The former is limited to correspondence and memoranda while the latter includes a small number of reports in addition to correspondence.
Central chronological files of the entire Department are also included from August, 1992, to December, 1995. These records consist of correspondence between divisions, ESD departments, and other Bank Vice Presidencies and units. Records relate to: support and review of Bank projects; research projects; GEF activities; Departmental personnel and staffing; internal and external meetings; cross support; training for Bank staff relating to Environmental management; and staff conference attendance and participation. Copies of reports including ENV Divisional working papers and World Bank Environment papers are also included.
The fonds consists of budget, work program, planning, management, and organization records related to FPD and its subordinate departments of PSD, FSD, and IEN.
The series includes budget, business plan, and work program records. The bulk of the records are Private Sector Development Department (PSD) budget records detailing funding for PSD related units for fiscal year 1996. The budget records include: correspondence; memoranda; trust fund letters of representation; budget reports and charts; and travel expense reports. Budget records related to PSD resource mobilization and funding units of the Private Sector Financial Operations Group (CFSPS) and its successor the Private Sector Development and Privatization Group (PSDPS) are also included for the fiscal year 1996. Budget and work program records for FPD involvement with the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP) program are included for fiscal years 1995 and 1996. CGAP records include: correspondence; memoranda; budget reports and charts; progress reports; staff and consultant hiring records; and travel expense reports. Records related to the overall planning, management, and organization of FPD and its subordinate departments are also included for fiscal years 1994 to 1996. These records include: correspondence and memoranda between FPD Vice President Jean Francois Rischard and the directors and staff from each department; quarterly, mid-year, and retrospective review reports; staff lists; trust fund budget reports; FPD themes and prospects reports; business plans; and work programs.
The fonds consists primarily of Economic and Sector Work (ESW) records produced by the various financial sector development department, division, and unit incarnations, including: the Financial Development Unit (INDFD) and the Financial Development Division (INDFD) located in the Industry Department (IND) of the Energy and Industry Vice Presidency (EIS) from 1983 to 1987; the Financial Policy and Systems Division (CECFP) located in the Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC) from 1987 to 1992; the Financial Sector Development Department (FSD) located in the Finance and Private Sector Development Vice Presidency (FPDVP) from 1993 to 1997; the FSD located in the Finance, Private Sector Development, and Infrastructure Network (FPSI) from 1997 to 1998; the FSD located in the Financial Operations Vice Presidency (FIOVP) from 1999; and the FSD located in the Financial Sector Vice Presidency (FSEVP) from 1999 to 2001. ESW work was done on a country-wide basis and usually performed in collaboration with financial and economic operational staff located in regional offices of the Bank. Reports produced from ESW research helped inform subsequent financial sector development policy and lending decisions utilized for financial sector reform.
The financial sector development ESW records consist of country mission research records with extensive background research, including: newspaper clippings, journals, and articles related to financial sector issues; and statistical and financial data, research studies, annual reports, financial statements, and financial laws and regulations reports published by the central bank of a specific country, a particular country ministry office, or by other financial institutions specific to a country. External and Bank produced financial sector reports and studies specific to a country are also included with research records. The records also consist of ESW mission planning, reporting, and proposal records, including: project proposals; project initiating memoranda; back-to-office reports; mission reports; mission notes; terms-of-reference; project appraisal reports; and aide-memoires. Correspondence and memoranda between financial sector development devoted units, regional staff, and members of financial ministries or other financial sector institutions within in a country are also included.
The ESW records also consist of the reports and records produced after ESW mission work, which relate to subsequent financial sector development policy and lending decisions. This includes meetingagenda and minutes for meetings between financial sector ESW collaborators, and also reporting to the Executive Board of Directors, the Office of the President (EXC), and other World Bank officials concerning financial sector ESW progress, policy development, and lending. The ESW records additionally contain country analysis and case study reports produced from ESW research. The reports focus on financial sector related issues, such as: bank restructuring and privatization; capital market development; financial sector infrastructure; pension reform; financial laws and regulations; and insurance. Financial sector lending proposals, reports, and loan agreement records are also included for numerous types of financial sector development loan programs, including: Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs); Sector Adjustment Loans (SADs); Technical Assistance Loans (TA); and Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loans (FESAL).
The fonds also consists of records from the conferences, seminars, and workshops organized or attended by financial sector development related units of the CECFP from 1987 to 1992 and the FSD department of the Finance and Private Sector Development Vice Presidency (FPDVP) from 1993 to 1997. The records include speech transcripts of presenters from CECFP, FSD, and presenters from outside agencies or other World Bank units. The records also consist of printed presentation slides, transparencies, and conference and seminar programs. CECFP and FSD organized workshop and seminar records include correspondence regarding planning and post reporting of events, training materials, presentation slides, and speech transcripts. Topics of conferences, seminars, and workshops cover financial sector related issues, such as banking, payment systems, regulation, restructuring, and supervision of financial conglomerates.
Chronological correspondence files maintained for FSD within the FPDVP from 1993 to 1997 are also included in the fonds. These files consists of incoming and outgoing correspondence that cover numerous topics including: support of country missions; ESW operational work; financial development policy reports; lending instruments proposals; and FSD management and organization.
The fonds also consist of background records related to operational policy "OP 8.30 - Financial Sector Operations", which was adopted by the World Bank in 1992 as an operational directive "OD 8.30 -Financial Sector Operations", and revised and adopted as an operational policy in 1998. The records include extensive correspondence and memoranda with attachments, including draft "OD/OP 8.30" policy revisions from April 1991 to November 1997. The correspondence and memoranda are primarily between FSD staff, Development Economics Vice Presidency (DEC) staff, the Office of the President (EXC), and members of the Operations Policy Committee. Background reports on financial sector work within the Bank are also included. The records also include meeting minutes and agenda for the Operational Policy Committee and the Board of Executive Directors.
The fonds additionally includes records of Diana McNaughton from when she served as the Senior Manager for FSD within the FPDVP from 1993 to 1997. The records consist of her presentation materials, including: printed slides, transparencies, speech transcripts, background research, and correspondence regarding presentation preparation. The presentation records focus on numerous topics, such as bank restructuring, capital market development, and financial sector reform. The records also include theplanning records, training module materials, and correspondence for seminars and workshops organized by FSD or attended by McNaughton as part of FSD liaison with external organizations. The records also consist of management and organization records related to FSD. This includes correspondence, meeting minutes, and agenda for FSD planning retreats; business and strategic framework plans related to the FSD activities of bank and enterprise restructuring, finance intermediation, capital markets development, and financial sector infrastructure; and reporting presentations planned for the Executive Board of Directors of the World Bank Group.
The fonds also includes the records of Rodney Lester from when he served as Lead Specialist for FSD within the Financial Sector Vice Presidency (FSEVP) from 1999 to 2001. Most records are related to the Economic Sector Work (ESW) and Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) country projects. This includes reference material, including: annual reports; financial statistical data reports; and financial statements produced by numerous country central banks, country offices, or other financial institutions within that country for both ESW and FSAP projects. FSAP records additionally include IMF produced FSAP country reports and terms-of-reference reports. Lester's records also include background correspondence focused on the Bank Crisis Management Program of FSD from 1993 to 1998, and records related to the East Asia Financial Crisis of 1997. Lastly, the Lester records also consist of Strategic Compact planning records for the financial sector development operations of the World Bank from 1994 to 1999. This includes Executive Board of Directors meeting minutes and agenda, business plans, work programs, progress reports, and implementation plans related to organization and planning of financial sector functions and activities within the Bank.
Lastly, similar to the Rodney Lester records, more extensive records related to the FSAP country projects are also included in the fonds for the years 2000 to 2007. These records include: annual reports, financial and statistical data reports, and financial regulation and laws reports produced by numerous country central banks, country offices, or other financial institutions within that country. The records also consist of technical notes, and FSAP reports produced jointly by the IMF Monetary and Financial Systems Department and the World Bank Financial Sector Vice Presidency (FSEVP). Project mission terms-of-reference, back-to-office reports, and aide memoire reporting records are also included for FSAP records.
The fonds consists of records that relate to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Secretariat's various activities. The majority of the fonds consists of GEF project files. Project types include the Small Grants Programme, Enabling Activities, medium-sized projects (MSP), and full-sized projects (FSPs). These records reflect GEF project cycle activities. Records include: reports; correspondence; forms; concept agreements; focal area work program documents; CEO endorsement; evaluation and review documents;terminal report; and other documents generated by the project cycle from concept development stage to its closure.
Records related to GEF's role in operational monitoring and assessment of GEF projects are included. The responsibility is shared between GEF and the implementing agencies. GEF's activities include: overall project evaluation; operational programs evaluation; evaluation of GEF practices and activities; and thematic reviews and assessments. GEF's Monitoring and Evaluation unit (GEFME) also contributes to the formation of Global and Regional Agreements and organizes and participates in workshops and other knowledge sharing activities. Records included here are generally unpublished materials including drafts, working papers, statistical information and other records related to the work of GEFME.
The fonds also consists of policy, procedures, and standards development and business strategy records. Records generally consist of correspondence, reports, research, ad hoc studies on various topics, and other records pertaining to the development and implementation of GEF policies, procedures, and standards.
Also included are records related to GEF's Focal Area programs. These records relate to: program operations; program strategy; program indicators and methodologies; capacity development initiatives; cross-team support; taskforce meetings; conventions; seminars; training; and the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP). Records include: correspondence; reports; policy papers; reports to management; publications; and other materials.
This fonds also consists of corporate affairs and liaison records. Included is correspondence and reports that document GEF's relationship with client communities and stake holders, including: implementing agencies; executing agencies; STAP; donor countries; the private sector; and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Also included are records related to GEF's participation in the various conventions of which it acts as the financial mechanism. Records include: copies of agreements and contracts; terms and conditions; memoranda of understanding; annual and financial reports; and records related to replenishment. Included in this fonds are records created during meetings of GEF Council, GEF Assembly and other standing and ad hoc groups of GEF, including: Participants meeting; various taskforces and working groups; special donor meetings; and project review meetings. Records include: minutes; agendas; reports; Terms of Reference; supporting or background documentation; summaries of proceedings; member lists; intercessional decision reports; and speeches and statements made by GEF representatives. Audio and video recordings of some of the meetings are included in the fonds.
Records related to communications and outreach are also included. The majority of these records are a collection of magazine, journal, and newspaper articles that refer to the GEF. Issues of GEF's newsletter, Talking Points, are included, as are records related to GEF representatives' participation in seminars, meetings, and other events.
Also included are the chronological correspondence files of the GEF CEO, deputy CEO, and Secretariat from between 1992 and 2004. Communications to Council from the CEO and Secretariat from 1993 to 1997 are also included.
The majority of the records in this fonds are chronological files created by the HROVP. Most of the contents of these files are correspondence to and from institutions, agencies, governments, and departments external and internal to the Bank. The fonds also includes records which relate to communications as well as governance-related activities of the HROVP.
Series consists of chronological files created primarily by the HROVP. Records date from February 1994, to December 1995; records from July to December 1995 are from the Human Development Department (HDD). The majority of the records found in these files are correspondence. Correspondence to and from external agencies, institutions, and governments generally relates to information exchange, collaborations on projects and research, and conference attendance. Correspondence to and from other departments and vice presidencies in the World Bank is also included. This relates to information exchange, collaborations on projects and research, and conference attendance as well as to HRO's contributions to Country Assistance Strategy reports and participation in meetings. Records also include back-to-office reports, discussion of HRO human resource issues, and comments on HRO staff reports and programs. Records related to the Bank's 50th anniversary activities are also included; these records were created or receivedby the secretariat established in the HRO (HROAN) responsible for anniversary activity's coordination.
Series consists of records relating to the dissemination of reports authored by the staff of HRO and its departments. Series also includes records relating to a seminar on Gender and Development organized by HRO.
Series consists of records relating to activities of the HROVP including staffing, policy development, and resource distribution.
This sub-fonds consists of records from the Education and Social Policy Department (ESP) and its successors the Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP) and the Poverty, Gender, and Public Sector Management Department (PGP). Records include chronological files created by ESP, PSP, and PGP. Records related to the Annual Progress Report on Poverty (APPR) and the ESP/PSP Discussion Paper Series are also included. The sub-fonds additionally includes subject and activity files maintained for PSP/PGP Director Ishrat Husain. The sub-fonds also includes PSP briefing letters prepared for World Bank senior officials and records related to conferences, seminars, symposiums, workshops, and meetings organized and attended by PSP staff.
This series consists of the subject and activity files of Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP) and Poverty, Gender, and Public Sector Management Department (PGP) Director Ishrat Husain. The records in this series were used as reference for Husain as well as support for the activities of PSP and PGP sector teams and groups. Records include: memoranda; correspondence; agenda; meeting minutes; working papers; and policy paper drafts for numerous working groups, task forces, and policy development committees focused on a particular topic or project.
The series additionally consists of PSP budget records consisting of: correspondence; memoranda; Draft Discussion Notes from Human Capital Development and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (HCO); and PSP business work plans for fiscal years 1997 to 1999. Additional records include correspondence and memoranda related to the mapping of PSP/PGP Groups into the HDN, ESSD, and PREM Networks. Other planning records include: PSP Week correspondence from May 1996; "Next Step Action Program" correspondence and memoranda from fiscal years 1996 to 1999; and correspondence, memoranda, reports, and handbooks related to designing performance and poverty monitoring indicators for PSP and World Bank operations poverty reduction monitoring efforts from 1993 to 1996.
The series also includes records related to PSP's predecessor Education and Social Policy Department (ESP) inherited by PSP/PGP Director Ishrat Husain. This includes correspondence and memoranda related to ESP's planning and compliance to poverty reduction policies outlined in IDA 9 and IDA 10 Agreements dated 1992 and 1993. Additional correspondence and memoranda address the following topics: performance indicators; subnational indicators; and social funds. It also includes records related to the "Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI)" pursued by ESP in 1993. Records detailing procedures of ESP and Human Resources Development and Operations Policy Vice Presidency (HRO) are also included for the years 1992 to 1995, but some PSP correspondences are interfiled after 1996. A speech transcript file consisting of speeches given by ESP and PSP staff, the HROVP, other World Bank unit staff and officials, and Ishrat Husain are also included for the years 1992 to 1996.
This series includes letters prepared by PSP staff for signature or briefing for the Human Capital Development (HCD) Vice President Armeane M. Choski from May 1996 to October 1996, and letters prepared for World Bank President James D. Wolfensohn from June 1995 to September 1996. The letters are related to the functions and activities of the Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP).
This series consists of records from conferences, seminars, symposiums, workshops, and meetings organized or participated in by the Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP). Some seminars, workshops, and meetings are organized by the specific teams or groups of PSP. Other events are organized in collaboration with NGOs, outside agencies, or other World Bank units. The records include: memoranda; correspondence; agenda and minutes; itineraries; printouts of presentation slides; speech transcripts; articles; programs; brochures; PSP produced reports; external reports; and post event follow-up reports. The events organized solely by PSP or one of its teams or groups contain planning records, such as proposed events, speakers, content, and budget information.
The series contains chronological files created by: the Education and Social Policy Department (ESP); the Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP); and the Poverty, Gender, and Public Sector Management Department (PGP). Two separate sets of departmental chronological files are contained in this series: one for ESP; and another for PSP and PGP. The ESP chronological files consist of records related to: policy development; departmental contributions to external projects, reviews, and policy development; conference and seminar attendance and participation; and assistance to and collaboration with the Regions. Records include: memoranda; meeting briefing notes, agendas, and minutes; comments on research and policy papers and Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) papers; Terms of Reference; back-to-office reports; and progress reports. The ESP departmental chronological files are mostly correspondence with attachments and memoranda between ESP Director Kingsley Y. Amoako, ESP staff, and other World Bank units. Records within ESP departmental chronological files from July 1995 to December 1995 contain records created and received by both ESP and PSP, due to the transition period of ESP staff into PSP.
The separate PSP/PGP departmental chronological files consist of similar records between PSP/PGP Director Ishrat Husain, PSP staff, PGP staff, and other World Bank units. Additional PSP chronological files were also maintained for incoming and outgoing correspondence between Husain and external agencies and individuals from May 1995 to May 1997. Incoming and outgoing faxes and emails files between Husain, PSP staff, and other World Bank units are maintained from July 1995 to May 1997. PSP correspondence and memoranda from mid-1996 discuss the mapping of PSP Groups into the HD, ESSD, and PREM Networks. PGP related records are contained in chronological files dated January 1997 to May 1997 when PGP was temporarily created to transition into the PREM Network.
This series consists of discussion papers produced by staff in the Education and Social Policy Department (ESP) and the Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP) for the departments Discussion Paper Series. The Discussion Paper Series includes papers on numerous topics related to the functions of ESP and PSP. The papers produced for this Series were not meant to be published as final products or reports, but were intended to stimulate discussion and comment internally among ESP and PSP staff, and provide up to date analysis to operational staff. The discussion papers also served as preliminary analysis for subsequent policy and best practice papers meant for publication and dissemination to an external audience.
This series includes records related to the Annual Poverty Progress Report (APPR) prepared by the Education and Social Policy Department (ESP) and the Poverty and Social Policy Department (PSP). At the request of the Bank's Executive Board of Directors and the Office of the President (EXC), the ESP was given the responsibility of producing an annual report that gauged the progression of the Poverty Reduction Strategy outlined in the Bank's World Development Report (WDR) 1990: Poverty. The APPRs were scheduled to be published for the fiscal years 1993 to 1995. The reports were prepared by the Monitoring Unit of the Poverty Analysis and Policy team in ESP and later PSP. The bulk of poverty progress information was collected from the poverty assessment reports and assessment summaries produced by operational staff in the Regional Vice Presidencies. The APPRs were presented to the Executive Board, the Operational Policy Committee (OPC), and EXC for comment, review, and approval. The APPRs were then used as the official publication for dissemination to audiences external to the Bank, and were subsequently presented at Poverty Dissemination Seminars organized by the World Bank in partnership with various international development agencies, NGOs, government agencies, and academic institutions.
The records in this series includes background history and reference material on the Poverty Reduction Strategy and the 1990 WDR, including: a copy of the policy paper "Assistance Strategies to Reduce Poverty" (1991); and memoranda, agenda, meeting minutes, and a communiqu? related to the joint IMF and World Bank Development Committee from April 1992 regarding reporting on the Poverty Reduction Strategy. The records additionally consist of APPR drafts for 1992 to 1995, and a published APPR copy of the Poverty Reduction and the World Bank: Progress and Challenges in the 1990s for fiscal year 1995. Memoranda, correspondence, and back-to-office reports detail meetings with the Executive Board, OPC, and EXC related to the APPRs, and follow-up actions taken by ESP and PSP. Numerous World Bank press releases and external articles related to the APPRs are also included.
The series also includes records related to the Poverty Dissemination Seminars attended by World Bank staff in Europe from 1993 to 1994. These records consist of: memoranda; agenda and meeting minutes; correspondence; invitation letters to participants; speech transcripts of World Bank staff; external reports on poverty issues; and copies of the World Bank published APPRs. The memoranda and correspondence consist of planning arrangements between ESP/ PSP and other World Bank units for seminars. Other memoranda and correspondence are post--seminar reports or summaries of responses to the APPR from external organizations and individuals.
This fonds consists of records created by the departments and vice presidencies that were responsible for World Bank operations in Central and South America and the Caribbean.
Country operational records: The majority of the records of this fonds are country operational records. These records broadly consist of project records relating to the negotiation and administration of loans and general country records relating to economic and sector study. These records were created by Area Departments (1947-1972), Country Departments (CDs, 1972-1997) and Country Management Units (CMUs, 1997-) as well as Regional project departments (1972 - 1987), technical departments (1987 - 1997), and sector departments (1997 - ).
Project records: Records related to the Bank's projects overseen by the LCR are contained in the "Country operational records" series. These records relate to investment, structural adjustment, and other development projects financed, co-financed, or managed by the Bank. Note that projects funded or co-funded by external bodies such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), national governments, and trust funds and which were executed by the Bank are also included.
Information about specific projects from their conception through negotiation and completion is found in this series; records relating to all phases of the World Bank Project Cycle are included here. Project records contained in this fonds were created by both the unit identified as the designated record keeping unit within the Region and, in smaller number, the Regional units that provided project support. Included are records relating to not only completed projects but also to abandoned projects (i.e. projects that were abandoned in course of preparation or that failed to gain Board approval) and suspended projects (i.e. approved projects, including those partially disbursed, which have been suspended and not resumed). Records related to the discussion and negotiation of projects that were never initiated are also included.
Correspondence files make up the bulk of the project records and relate to the identification, preparation, appraisal, negotiation, approval, supervision, disbursement of funds, completion, and review of each individual project. Correspondence is in the form of letters, memoranda, telexes, and faxes. Accompanying materials most often include aide-memoires, minutes of meetings, Terms of Reference, back-to-office reports, etc. Correspondence is between the Bank and government officials, ambassadors, institutions, and consultants.
Project records may also include: Project Files documents; Project Implementation Index File (PIIF) documents; executive project summary/project concept documents; annual progress reports; supplemental documents; consultant reports; supervision reports; and final versions of mandatory reports. Note that reports included in this fonds are occasionally available through the Bank's Projects & Operations site. A small amount of project-related newspaper clippings, financial statements, photographs, hand-written notes, maps, engineering plans, and copies of loan agreements and related documents may also be found, as well. External documents received from borrowers, governments, consultants, etc., including studies, reports, plans, specifications, Project File documents, PIIF documents, etc., are also included.
Country Economic and Sector Work (ESW) records: General country files are also included in the "Country operational series". These refer to background correspondence and other records of the Region's support activities for IBRD/IDA lending programs, other than those maintained for individual loans and credits. These relate to economic, social, and sector work study and analysis and the development of sector and country programs, policies and strategies. Specifically, these records might relate to: capital markets; indebtedness; investment law; missions to the country; technical assistance; disbursement; government relations; inquiries; local bond issues; country liaison; programs and missions; resident representatives; Country Program Papers (CPP) preparation; and Project Implementation Review (PIR). Records relating to and filed according to the various sectors of investment are also included. In each series, sector files may include but are not limited to: agriculture; education; energy; industrial development and finance; industry; population; health; nutrition; telecommunications; tourism; transportation; urban development; water and sewage; and social development. General country filerecords take the form of correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, notes for files, briefing papers, back-to-office reports, aide-memoires, briefing papers, and reports. Records relating to analytical and advisory activities (AAA) and the related collection of data for these activities may also be included.
Country-specific records relating to country program management are also included in the country operational record series. These records were maintained primarily by the Country Department headquarter units and were used to document Bank Group assistance planning and strategy for each country. Records may pertain to the creation of Bank reports such as: the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); Country Briefs; Country Strategy Papers; Country Economic Memoranda; Medium Term Framework Papers; and policy statements. These records take the form of: agendas; briefings and reports of country team meetings; final versions of reports; and background materials used in the preparation of reports. Briefing papers prepared for Annual Meetings and other reports to management may also be included.
Also included are informational records related to each country and to development issues specific to that country. These records primarily contain externally created reference material, although a small amount of internally generated material (such as speeches and addresses and material related to internally sponsored conferences and seminars) may also be included. Reference materials may include: lists of government officials; information on external consultants; newspaper clippings related to country matters; press releases related to Bank and country activities; correspondence with government officials and/or ministries; and documents related to the operations of field offices in the country. Also included, in small amounts, are books, journals, magazines, articles, extracts, directories, manuals, handbooks, guides, and dissertations originating from elsewhere in the Bank Group or of external origin. Topics include common development sectors (agriculture, transportation, education, etc.) as well as: resettlement; indigenous peoples; participation; Global Environment Facility (GEF); World Bank operation policies; country politics, legislation, and economic situation; and natural resource management. Also includes some reports and other resources relating to countries and regions outside of Latin America.
Regional operational records: Operational records related to the Latin America & Caribbean region are also includedin this fonds. Included are the project records of projects that span more than a single country, such as the founding of new regional banks, the establishment of a common market, tourism projects, and the creation of regional infrastructure, such as roads, ports, electric power generation and telecommunications. The types of project-related records are similar to those described in the "Country operational records" series section above. Also included are general records related to economic, social and sector work study and analysis and the development of sector and regional programs, policies and strategies. In terms of topic and form, these records are similar to the general records of the country operational series described above; this includes records related to sector study and development and analytical and advisory activities (AAA). However, records relate to either the region as a whole or to multi-country areas of the region. Also included are records relating to multilateral institutions that worktogether with the Bank.
External aid coordination: Series consists of records relating to the development and implementation of aid coordination activities not specific to projects, such as cofinancing arrangements, donor meetings, consultative group meetings, and Country Team meetings. Records originate in country and sector departments and relate to cooperative relationships between the Bank Group and donors, cofinanciers, development agencies, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and other concernedorganizations. Specifically, records may relate to: collaborative development assistance; Bank-sponsored seminars and conferences; cofinancing and trust funds; the Consultant Trust Fund Program (CTFP); and external funding for consultants. Records may include: copies of agreements and other legal documents; initiating briefs; reports and memoranda concerning disbursement of cofinanced funds; periodic reports to cofinanciers; and other related materials.
The series also contains records documenting the establishment, proceedings and activities of the consultative groups convened and chaired by the Bank to assess and coordinate external financial assistance and which the Bank provided secretarial support to. These include the Colombia Consultative Group (1962) as well as consultative groups for Brazil (1966), Peru (1966), Bolivia (1977), Honduras (1988), Guatemala (1989), El Salvador (1991), Nicaragua (1994), Haiti (1996), and Costa Rica (1998). Many of the consultative groups met bi-annually for several successive years or longer than a decade such as Colombia and Peru, with Bank staff leading smaller sector or local consultative meetings in between the bi-annual donor group meetings. Files contain a large body of correspondence between the country department staff, the chairman who was typically the Area of Country Director, and members of the consultative groups including the recipient country. Correspondence includes copies of outgoing memoranda and letters, cables, original letters from member government officials (some addressed to the Bank President), notes to the file, minutes of pre-consultative group meetings, sector, and/or local meetings organized by country staff in between consultative group meetings, and drafts of documents. Topics covered by the correspondence include policies and practices of the consultative group; its origins and establishment; changes in membership or participation; pledges and terms of aid by donor countries; and collaboration with International Monetary Fund and other multilateral participants or observers.
Also included are the set of official meeting documents of the Bank-chaired consultative groups aforementioned that contain: preliminary meeting summaries, notice of meeting, agenda, list of delegates, Bank-authored or government authored memoranda or economic reports and policy papers, Chairman's report of proceedings, transcripts or verbatim proceedings, participants statements, and press release. Meeting files also contain small amount of administrative correspondence authored by Secretary's Department or the Area or Country Department concerning meeting preparations, distribution of documents, or announcements about participants in attendance of the meetings.
There is also a smaller volume of files relating to consultative meetings of other organizations including the Guyana-led aid group and the Caribbean Group for Economic Cooperation in Development (CGCED) in which the Bank participated beginning in the early 1970s as well as CGCED sub-group consultative or other donor meetings chaired by the department.
Departmental reference materials: Reference materials maintained by Regional departments are included in this fonds. Topics include the various development sectors as well as Bank operational topics such as: project identification; loan procurement; consultants; exports; macroeconomic stability and growth; and private sector assessment.
Department directors' project records (reference): Project file reference copies maintained by the CD and CMU directors' front office are also included in this fonds. These include project-related records circulated from project managers to the departments for information, monitoring, review, or input. These records are arranged by project and then, in most cases, by project cycle component or phase.
Departmental directors' chronological files: Also included are chronological files created and maintained by the directors of CDs and CMUs. Specifically, the records of directors from LCC7C (Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay) and LCC1C (Mexico) are included; records date from 1992 to 1998.
Business plan and budget management records: Fonds includes records relating to business plan and budget management (i.e. planning, implementation, monitoring, and review) activities of the Region. The VP's Chief Administrator's annual budget records are contained in this fonds. These records include Business Plans covering three-year periods as well as Retrospective Reviews. Multi-volume annual budget files created by the Region's budget and administrative units are also included. Records relating to the budgets of Country Departments are also included primarily in the form of correspondence and budget reports and tools. Budget records created by both the Regional VP and Country Departments relating to country field offices are included. A small number of the Region's Budget Committee records from between 1996 and 2000 are also contained in the fonds.
Management and oversight of unit functions: Records relating to the management and oversight of the Region's functional responsibilities, work program, and policy development are included in this fonds. Topics include: work program development; unit policy and procedures; agency structure and organization; management improvement studies; coordination and direction; departmental reviews; Regional objectives and operational directives; and staffing. Records include: work program agreements and monthly reports; research program materials; general correspondence; various task force records including some final reports; unit reviews; LAC evaluation and restructuring records; records of the Region's Resource Management Group; and general correspondence. Records relating to the Funding Coordinators Group (trust funds) are also included.
Front office administration and oversight of field offices: Fonds also includes those records maintained in the Region's front office relating to the activities of the Region's field offices. Records may include: correspondence; reports; and contracts. Records may also relate to: establishment agreements; leases; renovation; capital budget; local staff; resident representatives; mission statement; and other information of substantive nature. Records were created between 1978 and 1993.
VP chronological files: Fonds includes the chronological files of the Region's VP S. Shahid Hussain for the years 1990 to 1992.
Front office reference material: A variety of front office reference material is included in this fonds. This includes a collection of reports and articles created between 1987 and 1995. Topics include: development; governance; Bank-Fund collaboration; Bank operations; information technology; communications; and human resources. Records take the form of: photocopied articles; Bank-authored reports including task force reports; Bank Executive Director memoranda; reports from external institutions; workshop publications; and seminar reports. Also included are subject files of the LAC front office. Records date from 1977 to 1993 and cover a variety of topics related to sector development, operations, budget, other Bank units, and external institutions.
UNDP liaison: Fonds contains records relating to the Region's cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with respect to development planning. Included are UNDP authored country programme records relating to LCR countries. Other reports authored by the UNDP are also included as is correspondence between the Bank concerning development activities in member countries in the Latin America and Caribbean region. Records are organized by country and date from 1981-1996. Note that project records from projects funded in whole or in part by the UNDP but executed by the Bank are included in the country and regional operational record series.
Communications: Also included are records related to the Region's communications activities. These consist of press releases authored by the World Bank dating from 1949 to 1997. Files are arranged by country and relate to: relations between the Bank and member country; projects fundedby the Bank; and other pertinent topics.
Committee records: Fonds contains records relating to a number of committees, task forces, working groups, etc., that establish, recommend, or monitor implementation of policy and procedures and on which the Region or its units are represented or about which they are kept informed. Included are the Reorganization Steering Committee (1988), Evaluation Monitoring Implementation Committee, Operational Committee, and LCR's Office of the Director Filing Project committee.
Training, seminar, and workshop planning and management: Fonds includes records related to the establishment, organization, proceedings, and output of conferences, meetings, seminars, and training organized by LCR units. Records include back-to-office reports, presentation notes and outlines, planning materials, reports, and correspondence. Many of the records relate to events undertaken in conjunction with the World Bank Institute (WBI). Records relating to training, seminars, and workshops organizedby the Region's Environment Unit (LATEN) between 1992 and 1995 are also numerous. These events were organized for both Bank staff at headquarters and at country offices as well as for member governments and other institutions and groups.
Information technology management: Also contained in this fonds are records related to the management of information technology strategy for the Region. Included are files related to regional information strategy such as the LAC Enterprise Network pilot, the LAC communications link, imaging and the IRIS system, and files on LAC modernization and restructuring.
The fonds includes records from research, advising, and policy development sector units oriented towards public sector management and governance functions of the World Bank, and does not include records from technical assistance oriented Regional units related to public sector management and governance. The records include Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Program trust fund records related to funding for projects and activities of the Public Sector Governance Department (PRMPS) for the years 1996 to 2009.
This series contains the records related to the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Program, a multi-donor partnership consisting of the World Bank, the European Commission, the UK Department for International Development (DFID), the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs, the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). PEFA consists of steering committee comprised of members from each of these organizations. A PEFA Secretariat was also located in the World Bank to administer the program. PEFA served as a trust fund program and helped fund much of the activities of the Public Sector Governance Department (PRMPS) of the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PREM). The records in this series are related to PEFA trust fund proposals, planning, and budgeting for public expenditure and public finance management (PFM) projects with PRMPS.
The trust fund records include correspondence and memorandabetween PEFA steering committee members, the PEFA Secretariat Nicola Smithers, and staff of PRMPS, including past Directors Cheryl Gray and Sanjay Pradhan. The records also consist of PEFA steering committee meeting and minutes. Records for proposed public expenditure and PFM projects for PRMPS include assessments specific to a country. The country assessment records include the following specific types of reports, action plans, and application documents: Public Expenditure Review and Rationalization (PERR) report; PEFA Trust Fund Application; Public Expenditure Management Country Assessment and Action Plan; Application of PFM Performance Measurement Framework report; and Financial and Accountability Review and Action Plan (FARAP).
PEFA budget and audit records are also included for PRMPS public expenditure projects and PFM projects. Records are also included for PEFA and PRMPS organized workshops, conferences, and training sessions, which include training manuals, agenda, and participant lists. The seriesalso contain records related to fund disbursement and project agreement, including: initiating brief for trusts fund records, grant letters signed by PEFA donor partners, and grant agreements from the World Bank Development Grant Facility (DGF). Recruitment records consisting of curriculum vitae and terms of reference for consultants and temporary employees are also included.
Records of Vice President of Operations and SVPOP J. Burke Knapp: The fonds includes records maintained by Vice President and Senior Vice President of Operations (SVPOP) J. Burke Knapp. The records include memoranda sent between Knapp and Bank President Robert McNamara from 1967 to 1978. Much of the memoranda are originals authored by Knapp and annotated and sent back by the President. There are also copies of records addressed to McNamara by other staff and copies of minutes of the President's Council or other meetings with the President. The memoranda to the President focus on IBRD and IDA lending programs, papers on financial and lending policy, loan overruns, and other particular loan issues.
Knapp records also include a set of briefs for the 1972 Annual Meeting. The briefs contain briefing memoranda and reports on the politico-economic situation and the Bank's lending program in individual member countries. In preparation for scheduled meetings between the Bank President and the delegations of membercountries, the briefs provide a summarized background for the meeting, talking points for the President, summaries of subjects likely to be raised by the delegation, and a list of delegates. Filed with some of the briefs are related Country Program Papers (CPP). In addition to briefs for individual countries, filed at the beginning of the series are briefs on the African and Latin American Caucuses, the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Records of OPNSV Moeen Qureshi: The fonds also includes records maintained by Senior Vice President of Operations (OPNSV) Moeen Qureshi. The records consist of briefing materials prepared for Qureshi from 1987 to 1991. Briefings cover his foreign travel and any formal meetings he attended in New York or Washington, DC. In addition, there are records for his August 17 - September 8, 1984, trip to London, Pakistan, New Zealand, Australia, and Japan. A typical briefing file contains: Qureshi's itinerary and schedule; biographies of people with whom he would be meeting; outlines, drafts, and copies of speeches he delivered; press releases; correspondence; conference agenda and programs; and background papers regarding the Bank's relationship with the countries visited.
Joint IMF-World Bank Annual Meeting briefs prepared for Qureshi are also included for the years 1988 to 1990. The briefs consist of a separate folder for each day of the Annual Meeting. A typical folder contains Qureshi's schedule for that day and a sub-folder for each event he was scheduled to attend. The briefs also include: lists of delegates attending each event; agenda for meetings; Annual Meeting briefs for each country whose delegation met with Qureshi; talking points for and copies of speeches for Qureshi or President Barber Conable; copies of Conable's schedule for the day; and seating charts.
Qureshi's records also include materials concerning the 1987 Bank-wide reorganization from 1986 to 1989. The records consist of: memoranda exchanged between Conable, Qureshi and members of the Operations Complex regarding implementation of the reorganization plan and specific staff appointments; copies of memoranda from Conable updating Bank staff on the reorganization; records outlining interim personnel procedures; Steering Committee issuances regarding staff selection, redeployment, and redundancy; copies of letters from Conable to specific staff affected by the reorganization; Bank press releases; the Support Unit Task Force Report; and studies completed by an external management consulting firm. Much of the records concern implementation of the reorganization within the Operations Complex. Specific records focus on the Operations Task Force Report, which includes: comments from staff regarding that report; draft position descriptions; and memoranda regarding the staff selection and allocation process.
The Qureshi records also contain records related to country lending operations from 1987 to 1991. The records consist of memoranda, letters, cables, reports, studies, and minutes of meetings regarding the Bank's lending policies in specific countries or, in the case of donor countries, aid coordination. The records also include briefing papers prepared for Qureshi and/or President Conable prior to meetings with country representatives, agenda and minutes of meetings of Qureshi or Conable with country representatives, minutes of meetings of Bank Executive Directors, and Bank mission reports. Much of the records include Qureshi's annotations. Issues discussed in the correspondence include technical assistance, economic reforms, environmental impact of Bank policies, political events in a country and their implication for Bank loans and operations, and special grants in response to natural disasters.
Lastly, incoming and outgoing correspondence and memoranda between Qureshi, the OPNSV Front Office Staff, and members of the Operations Complex are included for the years 1987 to 1989.
Records of Special Assistant Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala: The fonds also includes records maintained by Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala when she served as Special Assistant to the Senior Vice President of Operations (OPNSV) Moeen Qureshi. This includes records maintained by Okonjo-Iweala related to major borrowing countries from 1987 to 1991. These records consist mostly of copies of correspondence and reports on lending operations and recent developments in borrowing countries. Background materials and reports of meetings held between Bank officials and official representatives of the borrowing countries are also included. County Strategy Papers (CSP) are found in some records. Among the most discussed lending issues are structural adjustment, privatization, technical assistance, and late payments. Some of the records contain Okonjo-Iweala's correspondence with the staff from the Regional Vice Presidencies (RVPs) officials, her handwritten and typed notes to Qureshi on lending issues, and her handwritten notes taken at meetings she attended.
Okonjo-Iweala records also consist of business plans for the OperationsComplex from 1989 to 1991. The records consist of internal memoranda and reports detailing planned lending expenditures for FY 1991 to 1993 and FY 1992 to 1994. The business plans are broken down by Region, therein by country and sector with reference to the Bank's country lending strategies. Breakdowns on IBRD versus IDA lending are also given. The business plans are heavily annotated by Okonjo-Iweala.
Okonjo-Iweala records also include memoranda, reports, and correspondence on a variety of operational and administrative matters relating to the functions of the OPNSV from 1989 to 1991. Records related to operational matters include records related to the following topics: cofinancing; private sector development; the IDA Ninth Replenishment; the Gulf crisis; and the Bank's interaction with international organizations. Records related to administrative matters include: preparation for the 1990 Annual Meeting; records related to a Senior Operations mangers' retreat; and records related to pay, annual leave,the staff retirement plan, and actions regarding specific staff members. Filed under "Front Office" are also records regarding administrative matters of security, document formats, and the United Way Campaign. There are also records containing briefing notes for trips undertaken or meetings attended by Qureshi.
Okonjo-Iweala records also includes materials maintained for the Operations Committee (OC) from 1989 to 1991. Arranged by country, most of the records include: Okonjo-Iweala's copies of formal minutes of the OC meetings; her handwritten notes taken when she attended the OC meetings; and postscripts on discussions of Country Strategy Papers (CSP) by the OC. Included with the minutes are copies of CSPs, Initiating Memoranda, and reports and recommendations accompanying requests for loans and credits submitted by the country to the OC. Some draft CSPs submitted to Okonjo-Iweala are annotated with her comments.
Lastly, Okonjo-Iweala records include internal memoranda, correspondence, and reports from 1990, which were primarily sent between her, the OPNSV Moeen Qureshi, the OPNSV Front Office Staff, and members of the Operations Complex.
Records of Senior Adviser, Lending and Budget Operations, Cosmas Linus Robless: The fonds also includes records of Cosmas Linus Robless, who served as Senior Advisor for Lending and Budget Operations to OPNSV Moeen Qureshi, from 1987 to 1991. Records include subject files consisting of: memoranda; correspondence; reports; position papers; and guidelines regarding Operations Complex programs and policies. Other records focus on the topics of: annual sector reviews; the Field Offices Task Force; overdue service payments; the Bank's response to the Gulf Crisis; graduation from the Bank; and program goals for the Operations Complex. Correspondence, memoranda, and reports sent and received by Robless are also included.
Robless records also consist of materials related to the Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures from 1990 to 1991, which sought to improve bank procedures performed by the Bank's Executive Directors (ED) for reviewing country assistance strategies and policy formulation in Bank operations. The records include: correspondence and memoranda; meeting minutes of the Ad Hoc Committee; draft Ad Hoc Committee reports prepared for the EDs; terms of reference prepared for EDs; and work programs prepared for the EDs for consideration.
Lastly, his records also include copies of Country Strategy Paper (CSP) postscripts prepared for the Operations Committee (OC) from 1991. The CSP postscripts summarize the review, and subsequent actions taken by the OC for a particular CSP.
Front office adviser records: The fonds also includes records maintained by various advisers who served in the Front Office for SVPOP Ernest Stern and his successor OPNSV Moeen Qureshi from 1979 to 1989. The front office records reflect the activities of the SVPOP/OPNSV. The records include: SVPOP yellow sheets, or handwritten project lending notes; decision memoranda and comments prepared by advisers on behalf of the SVPOP for the Loan Committee; Loan Committee log book prepared by advisers; board papers, briefs, and schedules prepared for meetings with the Executive Board of Directors; memoranda regarding Project Completion Reports (PCR) submitted to OPNSV from the Central Operations Department (COD); memoranda regarding Women in Development (WID) country assessments submitted to the OPNSV from the Economic Advisory Staff (EAS); working papers submitted to OPNSV from the Policy, Planning, and Research (PPR) Complex for review; standard budget tables submitted to SVPOP from the Division Chief of the Planning and Budget Department (PBD); and memoranda, budget reports, and other records related to liaison with United Nations cooperative programs.
Communications and Meetings with Area Department Heads (later Operational Vice Presidents): The fonds includes memoranda address by Ernest Stern as (Vice President (1978-1980) and Senior Vice President (1980-1987) of Operations to the Operational/Regional Vice Presidents. Topics of memoranada include lending policies, programming, and lending activities.
The fonds also includes memoranda and minutes from the weekly meetings of the Area Department Heads and its replacement of the Operational Vice Presidents (OVP, renamed after 1972 Reorganization) from 1968 to 1986. The records dated from 1968 to 1978 were maintained by J. Burke Knapp when he served as Chairman for the Area Department Heads and the OVP as the Vice President of Operations and SVPOP. The recordsdated 1979 to 1986 are maintained by Vice President of Operations (VPO) and SVPOP Ernest Stern.
Country lending and strategy records: The fonds also includes records related to the Bank's country lending operations from 1981 to 1991. Records were maintained by Senior Adviser for Lending and Budget Operations Cosmas L. Robless, and OPNMS Senior Programming Officers Larry Smucker and Manuel Benedito. The records include: lending review records focused on lending projects in the Regions for the fiscal years 1982 to 1983 and 1988 to 1994; lending program status records and reports focused on reporting lending project status to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors; records related to lending allocations for IBRD/IDA loans; records related to the Five Year Lending Program, 1984-1989; records related to the IDA Ninth Replenishment for lending operations; and Country Briefs prepared for various countries in the Regions from 1985 and 1987, which outlined an economic profile of a country, lending programming, and reform actions taken.
Budget formulation and review records: The fonds also includes records related to budget formulation and budget review functions performed by the Office of the Management Systems and Budget (SVPMS) and its successor of the Office of the Management Systems and Budget (OPNMS) within the SVPOP/OPNSV Front Office from 1985 to 1992. The records were primarily maintained by the Senior Budget Officers of SVPMS/OPNMS, and the Senior Adviser for Lending and Budget Operations, Cosmas LinusRobless. The records focus primarily on budget formulation and review for Bank units belonging to the Operations Complex. The budget formulation records include: budget correspondence and memoranda; Operations Complex budget distribution and salary reports; Operations Complex budget proposals; Operations Complex capital budget; budget officers meeting minutes; budget submissions sent to the SVPOP/OPNSV related to the Operations Complex; staffing and consulting budgets; budget calendars and booklets prepared by the SVPMS/OPNMS; budget framework papers; business plans, work programs, budget plans, and budget contracts drafted for the Regional Vice Presidencies for fiscal years 1986 to 1995; and business plans, budget plans, work programs, and staffing records related to the vice presidencies and departments of Operations Complex for the fiscal years 1987 to 1991.
Budget plans and staffing records are also included for OVPMS/SVPMS, and for the SVPOP/OPNSV Front Office. Work program and budget reports are also included for the Management Information System (MIS) of the Operations Information Systems (SVPMI/OPNMI) Unit, and its successor Operations Information Services Division (OPNIS) of the SVPOP/OPNSV Front Office from 1985 to 1989.
Budget review records include: monthly status budget reports for the Operations Complex; reimbursement reports; mid-term perspective reports; quarterly, mid-year, third quarter, and retrospective review records for the Operations Complex for the fiscal years 1988 to 1992; and Operations Complex final expense reports.
Operations information management: The fonds also includes records related to the Operations Information Committee (OIC) from 1987 to 1990. The Operations Information Committee (OIC) was established in November 1987 to develop "Complex-wide strategies, plans, policies and investments in information and information technology which would...coordinate the management of information and information technology activities within or affecting the Operations Complex." Therecords include agenda and minutes of OIC meetings and documents and memoranda forwarded to Committee members. Also contained in the records are some minutes of meetings of the Information and Technology Advisory Committee (ITAC) and records related to the FY 90 work program of the Operation Information Services Division (OPNIS). The records are maintained by OIC Chairman Heinz Vergin, who served as the Operations Staff (OPN) Director at the time.
Transportation, telecommunication, water, and urban development records: The fonds also includes operations policy, project support records, and liaison records related to the sector departments of the: Transportation, Water, and Telecommunications Department (TWT); the Urban Projects Department (URB); the Water and Urban Development Department (WUD); and the Transportation Department (TRP) from 1975 to 1986.
The sub-fonds includes operations policy and project support records from the following departments: the Transportation, Water, and Telecommunications Department (TWT) from 1978 to 1982; the Urban Projects Department (URB) from 1978 to 1982; the Water and Urban Development Department (WUD) from 1983 to 1986; and the Transportation Department (TRP) from 1983 to 1986. The sub-fonds also includes records related to liaison with external organizations, which were maintained by TWT from 1978 to 1983.
The series includes records from: the Transportation, Water, and Telecommunications Department (TWT) from 1978 to 1982; the Urban Projects Department (URB) from 1978 to 1982; the Water and Urban Development Department (WUD) from 1983 to 1987; and the Transportation Department (TRP) from 1983 to 1987. These departments were primarily mixed sector departments, therefore, the records cover a broad range of topics, including but not limited to: highway maintenance and development; port development; railways;maritime transportation; water and sanitation systems maintenance and development; tourism services and infrastructure development; urban development; and telecommunication infrastructure and public utilities development. The records include: internal and external correspondence, including letters and memoranda; initiating memoranda; project files; project completion and audit reports; sector support and research files; sector policy papers; back to office reports (BTOs); terms of reference (TORs); and departmental publications. Records related to the Bank's Urban Project Program, which was originally launched in 1975 and supported by URB and later WUD are also included. The Urban Poverty Program records primarily include correspondence and reports related to various sector projects done in support of the program.
The series consist of records related to liaison with organizations external to the Bank. This includes correspondence maintained by Transportation, Water, and Telecommunications Department (TWT) related to the joint United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) - World Bank Water and Sanitation Program from 1978, and correspondence maintained by TWT and WUD related to the joint World Health Organization (WHO) / World Bank Cooperative Program, which also focused on water and sanitation, from 1977 to 1987.
This fonds hold copies of records from other repositories that relate to the history of the World Bank. One group of records copied from the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library deals with the Bretton Woods conference. A second group, copied from the Harry S Truman Presidential Library, consists of selected documents on the Bretton Woods conference and the early years of the Bank. A third body is copies of records from the United States Government's Office of Agriculture, Technical Advisory Bureau, Agency for International Development, dating from 1970-1976. The records relate to agricultural research and to the founding of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research. The final body is a copy of the J. Burke Knapp papers at the Hoover Institution, which were copied for a history of the Bank prepared by the Brookings Institution. When the copies were not longer needed by the history project they were given to the Archives. Finally, the Bank obtained copies of a few oral history interviews from the Truman Library and the Columbia University Oral History Research Office.
Records of the VP Front Office: The fonds includes Front Office records for the following vice presidents: Teruyuki Ohuchi, Vice President of Cofinancing (VPCOF) from 1982 to 1986; Kunihiko Inakage, VPCOF/COFVP from 1986 to 1989; Koji Kashiwaya, Vice President of Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services (CFSVP) from 1989 to 1994; and Hiroo Fukui, CFSVP and Vice President of Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing (RMCVP) from 1994 to 1999. The records include incoming and outgoing chronological correspondence files for each vice president. The records also consist of subject files, including correspondence, internal memoranda, and reports related to the functions, activities, and administration of the VPCOF, CFSVP, and the RMCVP. The records also include external liaison records consisting of: travel arrangement records; briefing books; back-to-office reports; Terms of Reference; and meeting minute and agenda records for liaison with donors or other external organizations.
Budget and planning: The fonds includes budget, work program, and business plan records for the Vice President of Cofinancing (VPCOF), the Vice President of Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services (CFSVP), and the Vice President of Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing (RMCVP) from 1987 to 1999. These records contain: correspondence; monthly budget reports; mid-year review reports; task budget reports; equipment budget reports; budget guidelines; prospective budget summaries; accrual and charges budget reports; reports regarding staffing and recruitment; work programs by unit; VP strategic compact summaries; and VP business plans.
Records of Cofinancing directors, advisers, and staff: The fonds consists of records of cofinancing directors, managers, advisers, and senior level staff who served in the front office or in higher level roles in the Senior Vice President of Operations (SVPOP), the Vice President of Cofinancing (VPCOF/COFVP), the Vice President of Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services (CFSVP), and the Vice President of Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing (RMCVP) from 1981 to 1996. The records include incoming and outgoing correspondence, memoranda, and reports that cover an extensive range of cofinancing related topics, programs, functions, and activities. Records are included for the following directors, managers, and advisers: Frank Vibert, Senior Adviser of Cofinancing for SVPOP and VPCOF from 1981 to 1987; Waman S. Tambe, Cofinancing Adviser Export Credit Agencies of VPCOF/COFVP and CFSVP from 1984 to 1991; John Shilling, Economic Adviser of VPCOF and Manager of the Financial Advisory Services Group (CFSFA) from 1985 to 1991; Sanjivi Rajasingham, Adviser of North American Resources for the Private Cofinancing Group (CFSPC) from 1988 to 1990; John Taylor, Manager of the Cofinancing Group (CFSCO) from 1989 to 1991; Ibrahim Elwa, Manager of the Private Sector Development Group (CFSPS) from 1990 to 1991; Kenichi Ohashi, Adviser to CFSVP from 1989 to 1991; John Niehuss, Director of CFSVP from 1990 to 1991; Inder Sud, Director of CFSVP from 1992 to 1995; Rom Chopra, Director CFSVP and later Cofinancing and Project Finance Department (CAP) from 1995 to 1996; Anthony Toft, Financial Adviser of CFSFA from 1990 to 1991; Salem Gafsi, Manager of the Official Cofinancing and Trust Funds Group (CFSOC) from 1990 to 1992; Kyung Soon Sung, Adviser to CFSVP from 1991 to 1995; and Ulrich Kiermayr, Cofinancing Adviser for Official Aid Agencies of VPCOF/COFVP and CFSVP from 1982 to 1992. Similar records are also included for other senior level cofinancing advisers and financial officers, including: Jamil Saghir, 1990 to 1994; Gian Spota, 1990-1992; Ulrich Zachau, 1989 to 1993; John Bowlin, 1986 to 1992; M. Fedder, 1990 to 1991; Hortensia Hill, 1985 to 1990; Christina Kappaz, 1992 to 1994; and Fredrick Schwartz, 1990 to 1992.
Operational cofinancing support: The fonds includes records related to the CFSVP's various subordinate units responsible for operational support of cofinancing related to projects in the Bank's regional departmentsfrom 1989 to 1995. This includes operational support in the areas of: official and private sector cofinancing; technical support and advisory services to regions in country debt management and restructuring; privatization; and private sector development. The records are related to the development of projects initiated by the CFSVP and Bank regional departments. The records focus on the following phases of project development: identification, pre-appraisal, appraisal, project preparation, and negotiation.The records include: project-related documents; correspondence; appraisal reports; back-to-office reports of CFSVP units and regional departments; copies of loan or credit agreements; internal memoranda; correspondence with member governments, consultants, and other external sources; and briefing notes.
Cofinancing conferences, seminars, and training workshops: This fonds includes records related to cofinancing related conferences, seminars, and training workshops organized or attended by staff from theVice President of Cofinancing (VPCOF) and its successor the Vice President of Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services (CFSVP) from 1987 to 1996. The records include: staff papers, speeches, and publications; teaching materials used at seminars and conferences; information concerning externally sponsored events; research projects and studies undertaken by cofinancing staff, including drafts and final versions along with staff comments; cofinancing publications; informational brochures; and leaflets.
Cofinancing arrangement and administration: The fonds includes records related to the various types of cofinancing arrangements, programs, and projects of the Vice President of Cofinancing (VPCOF), the Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services Vice Presidency (CFSVP), and the Resource Mobilization and Cofinancing Vice Presidency (RMCVP).
This includes records related to the establishment and maintenance of cofinancing arrangements between the Bank and official cofinanciers (e.g. bilateral government agencies, multilateral development agencies, and multilateral development banks). The records were maintained by the following responsible units: the VPCOF from 1984 to 1989; the Official Cofinancing Group (CFSOC) of CFSVP from 1989 to 1992; the Official Cofinancing and Trust Fund Management Group (CFSOC) of CFSVP from 1992 to 1996; the Official Cofinancing and Trust Funds Group (CAPOC) of the RMCVP from 1996 to 1998; and the Trust Fund and Cofinancing Department (TFC) of RMCVP from 1998 to 1999. The records include files arranged by region, country, or official cofinancing agency related to projects cofinanced by the Bank and an official cofinancier. Each file may contain: correspondence between official cofinanciers and Bank staff; internal memoranda; briefing notes for meetings with official cofinanciers; background records related to cofinanced projects; Cofinancing Framework Agreements or Loan Agreements for cofinanced projects; records related to consultation meetings with official cofinanciers; back-to-office reports; Terms of Reference; lists of potential official cofinancing projects; and records related to meetings with a country's Executive Director or Finance Minister related to proposed cofinanced projects. The official cofinancing records also include official cofinancing seminar records, training materials, and publications related to official cofinancing.
The records also consist of materials related to the establishment and maintenance of export credit agency (ECAs) cofinancing arrangements of the VPCOF and successor units of the Financial Advisory Services Group (CFSFA) and the Project Financing Group (CFSPF) of CFSVP from 1984 to 1993. The records consist of correspondence, meeting minutes and agenda, and reports related to liaison and relationships with export credit agencies in various member countries. More specifically, the records include: correspondence and reports of the major export credit agencies of various member countries; correspondence and reports of umbrella organizations such as the Berne Union, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and the European Commission (EC); correspondence and reports detailing IBRD policies in regard to ECAs; funding requests, creditor reports, project reports, and reports on debt; offers by ECAs to provide financing for projects; information on various financial instruments, most notably the Export Credit Enhanced Leverage (EXCEL) program. The records also include agenda, minutes, and reports from the bi-annual meetingof the ECAs.
The records also include project finance transaction records of the VPCOF as well as successor units CFSFA and CFSPF located in CFSVP from 1984 to 1995. The records are related to private cofinancing arrangements (e.g. commercial banks), and management of privately cofinanced projects, primarily infrastructure and private sector development projects. The records include: internal memoranda; internal and external reports related to a project; project documents; consultant reports and documents; Procurement Technical Notes (PTN); copies of project cofinancing agreements and other legal documents; operations policy statements related to cofinancing procurement; procurement guidelines; back-to-office reports; Terms of Reference; records related to meetings with private cofinanciers and member countries; correspondence between Bank staff and private cofinanciers; and consultation meeting records with private cofinanciers and member countries.
Lastly, records relate to CFSFA's and CFSPF's involvement in negotiating and administering debt reduction programs for member countries from 1988 to 1996. The records consists of: correspondence between the member country government asking for assistance, and the formal response from IBRD; an initiating memoranda from the Region to the Regional VP, with background information; a presentation to the Board of Executive Directors requesting a technical assistance grant; procurement records for legal and financial advisors; grant agreement from the Board; mission reports; back-to-office reports; report from the government, based on the technical assistance mission, on restructuring debt; CFSFA and CFSPF meetings and correspondence with donors to negotiate funding; report to the Executive Directors Board to obtain IBRD funding; member country offering to its creditors and the creditors' responses; all required legal records between the government, creditors and IBRD; and a final audit report of the debt restructuring.
Cofinancing policy development and research: The fonds includes records of the Financial Advisory Services Group (CFSFA) and its successor the Project Financing Group (CFSPF) of the CFSVP related to their involvement in the development and research of Bank Group policies and procedures on various cofinancing topics. The records include: internal correspondence and memoranda; draft operational policies and bank procedures; background research materials; back-to-office reports; Terms of Reference; working papers; studies; and papers and memoranda prepared for the Board of Executive Directors. The records cover a wide range of topics, including: capital markets; Expanded Cofinancing Operations (ECO); Guarantee Policies and Procedures; the Export Credit Enhanced Leverage (EXCEL) Program; the IDA Debt Reduction Facility; the Portfolio Management Task Force (Wapenhans Committee); Private Sector Development; and Trust Funds Management Working Group.
Records of the Office of the Director of the Resource Mobilization Department (FRMDR)
The fonds includes the records of the Office of the Director for the Resource Mobilization Department (FRMDR) from 1987 to 2006. This includes records maintained by the following FRM Directors: Bavil Kavalasky 1987 to 1992; Paula Donovan 1993 to 1998; Geoffrey Lamb 1999 to 2002; and Philippe Le Houerou from 2003 to 2006. The records of the FRMDR include incoming and outgoing chronological correspondence for each director. The records also contain subject files consisting of correspondence, internal memoranda, papers, and reports related to the FRM functions and activities, Bank institutional policies and activities, and other departmental matters. Subject files cover a wide variety of topics, including some the following: multilateral development banks (MDBs); export credit agencies (ECAs); external grants; technical assistance; the Gulf Crisis; the Brandt Commission; the Future Role of the Bank Task Force; proposals on the World Bank's Bank; the Bank's 50th Anniversary; the Fifth Dimension Program; IBRD capital adequacy; General Capital Increase (GCI); Special Capital Increase (SCI); IBRD accounting; commitment fees; disbursements; communications with Executive Directors and the Office of the President (EXC); papers prepared for the Board of Executive Directors; factors affecting IDA; the Global Environment Facility (GEF); Maintenance of Value (MOV); the Paris Club; IDA replenishments; IDA Reflows; the Wapenhans Report; African debt; Annual Meetings; IDA foreign exchange; and exposure management.
IDA replenishment administration: The fonds includes records created in the administration and support of IDA Replenishment negotiations. The IDA replenishment records were maintained by the following units: the Financial Analysis Division (PABFA) of the Programming and Budgeting Department (PAB); the Financial Studies Division (FPAFS) of the Financial Policy and Analysis Department (FPA); the Replenishment Operations Unit (FRMRO) of the Resource Mobilization Department (FRM); and the IDA Resource Mobilization Department (CFPIR). The records cover IDA2 to IDA15 Replenishment negotiations from 1966 to 2009.
The records include materials prepared to help facilitate IDA replenishment negotiations, including: memoranda prepared for the Executive Directors, IDA Deputies, the Bank President, and senior staff related to IDA replenishment negotiations; policy and discussion papers prepared for meetings with the Bank's Board of Executive Directors, the Board of Governors, and IDA Deputies, which cover numerous topics such as burden sharing, sectoral programs, country allocations, additions to IDA, IDA reflows, IDA Arrears, etc; draft reports and resolutions for IDA replenishment; implementation arrangement reports related to procedures for IDA replenishment; and briefing books prepared for Deputies Meetings for IDA Replenishments. The records also include: background papers on past IDA negotiations; notice of IDA meeting announcements; list of IDA Deputies; memoranda, correspondence, and technical notes that summarize IDA Deputies meeting discussions; chairman reports from the IDA Deputies meetings; minutes and agenda of IDA Deputies meetings; transcripts and audio-cassette recordings of IDA Deputies meetings; and records related to informal meetings with IDA Deputies.
The IDA replenishment records also includes voting rights, capital subscription, donor contributions, encashment, commitment, legal, accounting, and IDA reflow records produced as a result of IDA replenishment negotiations, and subsequent implementation of IDA replenishment resources. Specifically, the records include: IDA voting rights and power records, which include reports, memoranda, and Board papers on the review and adjustment of IDA members voting rights and power after each replenishment, changes to voting rights and power, legal background, current voting rights system, proposals, discussion notes, and voting rights and power of smaller countries; monthly commitment authority reports, which include introductory memoranda and tables showing the status of IDA contributions and resources available for commitment; IDA donor subscription correspondence; IDA subscription and accounting records, including letters from the Bank requesting note deposits for installment payments, vouchers, note substitution requests, copies of promissory notes, letters and telexes acknowledging receipt of non-negotiable promissory notes, cash receipts regarding note encashment, notification of transfer of funds, and accounting ledgers; IDA call letters, notifications, and encashment records, which include correspondence, call letters requesting release of funds for IDA note encashment, projections and schedule tables of encashment contributions, and letters to IDA countries notifying them of overdue payments and quarterly calls; IDA reflows reports; IDA disbursement projections reports; mid-year reports on IDA replenishments; and subscription history of IDA members.
The records also includes materials related to the establishment and replenishment negotiations of the global programs of the Special Facility for Africa (SFA) and the Global Environment Facility (GEF). The SFA records include materials maintained by FPAFS of FPA, and FRMRO of FRM from 1985 to 1989. SFA records include: drafts and copies of the resolution of the Executive Directors of the IDA on the Establishment of the SFA from 1985; technical notes prepared for senior staff related to SFA issues; donor meeting minutes, agenda, opening remarks, and summaries of donor meetings; Chairman reports for SFA donor meetings; records related to donor contributions to SFA; SFA press communiques; records related to guidelines and procedures for SFA; IDA8 replenishment negotiations records related to SFA; background papers on SFA grant recipient countries; copies of cofinancing agreements with donor countries for SFA; proposals to extend SFA; SFA quarterly financial statements; SFA progress reports; SFA publications; calls and notifications regarding encashment of funds for SFA; requests for payments; SFA disbursement reports; SFA projection tables; Board papers submitted to the Board of Executive Directors requesting termination of SFA; correspondence and memoranda related to termination of the SFA in 1989; and Board of Executive Directors meeting minutes and agenda regarding SFA.
Records related to the establishment and replenishment negotiations of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) maintained by the FRMRO of FRM are also included for the years 1989 to 1999. The GEF records include: copies of Board papers; discussionpapers; reports and memoranda related to funding for GEF; talking points for meetings on the environment; reports on discussions at Board meetings related to the environment; transcripts of GEF meetings; and agenda and meeting minutes. Specific topics of the records cover natural gas, forestry, the Montreal Protocol, technical assistance for the environment, and funding for GEF.
IDA country strategy development and advisement: The fonds consists of records dating from 1987 to 1997 that relate to the Resource Mobilization Department's (FRM) involvement in the development of country strategies. This involved advising the Bank's Operations Committee and senior staff on country strategies. The records contain: policy framework papers; Board papers, including IDA Board papers on technical assistance; country strategy papers; briefings for meetings of the President's Council; reports on sector adjustment operations; progress reports on sector adjustment credits; IMF reports; and credit and project progressreports.
Third Window feasibility, projections, and analysis
In 1975, the Bank launched the Intermediate Financing Facility ("Third Window"), an interest subsidy fund created to mobilize and leverage limited concessional funds from donors. This fund was created due to constrained availability of lending and donor resources prompted by the 1970s oil crisis. The fonds includes records related to the original "Third Window", and feasibility studies, projections, and analysis for a second "Third Window" fund. The records were maintained by the Replenishment Policy Division (FRMRP) of the Resource Mobilization Department (FRM) from 1987 to 1996 (background records are also included from the 1960s to the 1980s). The records are related to the projections and analysis of the feasibility of a third window lending. The records include: background records related to the first Intermediate Financing Facility ("Third Window") launched in the 1970s; draft reports with comments; final reports; copies of Executive Director Board papers; computer printouts; projection tables; internal memoranda; and other internal communications regarding projections and analysis of the feasibility of a third window lending to provide funds on terms and conditions between the near market terms for IBRD funds and the concessional terms for IDA funds.
Trust fund program management and support
The fonds includes records related to the life cycle (establishment, implementation, evaluation, and financial management) of trust fund programs. The trust funds were managed by the followings units: the Vice President of Cofinancing (VPCOF) from 1984 to 1989; the Official Cofinancing Group (CFSOC) of CFSVP from 1989 to 1992; the Official Cofinancing and Trust Fund Management Group (CFSOC) of CFSVP from 1992 to 1996; the Official Cofinancing and Trust Funds Group (CAPOC) from 1996 to 1998 of the RMCVP; the Trust Fund and Cofinancing Department (TFC) of RMCVP from 1998 to 2001; the Trust Funds Operations Department (TFO), the Trust Fund Strategy and Donor Relations Department (TFS), and the Global Partnership Programs (GPP) of RMCVP and the CFPVP from 2001 to 2008; and the Global Partnerships and Trust Fund Operations (CFPTO) of the CFPVP from 2008 to 2010.
The records include management and support records maintained by the program managers and administrators of various trust fund programs. Included are trust fund program management records of grants for the Consultant Trust Fund (CTF) Program, the Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Fund, Global Partnership Programs (e.g. Development GrantFacility [DGF]), and other special trust fund programs. The majority of the trust fund records focus on the technical assistance trust fund programs of PHRD and CTF, and the global program and partnership trust fund of DGF.
The records of the Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund (formerly the Japanese Grant Facility) include correspondence, reports, legal, and financial management records related to PHRD grants. The PHRD records were maintained by VPCOF, CFSOC, CAPOC, TFC, and TFO from 1984 to 2006. The records generally include specific PHRD project implementation files consisting of the following types of records: correspondence between the Bank and the Government of Japan; PHRD technical assistance funding proposals; PHRD implementation reports; contract for consultant services; Terms of Reference; Japanese grant agreements with grant recipient country; correspondence with the Regional departments regarding implementation and disbursement; policies and guidelines related to PHRD grants; records related to monitoring of compliance with the grant terms; and records of quarterly PHRD Fund Tranche budgets.
The records also consist of material related to the management and support of trust fund grants of the Consultant Trust Fund (CTF) Program maintained by VPCOF, CFSOC, CAPOC, TFC, and TFO from 1974 to 2006 (predominantly 1985 to 2006). The records include correspondence, reports, legal, and financial records between the World Bank, participating donor countries, and the grant recipient. The CTF records generally include country files with the following types of records: Initiating Briefs for Trust Funds (IBTF); Cofinancing Framework Agreements; CTF Agreements; Memoranda of Understanding between the Bank and donor country; the CTF funding request from Regional Division Chiefs; Terms of Reference; back to office reports; terms and conditions of the grant; briefing notes prepared for donor countries; letters of appointment; reports to the donors describing the disbursement of funds; list of CTF allocations; internal reports on each trust fund; daily reports on each trust fund; semi-annual and annual donor consultation reports; mid-year reports; evaluation reports; agenda and meeting minutes for semi-annual and annual donor consultation meetings; financial reconciliation reports; CTF pledges and cash receipts; CTF grant entries for the Grant Reporting and Monitoring System (GRMS); requests for consultants; lists of consultants; guidelinesand policies for CTF grants; and CTF summary reports for earmarked uses of trust funds.
The records also include material related to the Development Grant Facility (DGF) maintained by TFC and its successor TFO from 1985 to 2006 (predominantly 1997 to 2006; some reference records predate establishment of DGF in 1997). The DGF records include: records related to the strategy and procedures of the DGF; DGF publications; DGF Council meeting records, which include minutes, agenda, and discussion notes; records prepared for or part of meeting with the Bank's Board of Executive Directors, including Board papers, discussion notes, minutes, agenda, technical briefings, and Memoranda to Executive Directors for Annual Review of DGF; records related to meetings with the Bank's Network vice presidencies focused on proposed grants for sector partnerships and projects; records related to DGF eligibility criteria; legal agreements for DGF grant programs and projects; DGF procurement guidelines; records related to meetings of the Special Grant Committee for the Special Grants Facility Program; DGF unallocated funds, savings, carryovers, overruns, and underrun budget reports; DGF statistical tables; DGF budget and expense reports; records related to donor coordination; and records related to DGF major issues. The records also include review and evaluation records of the DGF, including: records related to internal evaluations from the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and the Internal Audit Department (IAD); annual review reports of DGF; review, evaluation, and monitoring reports of grant programs and projects of DGF; mid-term and retrospective reviews of DGF; and individual progress, completion and audit reports on individual grants. The records also include copies of parent level entries for proposed Bank-Foundation Partnership grants of the DGF entered as part of the Partnership Approval Tracking System (PATS) database. The entries consist of basic data on each proposed grant, and are arranged by sector, region, or alphabetically by donor foundation.
The records also include IBTF clearance and revision records maintained by the CAPOC, TFC, and TFO for regional, Global Partnership Programs (GPPs), multi-donor, and other ad hoc trust fund programs from 1997 to 2005. The records include: drafts and final copies of IBTF documents; copies of trust fund agreements; and IBTF clearance memoranda with comments and revision input from CAPOC, TFC, TFO Clearance Officers, and staff in the Bank's legal, accounting, and Regional departments.
The records also consist of trust fund review, monitoring, and reporting records maintained by the Trust Fund Management Oversight Unit (TFMOU) and the Trust Fund Monitoring and Reporting Unit (TFMRU) of CAPOC, TFC, and TFO from 1996 to 2004. TFMOU records primarily include: portfolio status and IBTF review case files for regional trust fund projects; IBTF monthly summary reports; IBTF clearance reports; strategy papers; presentations prepared for donor conferences on trust fund monitoring and reporting; briefing books, minutes, and agenda records for donor meetings; and case and review reports for trust fund grant projects and programs. The TFMRU records include those related to the procedures and guidelines for trust fund review documents of the Implementation Completion Memorandum (ICM) and Implementation Completion Reports (ICR) and records of received ICMs and ICRs for reviewed trust fund grant projects.

