The information for the administrative history was provided by the Women's Monument Project Committee. The Women's Monument Project was founded in 1990 by Christine McDowell, a Capilano College student, in response to the massacre of fourteen women at Montreal's l'Ecole Polytechnique on December 6, 1989. Genevieve Bergeron, Nathalie Croteau, Anne-Marie Edward, Barbara Klucznik, Maryse Leclair, Sonia Pelletier, Annie St-Arneault, Helene Colgan, Barbara Daigneault, Maud Haviernick, Maryse Laganiere, Anne-Marie Lemay, Michele Richard and Annie Turcotte all died at the hands of a man who said he killed them because they were women. A few months after the unveiling of the monument, Marker of Change, by artist Beth Alber in Thornton Park in Vancouver on December 6, 1997, the Project became inactive. The Project's objectives were to focus national attention on the widespread problem of male violence against women; to build a permanent public art memorial to the fourteen women and to all women who have been victims of violence; to create a lasting testament to the value of women, the sanctity of human life and the refusal to be defeated by violence; and, to offer employment opportunities to women in all aspects of the Project from fundraising to design to construction. Through its fundraising and consciousness-raising efforts, the Project made contact with thousands of individual donors from across Canada and around the world, with community groups, unions and associations, schools, corporations, government, private foundations and the media. A Committee coordinated the Project. The floor of the Orientation Stand at the Monument site states, "A feminist project realized by a small group of women in collaboration with Capilano College, with love for all people." During the Project's eight-year duration, from 3 to 10 women actively served on the Committee at any given time. Committee members included Lisa Brisebois, Kim Bruce, Janine Carscadden, Dawn Dalley, Christine McDowell, Vanessa Pasqualetto, Krista Marshall, Lianne Payne, Lindsay Setzer, and Elinor Warkentin. Other members were Susan Anderson, Gail Attara, Rita Beiks, Jennifer Bradley, Lorna Brown, Margot Butler, Karen Egger, Alexandra Ewashen, Maura Gatensby, Cate Jones, Deborah MacFarlane, Kelly Phillips, Wonda Seaboyer, Elena Shragge and Maria Walther. Many volunteers who did not sit on the Committee also participated in the Project. Carol McCandless and Olga Kempo represented Capilano College. Usually meeting every two weeks, the Committee was a forum for collective decision-making. In 1992 a paid, part-time staff position was created, and in late 1993 a Coordinator for the national design competition was hired for ten months. There was no core funding; these positions were supported through government grants or fundraising. Capilano College sponsored the Project by providing its endorsement, infrastructure (such as office space and telephones), charitable tax status, and administrative support.
The Department of Psychology was one of the original departments of the Faculty of Arts when the University opened in 1965. It offered courses in general experimental and applied psychology to undergraduate students based upon recommendations of the Canadian and American Psychological Associations. The Department also offered graduate work leading to the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees. The department functioned through a number of committees which varied over the years. In 1978, for example they included the Undergraduate Studies Committee, Graduate Studies Committee, Space and Equipment Committee, Appointments Committee, Graduate Admissions Committee, Colloquium Committee, Applied/Clinical Committee, Departmental Tenure Committee, and the University Human Experimental Committee. The department expanded steadily from its inception. By 1979 there were 25 faculty members offering 60 undergraduate courses and 48 graduate courses. Enrollment comprised 550 undergraduate students and 57 graduate students.
The Department of Spanish and Latin American Studies was created in 1988 as a merger between the Spanish Language Program of the Department of Literature, Languages and Linguistics and the Latin American Studies Program of the Faculty of Arts. The department was abolished in 1996. In February 1971 a Latin American Studies Program was proposed to Senate. This program was first under the jurisdiction of the Division of General Studies in 1972, and then placed in the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies upon the inception of that faculty at the end of 1972. It was the first area studies minor at SFU and served as a model for the creation of similar programs in Canadian and Africa-Middle East Studies, also administered the Dean of FIDS. By 1984, Latin American Studies had evolved from granting an area studies minor to granting joint major degrees in conjunction with six other arts disciplines (Archaeology, Geography, History, Political Science, Spanish, and Sociology and Anthropology). The field school, first held in Guatemala in 1976, generated additional interest in the program. The LAS Student Union organized film series and other events. With the dissolution of FIDS in 1985. the program became part of the Faculty of Arts until the creation of the Department of Spanish and Latin American Studies in 1988. Spanish language instruction at SFU took place first in the Department of Modern Languages, established in 1965, and later renamed the Department of Languages, Literature, and Linguistics in 1978 to reflect its broader scholarly focus. In 1988, the department was disbanded and instruction in Spanish language and literature was transferred to the Department of Spanish and Latin American Studies. Upon the dissolution of the Department of Spanish and Latin American Studies, Spanish language instruction was transferred to the Language Training Institute in the Faculty of Arts. The Latin American Studies program was placed in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology in the Faculty of Arts. For further information on the dissolution of the department, see the appendix (Simon Fraser News, June 20, 1996).
Kate Braid is a Vancouver poet, carpenter, trade unionist and educator. Born in Calgary, Alberta and raised in Montreal, Que, Braid received a Bachelor of Arts degree in English and history from Mount Allison University in 1967. In 1979 she earned her Master of Arts degree in the Communications Department at Simon Fraser University with a thesis entitled Invisible Women: Women in Non-Traditional Occupations in B.C. Meanwhile, she had begun working in the construction industry herself, and in 1983 received her Interprovincial Trades Qualification and Apprenticeship Certificate (Red Seal) for carpentry construction from the Pacific Vocational Institute (later renamed the British Columbia Institute of Technology or BCIT). She was the first woman member of the Vancouver local of the International Carpenters' Union (Local 452, later 1995). In 1997 she earned her Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing at the University of British Columbia. She continued to work in trades until 1989, forming her own company, Sisters Construction (1983-1987). Kate Braid was a founding member of the Vancouver Women in Trades Association, an advocacy and support organization that existed from 1979 to 1987. Braid has written extensively on women and trades, including two booklets profiling Canadian tradeswomen for the Women's Bureau of Labour Canada. In addition, she prepared radio documentaries for the CBC's Ideas radio program. She has taught numerous courses and workshops since 1980, and in 1989 became the first full-time woman instructor in construction carpentry at BCIT. From 1991 to 1995, as Director of Labour Programs at SFU, she served as a liaison between academia and labour. Braid has also taught creative writing at Malaspina College (now Vancouver Island University), SFU and UBC. Her poems and other writings have appeared in many journals and anthologies, and have been broadcast on radio and television. Her first collection of her poetry, Covering Rough Ground, won the Pat Lowther Memorial Prize in 1991. Her next collection, To this Cedar Fountain, was shortlisted for the Dorothy Livesay Poetry Prize in 1995. Her other publications include: Red Bait: Struggles of a Mine Local (1998), Inward to the Bones: Georgia O'Keeffe's Journey with Emily Carr (1998), Emily Carr: Rebel Artist (2000), In Fine Form: The Canadian Book of Form Poetry (2005), A Well-Mannered Storm: the Glenn Gould poems (2008), Turning Left to the Ladies (2009), and her prose memoir "Journeywoman: Swinging a Hammer in a Man's World" (2012). She and her partner live in Vancouver, BC.
The Universities Act , 1963, c. 52, s. 25 provided for a Faculty Council from each of British Columbia's three universities. Membership included the President as Chairman, the Registrar as secretary, the Librarian, the Deans and at least five faculty members. The Faculty Council was granted several powers (Universities Act, s. 61) including making rules and regulations with respect to student discipline, and approving the establishment of a representative student government. SFU's Faculty Council, established in 1965, consisted of the officials listed above and 6 faculty members (2 elected from each of the original faculties of Arts, Science, and Education). One of its earliest actions was to examine the proposed constitution of the Simon Fraser Student Society in order to facilitate the formal recognition of the SFSS. In addition, it studied the issue of a separate graduate student society. The Council established policies in such areas as library fines, traffic violations, and conduct in student residences. It also heard individual disciplinary cases involving students accused of misconduct such as cheating and plagiarism. The last minutes of the Faculty Council are from 1973. The revised Universities Act in 1974 did not provide for the continuation of the Council.
The Universities Act, 1963, c. 52, s. 25 provided for the "Faculties in joint meeting" to determine the number and manner of election of faculty to the Faculty Council. Joint Faculty determined that there should be 6 faculty representatives (2 elected from each of the original faculties of Arts, Science, and Education). In its initial meetings, Joint Faculty discussed such issues as admission requirements, teaching loads and the establishment of a faculty lounge. University President, Patrick McTaggart-Cowan, was elected Chairman of the Joint Faculty; the Registrar acted as secretary. Following the censure of SFU by the Canadian Association of University Teachers, the Joint Faculty expressed a lack of confidence in President McTaggart-Cowan, who resigned his position in May 1968. Also in that year, an interim council of Joint Faculty was established consisting of five members from Joint Faculty. The Interim Council was empowered to examine a set of declarations including the democratic selection of academic administrators, the establishment of an exclusively academic Senate, and the elimination of the Board of Governors "interference in academic affairs." Under the terms of reference of the Interim Council, the Student Society was invited to choose a committee to work with the Council on the implementation of these principles and the principle of student participation in university government. The Council made recommendations to Joint Faculty, which, in turn, made recommendations to Senate. The basic provisions for electing chairs, and the ability to recall chairs and deans originated with the work of the Interim Council.
Margo Dunn, actor, writer, feminist and owner of Ariel Books, has been an active force in the Vancouver women's movement since 1966. She participated in the Abortion Caravan to Ottawa in 1970, acted in guerrilla theatre, and taught Women's Studies at Vancouver City College Langara. Born in Montreal, on March 17, 1944, Ms. Dunn completed a BA in English from Marianopolis College (de l'Universite de Montreal) in 1964. In 1966, she moved to Vancouver and attended Simon Fraser University from 1968 to 1970 working towards an MA in English. Ms. Dunn returned to SFU in 1974 and 1975 to finish work on her MA thesis, "The Development of Narrative in the Writing of Isabella Valency Crawford." From 1977 to 1979 she worked as an editor and taught drama at the University of New Brunswick. She also ran in the 1978 New Brunswick provincial election as a candidate for the NDP. Ms. Dunn has also taught women's studies at VCC-Langara in Vancouver from 1980 to 1990. Ms. Dunn is also a writer and editor; she edited the publication Makara in the 1970s and Room of Ones Own, in the early 1980s. In addition to her professional activities, Margo Dunn is an unofficial record-keeper of the Vancouver women's movement. She collected and stored material that she felt was important to record women's activities in the struggle for freedom and equality. In this role, she was sought out by representatives of various women's organizations and individuals to store and preserve their records. More recently, Ms. Dunn has been a columnist for X'tra West and Angles. She also contributes opinion and editorial pieces for the gay and lesbian television programs, Prism and, later, Outlook. She also writes and performs her own work and has resumed her early profession as an actor.
The Pacific Women's Graphic Arts Cooperative, in co-operation with Press Gang Publishers (a feminist press in Vancouver), produced Makara magazine from 1975 to 1978. The magazine was billed as "The Canadian magazine by women for people," and sought to explore alternatives to traditional journal structures and work toward positive social change. Makara is a general interest magazine that reflects a wide range of interests and philosophies, and contains fiction, articles, interviews and dialogue, features, and children's section. The Co-operative, consisting of ten women, controlled the majority of production, with printing and four-colour layout done by Press Gang. Makara stopped publishing after 13 issues because it was not self-supporting; sales and advertising revenues did not cover printing costs or salaries.
The Women's Cultural Exchange incorporated under the Societies Act in October 1976. Its objectives were to promote an appreciation of women involved in cultural endeavors in the community; to establish a common space for women who wish to share and exchange their skills, arts and resources in a congenial setting; to facilitate self-help through skill-building workshops, meetings and other educational activities; and, to further communication in order to develop a more cohesive women's community. A space was found at 217 East 16th Avenue and opened April 15, 1977. The Exchange hosted film nights, art exhibits, workshops, readings, performances and other like activities. After five months the Exchange shut down due to lack of revenue and an insufficient number of women in the Exchange collective to run the establishment effectively.
The Simon Fraser Teachers' Union held its organizational meeting and first general meeting on July 27, 1967. Its membership consisted of faculty members who felt that the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association (SFUFA) was not representing their interests. The SFTU remained active until 1968, when it integrated into the SFUFA after that body called for the resignation of SFU's president, Patrick Duncan McTaggart-Cowan. The SFTU was formed, in part, as a reaction to perceived inadequacies with the SFUFA due to its close association with university administration. The SFTU was distinct from the SFUFA because it excluded from its membership the President, administrators, heads, librarians and teaching assistants. The SFTU was designed to deal solely with the problems of faculty members, and to advocate on their behalf The Teachers' Union's stated aims were as follows: to promote, establish, and maintain the highest academic standards among the members of the full-time teaching faculty at Simon Fraser University; to concern itself with the welfare of its membership specifically in the areas of academic freedom, tenure, promotions, dismissal and renewal procedures, and in general to adopt the methods of collective bargaining in furthering the vital interests of its membership; to ensure that the university adheres to democratic principles and procedures in the relations that are established between students, teaching assistants, faculty, administration, and all other members of the academic community; to provide ways and means of furthering the interests of faculty not available through other teacher associations (e.g. Faculty Association, CAUT), due to the limited effectiveness imposed upon such associations by their structure, and, by the exclusion of heads of departments and other administrative personnel, to minimize conflicts of interest that militate against the best interests of the faculty. The Simon Fraser Teachers' Union executive, consisting of a president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, corresponding secretary, and four directors managed the business of the union. The STU was the first union of university professors in Canada, although it did not receive certification under the existing labour code.
The Simon Fraser University Staff Association was established in 1966 by staff on campus who felt that conditions and salaries at the university were in need of improvement. An association, rather than a union, was formed as staff felt that freedom of action within the university was preferable at the time. By 1968 the Staff Association was an officially recognized body of the university, and was registered under the Societies Act. The aims of the Staff Association, as given in its 1968 constitution, were to unite staff under a single organization capable of acting on its behalf, to communicate with administration on matters affecting staff, to obtain and improve the best possible conditions of employment, to have representation on university committees, and to encourage the continued education of its members. In 1971, the constitution was changed to read: The primary object of the Association is to serve the common interests of the non-academic employees of Simon Fraser University who are not members of trade unions in all matters concerning wages, salaries, benefits, and conditions of employment in such manner as to promote the fair treatment of all such employees individually and as compared in general to other persons and groups of persons similarly employed at Simon Fraser University and in other parts of the Greater Vancouver area. Membership in the Association was voluntary, although all eligible staff were encouraged to join in order to give it stronger support for voicing the opinions and needs of its members. By 1974, some members of the university staff expressed interest in union representation. A Committee to Investigate Alternatives was formed to explore the possibilities of union representation, although the Staff Association executive did not support this group. Concurrently, a number of unions attempted to organize staff on campus: the Canadian Union of Public Employees, the Office and Technical Employees Union, and the Association of University and College Employees all campaigned to represent staff at SFU. In response the Staff Association decided to seek certification through the Labour Relations Board. On November 19, 1974 an election was held to determine if staff at SFU wanted a union, and if so, which union they wanted to represent them (the Staff Association or the Association of University and College Employees). Staff voted to have AUCE as their representative, and, as a result, the Staff Association began winding up its affairs. By December 1974 it had moved out of its offices, gave their surplus equipment and stationary to AUCE, and turned their records over to the university archives.
The origin of Facilities Management can be traced back to the appointment of the University's first staff member, Arthur Gordon Orr, as Superintendent of Engineering Services on 1 September 1963. By September 1964, the position was renamed Manager of General Services. In 1968, the Department of Physical Plant and Planning was created to manage one of the functions of General Services. In 1988, Physical Plant and Planning was replaced by Facilities Management. General Services was originally responsible for building construction and plant maintenance, as well as for many other services such as traffic, security, fire prevention, purchasing, bookstore operations, central stores, mail, and food services. Some services, such as food, security, and building cleaning, were contracted to outside firms. In these cases, the Department acted in an overall supervisory role. Other functions, such as purchasing, were carried out by departmental employees. The scheduling of space was an important concern of the new university, and the Manager chaired a Space Usage Committee, charged with room allocation. In August 1967, General Services was reorganized into three sections: Physical Plant and Planning, Purchasing, and Ancillary Services. The following year, these sections became departments, the heads of which reported to the Vice-President, Administration. Physical Plant and Planning, headed by a Director, was responsible for the maintenance and operations of physical plant, the planning of all future facilities, and the construction of all facilities. These duties included liaison with the faculty on space problems. Ancillary Services was responsible for such functions as food services, security, and mail. Purchasing was charged with purchasing supplies and equipment. In 1972, Physical Plant and Planning was formally divided into three separate divisions: Planning and Design, Construction, and Maintenance and Operations. The functions of these divisions were outlined in a l973 report, "Organizations, Responsibilities, and Objectives: Physical Plant and Planning." The Planning and Design Division was authorized "to co-ordinate planning and design for the physical development of the university." Construction Division was made responsible "for managing, on behalf of the University, the programme involving the expenditure of capital funds for the construction of new buildings and facilities, as well as designated minor projects." This function included liaison with departmental user groups. Maintenance and Operations, the largest division, was comprised of various sections: Building and Grounds, Mechanical and Plumbing, Electrical Section, Projects (responsible for estimating and scheduling Work Orders), Maintenance and Operations Office, and Janitorial and Safety. In addition to regular maintenance work carried out by all sections, Projects section estimated and scheduled work orders, which were then carried out by tradespeople from the various sections. At the start of the 1974-1975 fiscal year, the three sections were reduced to two due to the amalgamation of the Planning and Design and Construction sections. Ancillary Services supervised a number of functions. From 1974-1983, it was responsible for purchasing, duplicating, telephone, mail, traffic and security, central stores, and food services. From 1974-1979, it was also responsible for athletics and recreation, and from 1976-1979 for safety. In December 1983, Ancillary Services was dissolved as a separate unit, and Physical Plant and Planning assumed responsibility for several of Ancillary Services' functions: traffic and security, central stores, campus mail, telephones, and office equipment. On 1 February 1986, Physical Plant and Planning began to report to the newly created position of Executive Director, Administrative Services, the successor to the Vice-President, Administration. During that year the Department was divided into three different units: Physical Plant, Facilities Planning and Construction, and Support Services. The responsibility for traffic and security was moved to Student Services. In 1988, Facilities Management was created to assume the functions formerly carried out by Physical Plant, and Facilities Planning and Construction.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
Michael Irwin was employed by Simon Fraser University at the SFU Theatre.
Heather Raven was an active member of the Association of University and College Employees, Local #2 until her promotion to the management position of Labour Relations analyst in the Personnel Department at Simon Fraser University. She acted as the Provincial Representative for AUCE #2, (the Simon Fraser University local) from 1974 to 1976, as Secretary to the Contract Committee from 1976 to 1977, and as one of four union representatives who represented AUCE before the Labour Relations Board in the matter of SFU's appeal of a British Columbia Labour Relations Board decision under Section 34 of the BC Labour Code and two union applications under Sections 34 and 96-1 of the Labour Code.
The British Columbia and Yukon Association of Women's Centres (BCYAWC) was founded in 1985 as an umbrella organization of over 30 women's centres. It ceased operations in 1998. Women's centres developed in the 1970s as a project of the women's movement. They served as women-only space to practice an egalitarian model of organization. They were devoted to improving the status of women through education and political action and to helping women through the provision of safe space, support, and services. Over the years, the number of women using women's centres increased as the centres struggled to find ongoing funding. By 1984, women's centres were looking for a more structured way to work towards common goals, including secure funding and improved cooperation and communication among centres. In 1985 they established the BCYAWC and incorporated under the BC Society Act on November 12, 1987. By 1990, the BCYAWC consisted of 31 women's resource centres – 30 in BC, one in the Yukon. The Association was managed by a volunteer coordinating collective that included a secretary, treasurer, 11 regional representatives, and six members-at-large. Meetings were scheduled for four times a year. Around 1993 the group began to lose its cohesiveness because of funding and other issues. In 1995, the province cut the Association's funding. The following year, the Association was struck from the Registry of Societies for failure to file required documentation such as audited financial statements. While the Association made an attempt to file the papers necessary to regain status, the remaining members in 1998 agreed to dissolve the organization and distribute its assets.
In 1991 the British Columbia and Yukon Association of Women's Centres (BCYAWC) initiated a training strategy called Planning for Change. It was preceded by a needs assessment questionnaire sent to member centres to identify the organizational and resource problems to be addressed by such a strategy and uncover solutions to common problems. The results were used to develop training workshops and a resource manual, "From Burnout to Breakthrough." The manual was completed in 1993. It begins with an historical overview of the development of women's centres and includes guidelines for operating a centre including fundraising, marketing, recruitment, and outreach.
Thomas J. (Tom) Mallinson (191--1999) was a professor of Communication Studies at Simon Fraser University. Trained as a clinical psychologist, Mallinson came to the newly-founded SFU in 1965 to head the Centre for Communications and the Arts within the Faculty of Education. The Centre later evolved into the School for Communication.
Elinor Ames was a charter member of the Department of Psychology at Simon Fraser University from 1965 until her retirement in 1997. Elinor Ames was born October 1, 1931. She completed a Bachelor of Science degree at Tufts University in 1953 and a Ph.D. at Cornell University in 1960. Her research and teaching interests included developmental psychology, social psychology, personality and perception.
Maggie Benston (1937-1991) was a Professor of Chemistry, Computing Science, and Women's Studies at SFU. A respected feminist and community activist, she was a founding member of the Vancouver Women's Caucus.
Robert Dunham (1939-1990) was a professor of English at Simon Fraser University. His specialty was the literature of the Romantic Period. A graduate of Stanford University, Dunham joined SFU in 1966. He was a gifted teacher who won the University's excellence in teaching award in 1986 as well as the 3M Fellowship in 1988, a national award which recognized excellence in teaching and educational leadership.
F. Margaret Hayward was the founder and first director of the Reading and Study Centre at SFU. She was born in Vancouver in 1919, received her BA and Social Work Diplomas from UBC in 1941 and 1943 respectively, and later earned an MA in psychology from Case Western Reserve University in 1951. Hayward worked as a social worker, counselor, and specialist in reading improvement In 1963 Hayward wrote to Chancellor Gordon Shrum to suggest that the new university develop a Reading Service to improve the study skills of its students. Shrum and President Patrick McTaggart-Cowan agreed with her proposal and hired Hayward to be the Director of the Reading and Study Centre at SFU at the rank of Assistant Professor. The Centre was administratively placed in the Department of Psychology because Hayward believed that it was important to emphasize the academic nature of the program. Under Hayward's leadership, the Centre operated successfully for several years. When the Centre was moved to University Services in 1971, Hayward resigned her position and left the University.
Michael Lebowitz, B.S. (N.Y.), M.S. (Wis.) is an emeritus Professor of Economics at Simon Fraser University. He joined SFU in 1965 as a charter faculty member in the Department of Economics and Commerce. Lebowitz was active in university affairs throughout his career.
The Department of Geography was established by the Board of Governors in 1965 as one of the original Departments in the Faculty of Arts. The Department was responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the broad fields of Human and Physical Geography. In 1965, the Department consisted of five faculty members and offered six undergraduate courses in the areas of economic, social and physical geography. Subsequent additions to its degree program offerings were a M.A. and Ph.D. in 1966, a B.Sc. in Physical Geography in 1978 and M.Sc. in 1981. The latter two degrees were both through the Faculty of Science. In 1979, the Department had 21 faculty. Members of the Department have also been involved in interdisciplinary programs with other departments and faculties, including the Master of Natural Resource Management Program in Applied Science; the Canadian Studies Program in the Division of Interdisciplinary Studies; the Institute for Quaternary Research; and the Latin American Studies Program in the Faculty of Arts. The Department was administered by a Chair and a number of standing committees. The Chair was the chief administrative officer, whose responsibilities included the management of the operational budget; faculty tenure, promotion and salary recommendations; teaching assignments; and representation of the Department to external bodies. The number and composition of departmental committees varied little over time. In a draft Constitution of 1969, there were nine standing committees: Undergraduate Studies, Graduate Studies, Library, Accommodation and Equipment, Budget, Appointments and Guest Lecturers, Salaries and Promotions, Cartographic Services, and Tenure. By 1990, the Resources Committee had replaced the former Accommodation and Equipment and Cartographic Services Committees; and the Departmental Tenure Committee had replaced the Salaries and Promotions Committee. Ad hoc committees, such as the Chairman's Search Committee, were also formed.
Thomas Brose came to SFU as a charter faculty member in the Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology Department in l965. He remained in the Department until 1970 when he left the University. During that period, Brose served on a committee to discuss the role and organization of Joint Faculty at SFU. He also served as the temporary acting chairman of the Committee on Food.
James W. Wilson was a Professor of Geography at SFU, who had served as the first executive director of the Lower Mainland Regional Planning Board and a relocation planner for the Columbia River Power Project in B.C.
Press Gang Printers was a feminist printing collective operating in Vancouver from 1970 to 1993. It incorporated under British Columbia's Companies Act as Press Gang Publishers Ltd. in April 1970. The organization included both women and men until 1974, when it was established as a women-only feminist collective. Press Gang published its first book under its own imprint in 1976, a collection of essays entitled "I'm Not Mad, I'm Angry: Women Look at Psychiatry." Over the years, printing and publishing activities increasingly diverged, and in 1982 Press Gang established a separate collective to manage the publishing operations. In 1989 the separation was completed when the two collectives formally became distinct legal and corporate entities, Press Gang Printers Ltd. and Press Gang Publishers Feminist Cooperative. The two organizations, however, remained closely associated and continued to operate out of the same premises -- 603 Powell Street, where the shop was established in 1978, after four years in its previous location at 821 East Hastings Street. Politics were central to Press Gang Printers' mandate. It was an active participant in North American feminist networks, including the British Columbia Federation of Women (BCFW). It provided training and opportunities for women in a trade traditionally dominated by men, and it participated in the labour movement, particularly after 1989 when the collective unionized, joining the Communications Workers of America, Local 226. Press Gang maintained a policy of rejecting material deemed sexist or racist. Its clients were primarily local feminist, radical, activist and community groups, and, especially in the early years, it often printed material that mainstream shops would not accept. Throughout its existence Press Gang Printers remained a collective, though its organizational structure evolved as it shifted from volunteer to paid labour, with increasing specialization and professionalism, and unionization. During the late 1980s changes in printing technology, free trade, the restructuring of the print industry, and growing competition from larger print shops created an increasingly difficult business environment. The collective survived a fiscal crisis in 1992, but in 1993, under a debt load greater than the total value of the company, Press Gang Printers was forced to cease operations. Articles and other materials relating to Press Gang Printers' history are included in the appendix to this finding aid (hard copy version only, available in the Archives Reading Room).
The British Columbia Federation of Women (BCFW) was founded in 1974 as an umbrella group of women's organizations. Its objective was to bring about women's liberation through fundamental social change, providing a provincial network of support, information- and resource-sharing, and coordinated action. Groups joined as affiliate members and were organized into regional units; federation-wide matters were overseen by the Coordinating Collective, several standing committees (Finance, Communications and Convention), and various ad hoc committees established to address specific issues and projects. At the Annual General Convention delegates from each of the regions elected committee members and voted on policy resolutions. The BCFW disbanded in 1989.
The Department of Languages, Literatures and Linguistics was established by the Board of Governors in 1965 under the name of the Department of Modern Languages. The Department was responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the discipline of languages and linguistics. Initially, the Department offered a B.A. program in four language divisions— French, German, Russian, and Spanish— or in linguistics. In 1966, a M.A. in Linguistics was introduced, followed in 1967 by a Ph.D. program. The curricula developed and expanded steadily and by 1970, language courses consisted of three sections: the language itself, linguistics, and literature. While the French and Spanish programs expanded, the German and Russian divisions had smaller enrollments and faculty allocations were reduced. In 1974, an M.A. (Teaching French) program was added and in 1980 the French Language Training Centre was opened. In 1978, the Department was renamed Languages, Literatures and Linguistics, and in 1989 it was disbanded. Upon its dissolution, the Department was replaced by the Departments of French, Linguistics, and Spanish and Latin American Studies. All other language instruction, including Chinese, Hindi, Italian, Latin, and Swahili, was moved to the Division of Interdisciplinary Studies in the Faculty of Arts. The Department was initially organized administratively into a Chair, four sub-departments or divisions (French, German, Russian, and Spanish), and a number of standing committees. The Chair was the chief administrative officer, whose responsibilities included the management of the operational budget; faculty tenure, promotion and salary recommendations; teaching assignments; and representation of the Department to external bodies. While the Chair had overall responsibility to the Department and the Dean of Arts for the efficient operation of the Department, most decisions were made at the committee level with major issues referred to departmental meetings. The Departmental Assistant was responsible for much of the day-to-day administration of the Department, which included the management of the departmental budget, the scheduling of courses, the provision of liaison with administrative offices, and advising students. The number and composition of departmental committees varied over time. In 1966, there were eleven committees, including the Departmental Advisory, Scholarship, Library, Graduate Studies, Curriculum, Journal, Promotions, Projects, Amerindian, Teaching Experiments and Textbook, and Laboratory committees. There were also departmental meetings under the name of the Plenary committee. By 1969, the number of committees had been reduced to four, including the Committee of Chairmen, Graduate Studies, Tenure, and Salaries. The number of divisions within the Department had also expanded to five to include Linguistics, and each of these bodies conducted its own meetings under the leadership of a director who reported to the departmental chair. At the time of an external review in 1975, the significant change to the committees structure was the addition of a Committee of Chairmen -- consisting of the Department Chair, the Departmental Assistant, the five divisional directors, and the chair of the Graduate Studies committee -- and Tenure, Promotion, and Salaries committees. Throughout its history, the Department formed ad hoc committees when required.
John Ellis came to SFU as a charter faculty member in the Faculty of Education. He received his Ed.D degree from the University of California at Berkeley and had a twenty-year career in public education before joining the University to direct the Professional Foundations Program. He served as temporary acting president of SFU for four days following the resignation of Patrick McTaggart-Cowan in May 1968. In November of that year, a series of protests against Simon Fraser University's admissions policies and inconsistent accreditation for courses taken at other institutions culminated in a 65 hour "sit-in" in the University Administration Offices. The University Senate responded by charging Professor Ellis with the responsibility of "the development of a definitive and comprehensive admissions and standings policy in consultation with an advisory committee..." (Simon Fraser University Senate. Minutes of Meeting held November 20, 1968. Although there was an "advisory committee" named by Senate, the final report is the product of Dr. Ellis' research, reflection and writing. Admissions and Standards: A Suggested Policy was released late March 1969. In June 1969, Senate adopted the recommendations of the report with only minor revisions. The admissions controversy was effectively defused. The Ellis Report as it was re-titled by the university community, was widely applauded in post-secondary education circles in British Columbia, and played an important role in the development of Simon Fraser University.
Cliff L. Lloyd was a professor in the Department of Economics and Commerce from 1973 until his sudden death on January 24, 1977. As an experimental economist, he is remembered for his proposed Northern Stores project, an attempt to investigate demand theory (would people buy less of a product if it cost more). For a fuller appreciation of Lloyd's research, see the introductory essays by his SFU colleagues in The Collected Works of Cliff L. Lloyd (F-143-2-0-11).
The British Columbia Division of the Canadian Association of Geographers came into being in 1958. In 1968 this Division became the Western Division of the Canadian Association of Geographers (WDCAG) and they included members of the parent body from Alberta and the Western States. The purposes of the organization are the promotion of geographical study, teaching and research. The Division holds annual meetings and publishes a newsletter and occasional papers.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
The British Columbia Honey Producers' Association (BCHPA) was founded in 1920 and continues as an active organization. Its functions are to promote beekeeping as a profitable activity, promote and assist in the marketing of produce and purchase of supplies, support apicultural research and education, and disseminate information about beekeeping and best practices to both Association members and the general public. BCHPA membership includes both commercial honey producers and hobbyists. The BCHPA was formed as a result of a split within the Beekeepers Association of British Columbia, founded four years earlier in 1916. The disagreements related to the outbreak of a bee disease in 1916 and the requirement of registration for all beekeepers under the provincial government's revised Foul Brood Act. When the BCHPA broke away in 1920 it established two Divisions – Fraser Valley and Kootenay; in 1925 the Vancouver Island Beekeepers' Association joined as a third Division. The two provincial associations merged in 1931, with the older organization entering the BCHPA as the Greater Vancouver Division. Membership in the BCHPA peaked in 1978 with 1,290 members and 32 Divisions. The BCHPA is organized into geographically based Divisions. A Central Executive acts as a coordinating body for Association-wide business, and is assisted by various standing and ad hoc committees. Divisions are headed by their own Executives and are responsible for holding divisional meetings, publishing newsletters, collecting membership fees, operating educational programs, acting as a purchasing cooperative for supplies and medications, advising the Central Executive and preparing resolutions for the BCHPA annual general meeting. The Central Executive is headed by an elected President and consists of officers elected at the annual meeting and appointed regional representatives. It functions primarily as a liaison body between the various Divisions and between the Association as a whole and the provincial Ministry, the BC Federation of Agriculture and the Canadian Honey Council. It is also responsible for producing the Association's newsletter.
In the spring semester 1989, Kathryn McPherson was instructor for Women Studies 202, "History of Women in Canada." As part of the course work, McPherson assigned students to conduct a 2-3 hour interview with a British Columbia woman. Students were encouraged to select a woman over 60 years of age, and the interviewer was responsible for the themes covered. The interviews were recorded and deposited in the Archives.
The SFU Childcare Society presently operates eleven programs that are collectively known as the Children's Centre. The Children's Centre is an independent, legally incorporated non-profit society with registered charitable organization status. The Children's Centre provides full and part time care to approximately 240 children, ranging in age from 3 months to 12 years. Each program has its own physical space and is often referred to as a centre. A Board of Directors is composed of parent representatives, university representatives, childcare staff representatives and community representatives. The Executive Director is an ex-officio, non-voting member of the Board, hired through the University (with direction from the Society Board) to be the Coordinator for the Society and to act as a liaison between the Society and the University. Daycare began at SFU in 1968 when a group of parents established the Simon Fraser Co-operative Family in a student lounge. By 1973, the Family Co-op had grown into the SFU Day Care Society with three units in different locations. By 1976, there were five licensed daycare centres all incorporated under the Burnaby Mountain Day Care Society. In 1976 the University provided 1.2 million dollars to fund construction of a childcare complex, the first of its kind in Canada. The University also supported the appointment of a full-time director, Emily Campbell. For funding purposes, the Burnaby Mountain Day Care Society separated into five non-profit societies, which could each apply for grants. The five societies and their nine centres formed a loose federation, The Burnaby Association of University Child Care Societies, to set overall policy, coordinate activities, and exchange information. Centres remained autonomous in financing, staffing, and style of care. In 1981 it became evident that current levels of University funding were in jeopardy. A Task Force was struck by the University to investigate the current organization of childcare on campus. Following recommendations of that Task Force, the five individual daycare societies were reorganized in 1982 into a single non-profit society, The SFU Childcare Society, which continues today. The SFU Childcare Society is funded primarily through parent user fees and Board fund raising efforts. These monies are used for staff salaries and benefits, program related expenses, equipment purchase and upkeep, playgrounds, administrative costs and utilities. A Licensing Agreement with the University provides for repairs and maintenance service for all the major building structures, comprehensive insurance, and the salary and benefits for the Executive Director and secretarial positions.
One of the original departments of Simon Fraser University, the Department of Mathematics was opened to students in September 1965 as part of the Faculty of Science. The Department has been responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in mathematics and statistics. In 1984 the name of the Department was changed to its present form. In 1965, there were five full and assistant professors, two instructors and one visiting lecturer. In 1986, the faculty comprised twenty professors, eleven associate professors and three assistant professors. Initial programs offered led to the B.Sc., M.Sc. and Ph.D. in Mathematics. In 1977, a B.Sc. (honours) program was introduced. By 1986, honours programs in conjunction with other departments included Mathematical Physics, Mathematics and Computing Science, and Management and Systems Science. The original goal of the Department, which it has continued to emphasize, was to work towards excellence in pure mathematics, and in certain branches of mathematics, statistics and computing – a regimen frequently encountered in British and European universities, but at that time a rarity in North America. Like other SFU departments, the Department of Mathematics and Statistics was organized administratively into a Head (renamed Chair in 1972), and departmental committees. While the Chair had overall responsibility to the Department and the Dean of Science for the efficient operation of the Department, most decisions were made at the committee level with major issues referred to Departmental meetings for decision. The long-standing committees of the Department were the Appointments Committee, renamed the Appointment and long-range Planning Committee; the Graduate Studies Committee; the Undergraduate Studies Committee; and the Salaries, Tenure and Promotion Committee (known also as the Departmental Tenure Committee (DTC) and the Tenure and Promotions Committee).
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
The British Columbia Assembly of Students (BCAS), formally established in 1966, grew out of a 1965 meeting of delegates from universities, colleges, technical schools, and secondary schools. The students wanted a province-wide forum for the discussion of issues relevant to them. The BCAS was succeeded in 1969 by the British Columbia Union of Students, which included only university and regional college representatives. This group concentrated on issues such as unemployment, housing, and civil liberties. For example, it established a student employment task force, and produced a lengthy report on the subject. The BC Union of Students, in turn, was succeeded in 1972 by the British Columbia Association of Student Unions, formed by representatives of 16 student councils across the province. The Association's formal structure was limited; it had no financing, no staff and no central coordination of information. To overcome these limitations, BCASU delegates resolved to restructure the organization. The result was the British Columbia Federation of Students. In order to join the BCSF, a student organization had to conduct a referendum among its members to join the BCSF on the basis of a per student levy. The BCSF provided a means of communication between different student organizations in order to build support for common interests. An executive met regularly and was advised by a number of committees. As well, the BCSF held semi-annual conferences. The BCSF employed staff members from time to time as well as researchers to collect information on topics such as a dental plan, student housing, daycare, student employment, financial aid, transferability of courses, and the financing of post-secondary institutions. In 1982, the Simon Fraser Student Society voted to join the Canadian Federation of Students. The BCSF reformed itself as the Canadian Federation of Students---Pacific Region.
The Department of Philosophy was established by the Board of Governors in 1965 as one of the original Departments in the Faculty of Arts. The Department was responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the discipline of Philosophy. Throughout its existence, the Department has had as its focus Western thought with a predominant analytic orientation. In keeping with the interdisciplinary approach of the University, the Department has been involved with the Cognitive Science and Humanities programs. A M.A. program was added in January 1967. The Department also had an informal liaison with the Ph.D. program at U.B.C., which in 1993 was formalized in the creation of a joint program. Like other SFU departments, the Department of Philosophy was organized into a Head (renamed Chair in 1972) and departmental committees. The Chair was the chief administrative officer responsible for oversight of the operational budget; faculty tenure, promotion and salary recommendations; teaching assignments; and representation of the Department to external bodies. While the Chair had overall responsibility to the Department and the Dean of Arts for the efficient operation of the Department, most decisions were made at the committee level with major issues being referred to departmental meetings for decision. The Departmental Assistant was responsible for much of the day-to-day administration of the Department, which included the management of the departmental budget, the scheduling of courses, the provision of liaison with administrative offices, and advising students. The number and composition of departmental committees varied little over time. In 1969, there were seven standing committees: Curriculum Review; Departmental Tenure; Faculty Search and Screening; Graduate Studies; Library; Undergraduate Studies; and Visiting Speakers. In 1994, there were also seven committees, with the main change being the creation of a Discipline Committee, and the movement of responsibility for graduate and honours admissions to the Committee of the Whole. Ad hoc committees were also formed when needed, such as in the case of the search for a new Chair.
Dennis Roberts was hired in August 1966 as SFU's first full-time Information Officer. In 1972, the Information Office became the University News Service, and Roberts served as its first director. He remained in this position until 1982, when he retired from the University. In addition to his regular duties, Dennis Roberts was in charge of the SFU Pipe and Drum Band for eight years. He was also well-known at SFU as a cartoonist and produced a series of cartoons for Christmas and other events that gently poked fun at various members of the SFU community.
Peter Poole received a Master's degree from SFU for his thesis entitled "Organized Labour Versus the State in British Columbia." The thesis examined the British Columbia labour movement's reaction to the Social Credit government restraint program of 1983. During this period, labour organized Operation Solidarity; as well, various community groups cooperated under the umbrella of the Solidarity Coalition.
Frances Wasserlein is a feminist, historian and social activist. Her research and social activism has focused on issues surrounding women's liberation. She completed a Master of Arts degree in history at Simon Fraser University in 1990. Her thesis, "An Arrow Aimed at the Heart": the Vancouver Women's Caucus and the Abortion Campaign, 1969-1971, investigated the history of the Vancouver Women's Caucus (VWC) and their organizing work for the Abortion Caravan from Vancouver to Ottawa in 1970. Wasserlein was raised in Vancouver. She graduated from the University Program at Little Flower Academy in 1964. Wasserlein acknowledges becoming a feminist in 1976. At the time she was working as a secretary at the University of British Columbia (UBC). Her involvement with the union, and a summer job working at Vancouver Rape Relief contributed to an interest in social justice and social change. In April 1977 she left her job at UBC and began full time undergraduate studies at that university. She completed a BA (honors) in history in 1980. During the summer of 1979 Wasserlein worked as a researcher for the Women's Office at UBC on a project related to the early contributions of women to the establishment of UBC and the role women played in student activism at the university. In 1979 and 1980 she worked with a small group of women to begin Battered Women's Support Services, providing self-help groups for women who were seeking an end to the violence that had driven them and their children from their homes. After receiving her BA from UBC, Wasserlein worked for the YMCA as a co-manager of Munro House for eighteen months. Following that, she worked as a researcher and writer with the Women's Research Centre, working on studies related to the institutionalization of women's services. She supplemented her income by doing bookkeeping for various arts and non-profit organizations. Wasserlein worked on founding Women Against Violence Against Women (WAVAW) in 1982. She was also involved in the work of Women Against the Budget in 1983, a political group opposed to the legislation tabled by the Social Credit government following their victory in the 1983 provincial election. Her interest in the source of conflict between and among individual women activists, and between and among women's organizations, motivated her to seek out the source of these conflicts by examining the history of women's movements in Canada. In 1982, she applied for a Canada Council grant for a women's history project she wished to undertake. The grant application was turned down. In 1985 she enrolled in a Master of Arts degree program in history at Simon Fraser University. After completing her MA, Wasserlein taught women's studies at Langara College in Vancouver, BC until 1997. She has also worked as a sessional instructor at SFU. As of 2002, she was employed as the executive producer of the Vancouver Folk Music Festival.
Andrea Pinto Lebowitz came to Simon Fraser University in 1965 as a charter faculty member in the Department of English. Lebowitz participated in a number of feminist activities including the Women's Caucus. She became the first coordinator of the Women's Studies program and transferred her appointment to the Women's Studies Department in 1997.
Anne Roberts became a member of the Vancouver Women's Caucus in 1969. She worked on The Pedestal, a feminist newspaper published by the Women's Caucus, and participated in the working women's group. Roberts played a key role in organizing the Indo-Chinese Women's Conference, held in Vancouver in 1971. The conference brought together Canadian, American, and Indo-Chinese women to protest the Vietnamese War. Roberts was interviewed by Frances Wasserlein for her 1990 master's thesis, "An Arrow Aimed at the Heart" The Vancouver Women's Caucus and the Abortion Campaign 1969-1971. The transcript of that interview is contained in the Frances Wasserlein fonds, F-162.
Gerry Scott received a Master's degree from SFU in 1991 for his thesis entitled Beyond Equality: British Columbia New Democrats and Native Peoples, 1961-1979. In the preface to his thesis, Scott writes, "My interest in the evolution of the political relationships between British Columbia New Democrats and the aboriginal peoples of the province was first aroused in 1974. At that time I was working as a researcher for the government caucus and I undertook preparation of background papers on aboriginal land claims for the consideration of caucus members. In the 1970s and 1980s I continued to be involved in many of the issues under examination in this thesis through my work as Executive Assistant to Skeena MP Jim Fulton and as Provincial Secretary of the NDP during the years of Bob Skelly's leadership."
Susan Walsh received a Master's degree from SFU in 1984 for her thesis entitled "Equality, Emancipation and a More Just World: Leading Women in the British Columbia Cooperative Commonwealth Federation." In the abstract to her thesis, Walsh writes, "In the wake of suffrage victories, many early twentieth century Canadian women worked hard to make that equality meaningful and to extend it to all areas of women's lives. For those who predicted great changes, however, too few took their hard-earned rights further than the polling station. Most expressed their concerns and goals within the more familiar world of women's organizations. Helena Gutteridge, Laura Jamieson, Dorothy Steeves and Grace MacInnis were among the notable exceptions. While maintaining important ties with women's groups, they sought and won public office, pioneering important paths for generations of Canadian women to follow. These political trail blazers stand out for another important reason. They chose to establish their careers and test their political rights in a socialist party -- the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation -- pledged to sexual emancipation and equal opportunities for women. They were, in short, dual rebels -- as feminists and socialists -- in a sex and class-ordered world."
Dallas Walker Smythe (1907-1992) was an economist and civil servant for the United States government, and a university professor in the field of communications in the United States and Canada. He was born in Regina, Saskatchewan in 1907 and moved to California with his family in 1918. Smythe attended the University of California, Berkeley, where he received an A.B. (Economics) in 1928 and a Ph.D. (Economics) in 1937. His career as an economist began in 1934, when, at the College of Agriculture at the University of California, Berkeley, he worked as an Extension Specialist in Agriculture preparing studies of economic outlooks for various California farm products. He left Berkeley in 1937 for Washington, D.C. to become a civil servant with the federal government. He worked as an economist with the Central Statistical Board, specializing in the coordination and review of agricultural information from various government agencies. In 1938, he joined the Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor as their senior economist. While at this Division, Smythe was responsible for preparing and presenting interpretive studies on the applicability of the Fair Labor Standards Act to a variety of industries, including textile mills, newspapers, railways, and lumber companies. Smythe left the Division in 1942 to become the principal economist, Division of Statistical Standards, Bureau of the Budget. He left that position in 1943 to join the Federal Communications Commission. As their chief economist, Smythe testified at FCC hearings and produced a number of statistical studies and reports on subjects such as radio frequency allocation and the public responsibilities of broadcasters. Throughout his career as a civil servant, Smythe belonged to pacifist or left-wing organizations, which later led to accusations of subversive conduct and disloyalty to the American government. Smythe left the civil service in 1948 to join the faculty of the newly-formed Institute of Communications Research at the University of Illinois. In addition to lecturing on general economics, he taught the first course in the United States on the political economy of communications. The primary focus of his research was television, including its content, effects on family life, and portrayal of reality. He also studied the mass media and its influence on public opinion. With the development of satellite communication, he studied the effects of this new technology on international communications. Partly because of his pacifist political beliefs, Smythe left the United States in 1963 to become the first Chairman of the Social Sciences Division at the Regina Campus of the University of Saskatchewan. When he reached the mandatory retirement age in 1973, he left Regina to serve as visiting professor of communications at the University of California, San Diego. He joined the faculty of Simon Fraser University in 1974, serving as the first chairman of the Department of Communications Studies. While Smythe continued to write on mass media, regulating the radio spectrum, and communications theory, he also produced Dependency Road: Communications, Capitalism, Consciousness and Canada, his study of the domination of Canadian communications by American influences and its effects on consciousness. Smythe became professor emeritus at Simon Fraser University in 1980. Following a brief period at Temple University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, he returned to teach at SFU until 1986. He accepted short-term appointments at Ohio State University and the University of Hawaii before retiring in 1988. He was working on his autobiography and a book about the theory of communications when he died in 1992. Smythe married twice and had five children. He and his first wife Beatrice had three children: Sandra (born 1937), Susan (born 1938), and Roger (born 1943). Smythe later married Jennie Newsome Pitts, and the couple had two children: Patrick (born 1954), and Carol (born 1961).
The Fraser Valley University Society was established on February 5, 1991. Founding members of the Society included members of several Canadian Federation of University Women's clubs, particularly Karen Yong and Sharon Shilliday of the Delta University Women's Club; members of the Fraser Valley Real Estate Board; as well as individuals and representatives of organizations from communities throughout the Fraser Valley. Many of these individuals had been involved in a predecessor group, the Fraser South University Society, which had been established by Yong and Shilliday in November 1990. The Society's mandate was to "ensure the development of appropriate legislation creating a new university in the Fraser Valley." The main purposes of the Society were: to further the development of university education in the Fraser Valley by encouraging the Provincial Government to legislate the establishment of an independent, degree-granting institution; to foster public education initiatives promoting the social, economic and cultural value of a university; to actively pursue excellence in university education for all communities in the Fraser Valley; and to improve access to university education. The Society was headed by an elected Board of Directors. The Board of Directors appointed the following officer positions: President, Vice-President, Treasurer, and Secretary. Committees, headed by a Chair, were created to carry out the objectives of the Society. The original five committees of the society were the Public Relations Committee, Community Relations Committee, Fundraising Committee, Membership Committee, and the Government Committee. The first President of the Society was Karen Yong. She was succeeded in 1993 by Robert (Bob) Lowe, who remained President until the Society's dissolution. At its height, membership in the Society was over 1,100 members. The Society enlisted the assistance of local government and community organizations in its efforts. From its inception, the Society received financial and other support, including office space in Surrey, from the Fraser Valley Real Estate Board. Other funds were obtained through government grant applications, membership fees, donations, and fundraising events. The Society also concentrated on promotional and community relations activities. Members collected over 7,000 petition signatures, set up information kiosks in malls and at public events, made presentations to local groups, solicited media coverage of Society events and activities, and distributed promotional material. The Society created and collaborated on several reports concerning the need for post-secondary education in the Fraser Valley, and established relationships with members of local and provincial governments. In 1994 the Society began to place increased pressure on the Provincial Government and, after many meetings and much correspondence, Premier Mike Harcourt announced in February 1995 his government's support for the creation of a Technical University in the Fraser Valley (the Technical University of British Columbia). In May 1995 Society Board member Sharon Shilliday was appointed to the Interim Planning Council for the University; the Council became part of the Technical University Society of British Columbia when it was registered on August 10, 1995. As a result of the Government's commitment to the creation of a new university, the Society evolved into a public foundation responsible for raising funds for the Technical University of British Columbia and its students. The Society's constitution was amended in August 1996 to reflect this change in mandate. In February 1998, a unanimous decision was made to dissolve the Society and transfer its fundraising responsibilities, as well as accumulated funds, assets, and records to the Technical University of British Columbia. Fundraising responsibilities were assumed by the University's new Vice-President External Affairs and Research. At an extraordinary meeting of the Society on April 28, 1998, the Society was dissolved.
The TeleLearning Network of Centres of Excellence (TL-NCE) was established in 1995 when the federal government's Networks of Centres of Excellence (NCE) program awarded a grant to create a network of researchers from Canadian universities, focusing on the development and application of networked technologies in education and training. TeleLearning established a management office to administer its affairs, and on April 7 1997 the office incorporated under the Corporations Act as TeleLearning Network Inc. (TN Inc.), a not-for-profit corporation. Ostensibly two separate bodies, each with its own Board of Directors, in practice TL-NCE and TN Inc. were not distinct: Board members were identical for both and the same Board session dealt with the affairs of both. TL-NCE was the "research face" and TN Inc. the "legal-administrative face" of the same organization. TeleLearning's renewal application in 2001 for a second round of NCE funding was unsuccessful. The decision was made to close out the Network, and on September 30, 2002 the corporation was officially dissolved. TeleLearning's mandate was to research, develop and demonstrate effective knowledge-building pedagogies, implemented through telelearning; to support the development of a knowledge economy and learning society in Canada; and to transfer the resulting knowledge into Canadian organizations, institutions of learning and Canadian companies for worldwide exploitation. Its main functions were to organize further research and distribute funding to individual projects through seven distinct research themes; publicize research results through publications, reports, and conferences; promote cooperation among private, public and university sectors; and encourage the development of commercial applications and technologies through the formation of spin-off companies. TeleLearning was primarily funded by the federal government through the NCE programs of the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC), and Industry Canada. Additional funding was obtained through TeleLearning membership fees from participating public and private-sector organizations, including international affiliates. The chief officers of the Network were the Network Leader, Network Co-Leader, and the Executive Director. The Board of Directors was responsible for the overall management and direction of the Network, with certain powers delegated to an appointed Executive Committee. Other committees advised the Board, including the Program Committee and the Knowledge and Technology Transfer Committee. Relations between the Network and member organizations was regulated by the Network Internal Agreement. TeleLearning's management office operated out of Simon Fraser University, which served as the Network's host institution. The main functions of the management office were disbursement of funds, NCE reporting, communications, member liaison, assistance with funding proposals, and conference organization. As host institution, SFU provided TeleLearning with office space, facilities, and some administrative services (e.g. payroll and finances). The TeleLearning Network was originally built around four "beacon technologies": Collaboration Architecture and Design Resources for Telelearning (CadreTel), Computer Supported Intentional Learning Environment (CSILE), Teleform, and Virtual-University (Virtual-U). Over 240 public- and private-sector organizations participated in its projects, including over 130 faculty from 30 Canadian universities. The Network supported the growth of the online learning industry with the development of more than 45 software prototypes. Its spin-off companies included TELEStraining Inc., ClearMed Medical Knowledge Inc., Math Resources Inc., Nomino Inc., InVentures Incubator Inc., Cogigraph, the Portal for Online Objects in Learning (POOL), and TeleLearning Solutions Inc.
Lorne M. Kendall was the first head of the Psychology Department at Simon Fraser University. Mary Kendall was his wife.
Mark L. Winston is a professor of Biological Sciences at Simon Fraser University, known for his research in apiculture - the management and study of honey bees - and his writing about science, nature, and environmental issues. He is also a professor and senior fellow with the Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue program at the Morris J. Wosk Centre for Dialogue at SFU Harbour Centre. Born Mark Leslie Winston on April 7, 1950 in Brooklyn, New York to Ruth and Larry Winston, he grew up with one younger brother, Scott. They moved to South Euclid, Ohio in 1958, and Winston went to Charles F. Brush high school, one of the premier science-intensive public schools in the United States, where he earned awards for academic excellence and athletics (in track). As a young adult he was active in the Jewish Community Centre of Cleveland, serving as president of the Teen Age Board in 1967, and also became politically active in the anti-Vietnam war movement. In 1968 Winston began undergraduate studies at the University of Chicago, transferring to Boston University in 1970. He graduated with a B.Sc. in Biology in 1971, and moved to Woods Hole, Massachusetts to work in marine biology at the Oceanographic Institute and the Marine Biological Laboratory. He returned to the Boston University Marine Program and earned an M.A. in 1975, studying hermit crab behaviour. In 1978, he earned a Ph.D. in Entomology from the University of Kansas. The start of his career-defining path with bees began while working on his Ph.D. and studying Africanized Bees in French Guiana. On June 1, 1980, Mark Winston married Susan Katz in Beverly Hills, California. They have one daughter, Devora Winston, who was born in 1984. Prior to moving to Canada to work at Simon Fraser University, Winston worked at the University of Kansas from 1978 to 1979 as a post-doctoral fellow. He was then employed as a visiting assistant professor at Idaho State University from 1979 to 1980. In September 1980 he began teaching at SFU in the Biological Sciences Department as an assistant professor. In 1984 he was promoted to associate professor and in 1988 became a full professor. In 2002 Winston stepped back from teaching biology to focus on the Semester in Dialogue program and pursue his interests in science communication, dialogue, and facilitation, inspired in part by his study of bees and their interactions and collaborative nature. That year he founded and became the director of the Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue program, a position he held until 2014. From 2002, he was also a fellow with the Centre for Dialogue at SFU’s Vancouver campus and its academic director from 2006 through 2014. In 2006 he also taught in the inaugural Science Communication program at the Banff Centre in Alberta. Winston continues to be a professor and now senior fellow with the Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue. The program combines experiential and interdisciplinary learning, community engagement, collaboration, mentoring, leadership, and dialogue-based interactions among students and community leaders on a variety of themes and public issues. Winston's research areas in the biological sciences include insect behavioral ecology, apiculture, and pollinator biodiversity. At SFU he has taught courses on insect biology, social insects, introduction to beekeeping, and entomology. From 1983 to 1993 Winston presented a 9-part television series titled "Apiculture: An Introduction to Bees & Beekeeping" that was aired annually on the Knowledge Network. As an extension of this series, he developed the Bee Masters program, a week-long public beekeeping course at SFU offered bi-annually in collaboration with the BC Ministry of Agriculture. Winston's research has also led him to patent a pheromone composition that is used for managing honey bee colonies. Mark Winston has been a prolific writer during his academic career. He has authored or co-authored over 150 scientific papers. In 1987 he published his first book, "The Biology of the Honey Bee" that was followed by a French version in 1993 and a Portuguese version in 2003. In 1992 "Killer Bees: The Africanized Honey Bee in the Americas" was published, followed by "Nature Wars: People vs. Pests" in 1997. In 2003 a Chinese version of Nature Wars was released. Winston's fourth book was published in 1998, titled "From Where I Sit: Essays on Bees, Beekeeping, and Science". In 1998 he also co-authored "Chemical Communication in Social Insects" with R.K. Vandermeer, M.D. Breed, and K. Espelie. In 2002, Winston published "Travels in the Genetically Modified Zone," which was followed by Australian, Southeast Asian and Japanese editions between 2003 and 2004. His most recent book, "Bee Time: Lessons from the Hive," was published by Harvard University Press in 2014. It won the 2014 Science in Society General Book Award from the Canadian Science Writers Association, and the prestigious 2015 Governor General's Literary Award for non-fiction . Winston has written articles that have appeared in the Encyclopedia Britannica, The Sciences, Orion magazine, The Vancouver Sun (since 1999), The New York Times, and published a monthly column in Bee Culture Magazine (1994-2005). He has appeared in numerous radio and television programs including CBC's "Quirks & Quarks", CBC "Newsworld", and on National Public Radio in the United States. Winston has been an active participant in local, national and international apiculture-related and other organizations. From 1994 to 1998 he served as President of the Canadian Association of Professional Apiculturists; founding Director and Chair of the Canadian Bee Research Fund from 1997-2001; Program Chair for Apimondia '99, the 1999 meeting of the International Federation of Beekeepers Associations held in Vancouver; and Chair of the External Advisory Committee, NSERC Biocontrol Research Network from 2002-2006. More recently, he served as a member of the Vancouver Foundation Education Advisory Committee, and as a science and technology jury member for the Jack Webster Awards for Journalism. As an outcome of his research, teaching, and extension activities with beekeepers and the public, Winston is regarded as the world's leading expert on bees and pollination. As such, he has served as a legal consultant for firms in BC, Ontario, and California; as a film and television consultant since 1984 for locally shot programs including the "Beachcombers", "X-files", and "Smallville", production companies such as First Wave Productions, Creative Animal Talent, Great Northern Productions, television movies, and documentaries; as a business consultant; as a publishing consultant for book proposals, and a manuscript reviewer for Harvard University Press. He has also done consulting work for the Canadian Biotechnology Advisory Committee, as well as the Canadian Food Inspection Agency Enforcement & Investigations. In 2006 the CBC television program "The Nature of Things" broadcast "Beetalker," an hour-long exploration of Winston's career and interactions with students, beekeepers, artists, and the public. With his additional interest in science communication and outgrowth into dialogue, facilitation, and leadership resulting from his work with the Semester in Dialogue, Winston has also consulted for various businesses, governments, and NGOs. Of particular note is his extensive work with Action Canada from 2003 through 2008. Winston's research has been recognized by a number of awards. A sample of these include the C.G. Hewitt Award from the Entomological Society of Canada (1985); Fulbright Award from the Council of International Exchange of Scholars (1986-1987); a Gold Medal in the Natural Sciences from the Science Research Council of BC (1992); NSERC Senior Industrial Fellow (1995); Manning Award for Innovation (1997); the Sterling Prize in Controversy (1998); a Killam Research Fellowship (2000-2002); Academic of the Year from the Confederation of University Faculty Associations (2001); an Environmental Award for Communication from the City of Burnaby (2001); the Eve Savory Award for Science Communication from the Science Council of BC (2001); election to the Royal Society of Canada as a Fellow, (2003); the Fred Rathje Memorial Award from the Canadian Honey Council (2004); the NSERC Michael Smith Award (2004) for outstanding promotion of science in Canada; the Outstanding Service Award from the Canadian Association of Professional Apiculturists (2006); the President's 40th Anniversary Award from Simon Fraser University (2006); and the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal for excellence in higher education (2012).
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
Ann Carey Messenger was a Professor in the Department of English at Simon Fraser University. She was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on May 31, 1933 to Raymond and Lillian Parshall. Between 1951 and 1955, Messenger attended Oberlin College in Ohio. Awarded a Snell Scholarship for 1952 to 1955, she completed a B.A. in English Literature in 1955. In September of 1955, Messenger began studies at Oxford University in England; she attended Oxford under a Fulbright Scholarship in 1955/56 and a Snell Scholarship in 1956/57. After completing a second B.A. at Oxford, Messenger returned to the United States in 1957, where she procured a job as a secretary at the Princeton University Library Rare Books Department. The following year, in 1958, she began studies at Cornell University. She remained at Cornell for two years, teaching freshman composition and earning credits for an Hon. M.A. at Oxford, which she completed in 1961. During her first year at Cornell she met William (Bill) Messenger, a fellow graduate English student, and the two were married in Pittsburgh in 1960. After their marriage, they stayed in Pennsylvania, teaching at Bucknell University in Lewisburg for a year, before moving to California. In California, Ann taught, and Bill took post-graduate courses and taught, at the University of California, Berkeley. In September 1963, she began teaching at San Francisco State College. While teaching, she continued working towards her Ph.D., which she was awarded through Cornell University in 1964; Bill completed his PhD. from Berkeley in 1968. In August 1966 the Messengers moved to Vancouver, British Columbia, to teach at the University of British Columbia (UBC). They immediately fell in love with the city and purchased a home in Point Grey. In September 1968, Messenger secured a job as an Assistant Professor in the English Department at the recently established Simon Fraser University, attaining the rank of Professor in 1973. Her area of expertise as a professor was Restoration and 18th Century literature. In the early 1970s she began to cultivate an interest in the forgotten female writers of the period, and her research developed in this direction. Bill became an Assistant Professor at UBC in 1969, and an Associate Professor in 1982. In 1988, Messenger was diagnosed with the first of multiple cancers. As a result of her illness, she was unable to teach, and in 1990 she went on long-term disability. In spite of her illness, her passion for bringing to light female writers of the Restoration and 18th Century encouraged Messenger to continue to write and edit books, papers, and journal articles on the subject, often hiring people to do some of the research that she was unable to carry out herself. These works included the books "His and Hers: Essays in Restoration and Eighteenth Century Literature" (author, published 1986); "Gender at Work: Four Women Writers of the Eighteenth Century" (contributor and editor, published 1990); a new edition of Ellis Cornelia Knight's "Dinarbas"(editor, published 1993); "Woman and Poet in the Eighteenth Century: The Life of Mary Whateley Darwall (1738-1825)" (author, published 1999); "Pastoral Tradition and the Female Talent: Studies in Augustan Poetry" (author, published 1999); and "The Works of Mary Leapor" (co-editor, published 2004). In 1993, Messenger set up the Aphra Behn Endowment Fund, named after the female poet. This fund was renamed the Ann Messenger Graduate Endowment Fund in 1996. Despite Messenger's determination to fight her illness, the cancer continued to reoccur, and she passed away on February 1, 1996. Bill Messenger, who had taken early retirement in 1988 to care for Ann, passed away on June 15, 2003 due to complications from pneumonia and Alzheimer's Disease.
The Technical University of British Columbia had its roots in the Fraser Valley University Society, a group of concerned citizens founded in February 1991 to lobby government for the creation of a university in the Fraser Valley. On February 2, 1995, the Society's efforts were rewarded when Premier Mike Harcourt announced that $100 million would be provided for the establishment of a technical university in Cloverdale. According to the "Statement of Government Purpose" that was issued for the university, there was to be an emphasis on access, applied research, innovative programs, and the use of new learning technologies. Partnerships were to be developed with private industry to decrease operating costs, and there would be a unique governance structure. On May 1st 1995, thirteen people were appointed by the Minister of Skills, Training and Labour to an Interim Planning Council (IPC), which was to provide advice to the government regarding the mandate and characteristics of the "Technical University of British Columbia" (TechBC); the first meeting of the IPC took place on June 10th. The original terms of reference for the University were delivered by the Ministry on May 8th, and on August 10th the original constitution and bylaws were registered, under the name "Technical University Society of British Columbia." The first President of TechBC, Dr. Bernard Sheehan, an original IPC member, was appointed on January 1, 1996. On September 27, 1996 the IPC presented its final report to the Provincial Government, and on October 19th the twenty member Council was replaced by a five member Interim Governing Board. The establishing legislation for the Technical University of British Columbia, Bill 30, was introduced on June 9, 1997, and the Government announced a $2.8 million operating grant for the University. On July 28th, Bill 30 received its third reading; however, the lack of a union, tenure, and a senate in the proposed governance structure prompted the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) to protest the bill. When the "Technical University of British Columbia Act" was eventually proclaimed on December 5, 1997, CAUT boycotted the new University. The first meeting of the Board of Governors was one week later, on December 12th. An Academic Planning Board was created in place of a senate and on May 8, 1998, the CAUT boycott was lifted. During this entire period, the University's location was a source of controversy and dispute. The Cloverdale site was deemed unsuitable and, eventually, on July 20, 1998 it was announced that the University campus would be constructed at Surrey City Centre. On October 14th, TechBC's Education and Information Centre at Surrey Place Mall was officially opened, although some students had been attending classes offered through other universities at that location since September 10th. The first ninety students for TechOne, the required first year program for TechBC students, did not begin classes until the following September, and the official opening ceremony for the University was held at Surrey Place Mall on October 14, 1999. A few weeks earlier, on September 23rd, a second announcement had been made confirming plans to construct a 450,000 square foot campus at Surrey City Centre; the development project, scheduled for completion in 2003, would be a joint venture with ICBC, the City of Surrey, and the Provincial Government. In July 2000, the amount of space allocated to TechBC at Surrey Place Mall was increased to 110,000 square feet. When it opened, TechBC offered Bachelor of Science and Master of Applied Science degrees in three program areas: Information Technology, Interactive Arts, and Management and Technology. In May 2000 the University received government approval for a PhD. program in Applied Science to begin in February 2001. TechBC Corporation, a wholly-owned, for revenue subsidiary of TechBC, was created in October 1999 in order to establish partnerships with private industry, conduct applied research, and develop and support new businesses. In September 2000 Sheehan resigned, and the search for a new President began; Dr. Jean Watters was selected, and he began his term in August 2001. His term, however, would be a short one. In May 2001 a Liberal government had been elected in British Columbia. After months of investigation into the TechBC situation, the Government withdrew its support of the University. On February 7, 2002 it was announced that TechBC would be closed at the end of the academic year, and its students and modified programs transferred to Simon Fraser University, although the Surrey campus would remain in use. Watters' last day as President was March 20, 2002.
The Office of the President reported to the Board of Governors. In August 2000, the Office consisted of the President and Vice-Chancellor; VP Business and Finance, VP Research and External Affairs, and VP Academic; Associate Vice-President; Legal Counsel; Director of Communications and Community Relations; Budget Analyst and Secretary to the Board of Governors; Executive Assistant to the President; and Administrative Assistant to the Associate Vice-President.
Established by the "Technical University of British Columbia Act" on December 5, 1997, the Board of Governors was the principal decison-making body at the University. It was composed of the Chancellor, the President, two teaching staff members, eight people appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, two students, and one university employee who was not a teaching staff member. According to the Act, the Board was mandated to "approve strategic program and research directions and policies"; make decisions concerning TechBC programs and program areas; and provide reports to the appropriate Ministry as necessary. The Board was also responsible for appointing a President for the University. Its first meeting was on December 12, 1997. The Board had a number of standing committees; these were the Academic Planning Board, Audit Committtee, Business and Finance Committee, Executive Committee, Human Resources Committee, and Senior Compensation Committee. Other committees established by the Board were the University Review Committee and the Presidential Search Committee. In light of the Provincial Government's February 2002 decision to close TechBC, the Board began the process of dissolving its committees at its March 11, 2002 meeting. The final meeting of the Board took place on July 31, 2002.
The Academic Planning Board (APB) was a committee of the Board of Governors created on May 8, 1998 in response to the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) and Confederation of University Faculty Associations of BC (CUFA) boycott. It was responsible for dealing with learning and research function issues, the creation of academic goals and priorities, and the establishment of short- and long-term academic plans. The APB was also able to pass motions pertaining to academic freedom and employment issues. It was dissolved on July 5, 2002.
Percilla Groves was a charter member of Local 2 of the Association of University and College Employees, an independent union founded on feminist principles. She served as the library representative on the first and second AUCE Local 2 contract committees and chaired the committee at various times. As of 2003, she is a librarian at SFU. An autobiographical sketch is available in the hard copy version of the finding aid maintained in the Archives Reading Room.
Evelyn T. and Leigh Hunt Palmer were active members of the Simon Fraser academic community from 1966 until their retirement in 2001. Leigh served as an associate professor of physics while Evelyn was a laboratory instructor in chemistry. Both Palmers were active in university affairs and in scientific and cultural groups. They sponsored a number of seminars and lectures at SFU including the Albert Einstein Memorial Lecture Series, which they initiated on the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Albert Einstein. For further details of the Palmers' careers and achievements, see the autobiographical sketch in the Appendix (available only in the Archives reading room).
Vivien Leong graduated from SFU in 1990 with a major in communication. During her time as a student, she was a member of the Recycling Group of the B.C. Public Interest Research Group, and the Communications Student Union. The B.C. PIRG recycling program was the first such effort on campus.
Press Gang Publishers was a feminist printing press publishing quality trade paperback books—fiction, non-fiction, poetry and art—primarily by Canadian women authors and artists. Their non-fiction books addressed such social issues as the treatment of women by the mental health system, recovery from childhood sexual abuse, lesbian identity, homophobia and censorship, and women in conflict with the criminal justice system. Press Gang authors won numerous awards for their work. Press Gang Publishers evolved from a feminist printing and publishing collective of the same name. The original Press Gang was a small collective of men and women who incorporated under British Columbia's Companies Act as Press Gang Publishers Ltd. in April 1970. By 1974, the collective had become a women-only, feminist and anti-capitalist printshop, with paid and volunteer workers. Press Gang published its first book under its own imprint in 1976, a collection of essays entitled "Women Look at Psychiatry." Over the years, printing and publishing activities increasingly diverged, and in 1982 Press Gang established a separate collective to manage the publishing operations. In 1989 the separation was completed when the two collectives formally became distinct legal and corporate entities, Press Gang Printers Ltd. and Press Gang Publishers Feminist Cooperative. The two organizations, however, remained closely associated. In 1993 Press Gang Printers ceased to exist due to economic pressures in the printing trade and on their clientele (grassroots, community organizations). Full-time staff members of Press Gang Publishers included managing editor Barbara Kuhne; financial manager Della McCreary; and art director/production manager Val Speidel. Paula Clancy and Nancy Pollak also served on the Press Gang Board. Because of changes in the book publishing industry and the book selling marketplace, smaller publishers such as Press Gang faced difficult times. In 2000, Press Gang formed an alliance with Polestar Publishers of Victoria and issued a joint catalogue. Shortly thereafter, Polestar was purchased by Raincoast Books. In 2002, Press Gang Publishers declared bankruptcy after thirty years as a major independent feminist publisher. Some of their titles are still distributed by Raincoast Books and by Lazara Press.
Manfred Mackauer was a professor of biology at Simon Fraser University. He retired from his teaching duties in 1997.
Lolita Wilson came to Simon Fraser University in August 1965 as Dean of Women and Associate Professor of Psychology. She subsequently served in a number of positions at the University including Acting Registrar, Dean of Student Affairs, and Assistant to the Vice-President, Academic. She retired from SFU in 1978.
Organized in Toronto on June 27, 1876, the Sons of Scotland Benevolent Association is a fraternal association of Scottish people, their spouses, and their descendants in Canada. Its functions are to "preserve and promote Scottish heritage and culture in Canada" by maintaining Scottish historical, literary, and musical traditions, and to promote among its members a feeling of community and comradery. Additionally, the Sons of Scotland is a fraternal benefit association; membership dues entitle members to a certain amount of insurance coverage, which can be increased according to their needs. The Sons of Scotland was incorporated by the Province of Ontario in 1880, and by the Dominion of Canada in 1937. It is governed by a central Executive Board in Toronto called the Grand Camp, which was established in 1878 and is headed by a Grand Chief and a Grand Chieftain. Grand Camp Executive officers are elected for three year terms. The Association is then divided into districts. There are currently four districts: Toronto District No. 7, Montreal District No. 14, Winnipeg District No. 15, and British Columbia District No. 16. The districts, in turn, consist of several camps, called subordinate camps. Each district and camp is governed by an Executive Board, which is headed by a chief and a chieftain. Executive officers of district and subordinate camps are elected on an annual basis. In addition to regular meetings, the Association organizes and hosts social events, such as dances, dinners, picnics, and games.
District No. 16 is the district for British Columbia, and has included camps in Burnaby, Vancouver, New Westminster, Chilliwack, Victoria, Vernon, and Prince George.
The Glamis Camp was established in the Kitsilano area of Vancouver on June 2, 1937. Thirty-seven members were initiated into the Camp at this first meeting. John Brown was chosen as Worthy Chief, and William Fraser as Chieftain. Annual dues for honorary members were three dollars; annual dues for active members were dependent upon the type of insurance they had. The Camp first met at Killarney Hall, at 2nd Avenue and Bayswater Street, but due to increased membership, began meeting in the larger Elks Hall at 901 Dunsmuir Street in April 1938. After January 1943, the Camp met in various downtown and Kitsilano locations. The Camp is still active, meeting monthly at the Scottish Cultural Centre at 8886 Hudson Street in South Vancouver.
The inaugural meeting of the Glengarry Camp took place on December 10, 1937, and the Camp was officially instituted on December 13, 1937. Out of eighty-three applicants, sixty-seven new members were initiated. Worthy Chief was Mathew Grindley, and John Maclean was the Chieftain. The Camp met monthly at the I.O.O.F. Hall on Hastings Street at Kamloops Street. As of 1944, the initiation fee for active and honorary members was two dollars, and the quarterly fee for active members was one dollar and five cents. In May 1975, the Camp began holding joint meetings with the Montrose Camp. Executive positions were shared between the two camps. The camps continued to hold joint meetings until the Montrose Camp was disbanded on May 31, 1981, and approximately sixty Montrose members were integrated into the Glengarry Camp. As of 2004, the Camp continues to meet monthly, at the I.O.O.F. Hall at 7728 Edmonds St. in Burnaby.
The Lord Tweedsmuir Camp, named after the then Governor General, was founded in the Kerrisdale area of Vancouver, and instituted on April 20, 1936. For honorary members, the initiation fee was two dollars, with an annual fee of three dollars, and for active members the initiation fee was eight dollars, with a monthly fee of fifty cents. The Camp met at the Canadian Legion Hall at 42nd Avenue and Yew Street until June 1960, and then at the South Main Masonic Hall on Main Street, until June 1987. In September 1987, the camp began meeting at 2146 W. 41st Avenue, and the Camp, which is still active, continues to meet at that location.
On October 23, 1968, a meeting was held at the Rod and Gun Club at No. 3 and Cambie roads in Richmond, for the purpose of instituting a new camp. The camp was named the Murray Camp, in honor of Camp Organizer Alex Murray, who had been an active member of the Sons of Scotland for thirty-two years. There were eighty-seven members accepted into the Camp at the meeting. The first Chief was Alex McKelvie, and the first Chieftain was W. Kane. The camp later met at the South Arm Community Center (March 1969 to February 1975), and then the Richmond United Church hall on Cambie Road. On June 13, 1975, a special meeting was held to discuss whether or not the Camp would disband, due to its declining membership and a perceived lack of membership support for the Executive. After a vote in favour of disbanding, the Camp was dissolved.
On August 19, 1895, members of the St. Andrews and Caledonian Society met in the Society's rooms on the Dunn Miller Block in Vancouver. Their guest for the evening was Captain D.M. Robertson, the Grand Secretary of the Sons of Scotland Benevolent Association. Robertson had come from Toronto with the intention of establishing a camp in Vancouver. By the end of the evening, thirty men had signed a petition to the Grand Chief, officers, and members of the Grand Camp for the creation of a subordinate camp in Vancouver. Robert Clark was elected as the first Chief, and John Johnstone as the first Chieftain. Five dollars was agreed upon as the initiation fee for members. At the next meeting, on August 29, the name Royal Scot was selected, and the name was formally adopted at the September 16 meeting. By December 21, 1899, the Camp had sixty-two members. Among the occupations listed for members between 1895 and 1899 were merchant, contractor, lumberman, physician, sailor, engineer, and policeman. The Camp is no longer active, but was in existence until 1969, at least.
The Department of Physics at S.F.U. was founded in 1964 as a charter department in the Faculty of Science. The Department was responsible, through its Chair, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the field of Physics. From the outset, the Department has offered programs leading to B.Sc., M.Sc., and Ph.D. degrees. In keeping with the interdisciplinary nature of studies at S.F.U., the Department was involved in co-operative programs within the Faculty of Science, including joint degree programs with Mathematics and Statistics and Chemistry. Since the early 1970s, the Department has been involved in the TRIUMF (Tri-University Meson Facility) project at U.B.C, and it has also been involved in two faculty research bodies: the Theoretical Science Institute and the Energy Research Institute. The Department was organized administratively into a Chair, Departmental Assistant, Lab Co-ordinator, and a number of standing committees. The Chair was the chief administrative officer, whose responsibilities included the management of the operational budget; faculty tenure, promotion and salary recommendations; teaching assignments; and representation of the Department to external bodies, including the Faculty, Senate and Board of Governors. The Chair reported directly to the Dean of Science. The Departmental Assistant was responsible for much of the day-to-day administration and the management of the departmental budget, the scheduling of courses, the provision of liaison with administrative offices, and advising students. The Lab Co-ordinator acted as liaison between faculty and graduate students and departmental technicians. The number and composition of departmental committees varied greatly over time. Long-standing committees included Departmental Tenure, Graduate Admissions, Graduate Studies, High School Liaison, Student Qualifying, and Undergraduate Curriculum. There was also departmental representation on faculty and university committees, including the faculty curriculum committees and the University Radiological Safety and University Review committees. The Department also struck ad hoc committees when required.
The John Howard Society of the Lower Mainland of British Columbia (JHSLM) takes its name and its spirit from the 18th century English prison reformer who observed unjust social conditions in prisons, both as a prisoner of war during the Seven Years War, and as High Sheriff of Bedfordshire, a post which included the task of inspecting local prisons. The suffering that John Howard endured and witnessed led him to become a lifelong advocate for criminal and social justice reform. Throughout his life he demonstrated a firm belief that every citizen must ultimately accept his or her individual responsibility for the criminal justice system. The society began as the John Howard Society of British Columbia, established in Vancouver in 1931. It was the first John Howard Society in Canada. The objects of the Society as outlined in its Constitution (1932) were to seek to remove conditions which lead persons into crime; to befriend the first offender; to work for the wise and just treatment of those confirmed to penal institutions; to guide and help the mothers, wives and children of men in prison; to help discharged and paroled men and women to re-establish themselves; and to work for wise and just legislation with reference to court procedures and penal administration. The Society has grown so that in 2020 there are over 60 John Howard Societies across Canada with a national office in Ottawa. Throughout its history, the professional staff of the Society have been responsible for visiting regularly or being on-call to various correctional facilities throughout British Columbia. These include prisons, forest camps, community correctional centres and half-way houses. Staff offer counseling, advocacy, pre-release planning, educational guidance and develop self-help groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous and the Seventh Step Society. Staff also assist clients in the courts offering pre-sentence intervention, alternatives to incarceration, and counseling. In addition, family members are supported by the Society in acquiring life skills and attending community development programs. Today, the JHSLM has expanded its services to assist people with complex needs achieve greater independence and value their positive contributions to society. While the JHSLM continues to advocate for and support people impacted by the criminal justice system, the organization has developed an expertise in assisting people facing multiple barriers, including those who may be experiencing homelessness, unemployment, problematic substance abuse, mental health challenges, developmental disabilities, or spectrum disorders. This is done through a range of programs that provide assistance with housing, life-skills, education, employment, and community-based services, with the goal of creating a safe, healthy and inclusive community for all. The Society is also involved in parole, probation, bail supervision and community assessments, lessening the demands on existing facilities. In the area of education, the Society provides speakers for service clubs, churches and community groups desiring information about the criminal justice system and for furthering the cause of penal reform. In the area of advocacy, the Society's staff has been involved in preparing briefs and papers and corresponding with Government officials and others in an attempt to monitor the criminal justice system and encourage alternatives. Organizationally, the John Howard Society of BC and the Vancouver Office of the JHS operated under the same roof and had the same executive director until 1983 when the provincial office was removed to Victoria, physically separated from any local branch office. At that time the JHS of BC and the JHS of Vancouver Island were amalgamated. The Vancouver office became the John Howard Society of the Lower Mainland of BC. There are currently seven regional John Howard Society’s in BC, and one provincial organization which now operates in the same office as the JHSLM.
The Office of the Associate Vice-President, Academic (AVPA) has its origins in the appointment of Ian Mugridge as Assistant Vice-President, Academic in 1972. At that time, the Office of the Vice-President, Academic (VPA) was itself a relatively new unit, having been established only two years before in 1970 (see fonds F-200 for the administrative history of the VPA's Office). The appointment of an Assistant enabled the VPA to delegate a number of responsibilities to the new position: administrative supervision of certain academic support departments (Library, Registrar, Academic Advice Centre), space allocation planning, and some involvement in academic planning. Mugridge left the university in 1975; his successors took the title of Associate Vice-President, Academic. By 1986 the AVPA's Office had established its own record-keeping system and maintained its own files separate from those of the VPA. Over the years, the division of responsibilities between the VPA and the AVPA has evolved considerably. Academic planning and budget planning generally remained with the VPA until 2001, when a reorganization of the portfolio delegated the primary responsibility for these activities to the AVPA. Space planning and allocation were early delegated to the AVPA in 1972 and have remained with this position since that time From 1975 to 2001, the primary focus of the AVPA's mandate was the management of employment relations with the university's academic staff. This began with the appointment of Dan Birch as AVPA in 1975. The AVPA took the lead role in negotiating a collective bargaining agreement with the Teaching Support Staff Union (TSSU) in 1979; throughout the 1980s and 1990s the AVPA was the university's chief negotiator with the SFU Faculty Association (SFUFA); and in 1996 the AVPA assumed direct responsibility for the Academic Relations Office (for a history of this office, see fonds F-203). The focus on academic employment relations continued until 2001, when the incumbent AVPA (Judith Osborne) became Associate Vice-President, Policy, Equity and Legal. This new position moved out of the VPA's portfolio, reported directly to the President, and took with it most policy-related and negotiating responsibilities. With this reorganization, the focus of the AVPA's mandate shifted to academic planning and budgeting processes, institutional analysis, space allocation, and coordination of major and minor capital projects and IT projects. The AVPA's involvement in university IT systems planning has varied over the years. Support for academic and research computing requirements was originally a function of the VPA's Office, but was transferred to the newly established Vice-President, Research / Information Systems in 1985. It returned to the VPA's portfolio in 1990, with the AVPA (Ross Saunders) having lead responsibility, though this shifted back to the VPA in 1994; in 2001 all IT responsibilities were consolidated under the Chief Information Officer (CIO), reporting directly to the VPA. Since its establishment in 1972, the position of AVP Academic has always reported directly to the VPA. The AVPA has had administrative responsibility for a number of different reporting units within the university at various times, include the Academic Advice Centre, the Audio Visual Centre and its successors (Instructional Media Centre, Learning and Instructional Development Centre), the Registrar's Office, the University Library, and the University Archives. See the table attached to this fonds description for a complete list of the units that have belonged to the VPA's portfolio, their distribution between the VPA and the AVPA, and the years of the reporting relationship.
The Senate Policy Committee on Scholarships, Awards and Bursaries (SPCSAB) is a standing committee of Senate, established in 1986 when its predecessor – the Senate Committee on Scholarships, Awards and Bursaries (SCSAB) – was reorganized into three distinct committees to deal separately with policy, undergraduate adjudication, and graduate adjudication. The main functions of SPCSAB are to set terms of reference for all university administered award programs and their adjudication; establish budget requests; integrate award programs with recruiting; and establish university policies relating to student funding from non-university sources.
The Senate Undergraduate Admissions Board (SUAB) was established as a standing committee of Senate in 1970, replacing its predecessor, the Senate Committee on Undergraduate Admissions and Standing. Its functions were to make recommendations relating to policy on undergraduate admissions, readmissions, standing and credit transfer; and to review applications involving special or extenuating circumstances. SUAB was dissolved by Senate effective January 1, 1996, and its functions transferred to the Senate Committee on Undergraduate Studies (SCUS).
The Senate Committee on Undergraduate Studies (SCUS) is a standing committee of Senate. It was established by Senate in 1971 and has been reorganized on several occasions. Through tne 1970s, Senate delegated to SCUS certain responsibilities and authority for approving curriculum and academic program revisions. In 1987, these responsibilities were in turn delegated to the Senate Committee on Academic Planning (SCAP), of which SCUS became a sub-committee. In 2001 Senate restructured its committees, with SCAP becoming the Senate Committee on University Priorities (SCUP) and SCUS restored to a full standing committee reporting directly to Senate. Its main function are to review, make recommendations, and approve academic program and curriculum changes; and recommend to Senate policies relating to grading, examination, standing and continuance, undergraduate admissions, readmissions, and credit transfer, undergraduate course registration and course withdrawal procedures, and the administration of undergraduate student records.
The Senate Committee on University Priorities (SCUP) was originally instituted in 1971 as the Senate Committee on Academic Planning (SCAP). It replaced the Academic Planning Committee (ACP) previously established under the President's Office and was responsible for coordinating and implementing a system of academic planning at the university. Its functions included identifying priorities in the development of new and emerging programs; coordinating academic planning with allocation of resources; operating the system of external reviews; and reviewing and making recommendations for the establishment and disestablishment of academic departments and research units, centres and institutes. In 2001 Senate restructured its committee organization, and SCAP was renamed the Senate Committee on University Priorities (SCUP). It retained its academic planning functions, but took on additional responsibilities for advising the President on university budget matters.
The Senate Undergraduate Awards Adjudication Committee (SUAAC) was established in 1986 when the former Senate Committee on Scholarships, Bursaries and Awards (SCSAB) was replaced by three separate committees with distinct responsibilities for policy, undergraduate adjudication, and graduate adjudication. The main functions of SUAAC are to adjudicate all undergraduate private and university awards; recommend changes or additions to the award programs; interview students in order to prepare recommendations where required for external agencies; confer with scholarship students; and present scholarships at secondary school convocations, as required.
The Senate Committee on Enrolment Management and Planning (SCEMP) is a standing committee of Senate, established in 1989. Its functions are to make recommendations to Senate relating to enrolment targets, monitor the impact of enrolment limitation measures, and develop and recommend policies for managing enrolment.
The Senate Committee to Review Academic Discipline and Student Conduct Policies (SCRAD) was an ad hoc committee established by Senate in May 1993 to review university academic discipline and student conduct policies. SCRAD reported to Senate in 1994. As an outcome of its recommendations, the university adopted a package of policies and procedures relating to student discipline, dissolved the former Senate Committee on Academic Discipline (SCAD), and replaced it with two new bodies, the University Board of Student Discipline (UBSD) and the Senate Committee on Disciplinary Appeals (SCODA).
The Senate Committee on Course Scheduling and Timetabling (SCCS) was an ad hoc committee created by Senate in October 1995 to review the scheduling and timetabling of undergraduate courses and consider whether formal policies and procedures were required. SCCS reported back to Senate in May 1996.
Academic Planning Services was established in September 1990 with the appointment of Alison Watt as the unit's first Director, reporting to the Vice-President, Academic (VPA). Academic Planning Services' main functions were to coordinate academic planning at the senior staff level, provide secretariat services to the Senate Committee on Academic Planning (SCAP), coordinate the process for external reviews of academic departments, oversee use of endowment funds to support academic programs, and maintain the university's policies and procedures manual. In March 1996, Watt became Director, Secretariat Services, moving from the VPA's to the Registrar's portfolio and transferring a number of responsibilities with her. In subsequent years, academic planning support services have been variously organized through the VPA's Office. Kathy Heinrich was appointed Special Assistant to the VPA, Academic Planning in 1996 to assist academic restructuring processes; Heinrich left the university in the summer of 1999. A directorship for Academic Planning Services was re-established from 2000 to 2004 with the appointment of Sue Roppel (2000-2001), then Laurie Summers (2002-2004). In 2004, academic planning was reorganized with the creation of the Academic Planning and Budgeting Office, headed by Glynn Nichols as Director. This unit has a dual reporting relationship to both the VP Academic and the VP Finance and Administration through their respective Associate VPs.
The Academic Planning Committee (APC) was established in 1970 as an advisory committee to the President and successor to the Senate's Long Range Academic Planning Committee. Its main functions were to review and recommend to the President, as Chair of Senate, all new program proposals submitted to it; and develop annually a recommendation to the President concerning academic and action priority listings. It was replaced in 1975 by the Senate Academic Planning Committee (SCAP).
TRIUMF is Canada's national laboratory for particle and nuclear physics, operated as a joint venture by a consortium of universities. Its facilities support both pure and applied research and include the particle accelerator (cyclotron) and the Isotope Separation and ACceleration (ISAC) facility. The idea of building a cyclotron in western Canada was first conceived by Dr. J.R. Richardson on Galiano Island in 1962. Simon Fraser University, the University of British Columbia and the University of Victoria collaborated on a proposal in 1966 for the Tri-University Meson Facility (TRIUMF). The University of Alberta joined the group and TRIUMF was formally established by the four universities in 1968 with funding from the Atomic Energy Control Board (AECB). The early years of TRIUMF were primarily concerned with the planning, design and construction of the facility on the campus of UBC, and on February 9, 1976 it was officially opened by the Prime Minister of Canda, Pierre Trudeau. In the same year the four founding universities signed a Letter of Agreement with the National Research Council of Canada (NRC), to provide on-going core operational funding. The organization was formally constituted as a Joint Venture between the four universities in November 1981. A number of other Canadian universities are affiliated with TRIUMF as Associate Members, while Carleton University and the University of Toronto became Joint Venture members around 2003-2004. Although owned by the consortium, TRIUMF has always made its facilities available to other Canadian and foreign researchers. TRIUMF is governed by a Board of Management which comprises individuals drawn from its Joint Venture and Associate Member universities and which is responsible for policy, budget, and fund-raising. TRIUMF is administered by a Director, assisted by a number of Advisory Committees, whose number and composition has varied over the years. The organization is internally structured into a number of divisions which have also changed over time through periodic reorganizations.
The Academic Relations Office is the planning, policy advising and administration office for faculty, professional librarians and archivists, and academic administrators at SFU. The Office was established in 1988 with the appointment of Sharon Cochran as Director. Its main functions are to coordinate human-resources services for faculty personnel; advise faculty and provide administrative support to the appointment, renewal, tenure, promotion, and salary review processes; and liaise with the SFU Faculty Association. Prior to 1988, a number of these responsibilities had been carried out within the Office of the Vice-President, Academic (VPA) by Alison Watt in her position as the Assistant to the Vice-President (1978-1990). Throughout its history, Academic Relations has always belonged the VPA's reporting portfolio. From its establishment in 1988 until the departure of its first Director in 1996, Academic Relations reported directly to the VPA. Subsequently, the Associate VPA, Judith Osborne, assumed direct responsibility for the unit from 1996 to 2001. A new Director, Sue Roppel, was appointed in 2001 following a reorganization of senior administrative portfolios at the university. This saw the incumbent Associate VPA (Osborne) move to the new post of Associate Vice-President, Policy, Equity and Legal, and the mandate of the Associate VPA redefined, shifting from academic employment relations to academic planning and budgeting.
The Salary Equity Study Committee was established by the Vice-President, Academic in 1988 in response to concern on the part of Academic Women, the SFU Faculty Association, and the university administration about the the possible existence of gender-based salary differentials at SFU. The Committee's mandate was to determine whether gender-associated salary differentials exist among SFU's tenured and tenure-track faculty members, and if differentials exist, to recommend to the Vice-President, Academic a remedy based on the study findings. The Committee reported to the VP Academic in February 1991 with recommendations relating to methodology to determine the appropriate salary of each SFU tenure-track female faculty member relative to her peers, given academic performance; and measures to prevent future salary inequities.
The SFU Childcare Society presently operates eleven programs that are collectively known as the Children's Centre. The Children's Centre is an independent, legally incorporated non-profit society with registered charitable organization status. The Children's Centre provides full and part time care to approximately 240 children, ranging in age from 3 months to 12 years. Each program has its own physical space and is often referred to as a centre. A Board of Directors is composed of parent representatives, university representatives, childcare staff representatives and community representatives. The Executive Director is an ex-officio, non-voting member of the Board, hired through the University (with direction from the Society Board) to be the Coordinator for the Society and to act as a liaison between the Society and the University. Daycare began at SFU in 1968 when a group of parents established the Simon Fraser Co-operative Family in a student lounge. By 1973, the Family Co-op had grown into the SFU Day Care Society with three units in different locations. By 1976, there were five licensed daycare centres all incorporated under the Burnaby Mountain Day Care Society. In 1976 the University provided 1.2 million dollars to fund construction of a childcare complex, the first of its kind in Canada. The University also supported the appointment of a full-time director, Emily Campbell. For funding purposes, the Burnaby Mountain Day Care Society separated into five non-profit societies, which could each apply for grants. The five societies and their nine centres formed a loose federation, The Burnaby Association of University Child Care Societies, to set overall policy, coordinate activities, and exchange information. Centres remained autonomous in financing, staffing, and style of care. In 1981 it became evident that current levels of University funding were in jeopardy. A Task Force was struck by the University to investigate the current organization of childcare on campus. Following recommendations of that Task Force, the five individual daycare societies were reorganized in 1982 into a single non-profit society, The SFU Childcare Society, which continues today. The SFU Childcare Society is funded primarily through parent user fees and Board fund raising efforts. These monies are used for staff salaries and benefits, program related expenses, equipment purchase and upkeep, playgrounds, administrative costs and utilities. A Licensing Agreement with the University provides for repairs and maintenance service for all the major building structures, comprehensive insurance, and the salary and benefits for the Executive Director and secretarial positions.
The Institute of Public Policy Analysis (IPPA) was a proposed institute that Simon Fraser University intended to establish as a forum bringing together individuals from the university, community and government sectors for the examination of Canadian public policy at both federal and provincial levels. The project was never realized. Planning began in 1972 with the goal of commencing operations in September 1974. By early 1973 both Senate and the Board of Governors had approved the establishment of the Institute, and around March of that year the university appointed John Hogarth from the Faculty of Law at York University as the first Director. The Institute was to house both continuing staff funded by SFU as well as visiting fellows and researchers funded by external grants. Each academic year the Institute would focus on a specific problem or theme in public policy, offering symposia, research workshops, seminars and public lectures. By early 1974 it had become apparent that the Institute would be unable to obtain sufficient external funding to begin its operations in the fall. Director Hogarth resigned effective March 31, 1974 and the university dissolved the Institute shortly afterwards.
The Kelowna School of Resource Management (KSRM) was a proposed school that Simon Fraser University intended to establish in British Columbia's Interior, offering an undergraduate degree program based on core courses in natural and social sciences and in techniques of resource management and planning. The project was never realized. Planning began in 1977 as part of SFU's response to the provincial government's Commission on University Programs in Non-Metropolitan Areas (Winegard Commission). The province's degree-program approval authority at that time – the Universities Council of British Columbia (UCBC) – gave approval in principle to SFU's proposal in early 1978. By August the university had appointed John M. Munro (then SFU's Dean of Arts) as the School's first Director, and KSRM began recruiting faculty. The curriculum was designed to provide undergraduate instruction for third- and fourth-year students who had already completed their first two years at community colleges in the province or at other universities. KSRM was to begin operations in September 1979, using facilities on the campus of Okanagan College. In February 1979 UCBC reversed its earlier decision and rejected the proposal, citing several factors: lack of professional infrastructure at SFU; the employability of graduates; the professional qualifications of graduates; the need for a permanent building; and the financial requirement of $1 million annually. SFU contested each point of the rationale but was unable to overturn the decision. All planning activities were discontinued and the School dissolved. Its Director, Professor Munro, returned to SFU's Department of Economics and Commerce; in June 1979 he became SFU's Vice-President, Academic.
In January 1970 the Board of Governors created SFU's third Vice-President position: Vice-President, University and Community Services. By the time Stanley Roberts started in 1971, the position had been renamed Vice-President, Development. Shortly after, the name was changed again to Vice-President, University Services. In 1971 the Vice-President had five primary responsibilities that included improving public relations through community services; improving internal non-academic activities (university student services); increasing student enrollment; ensuring adequate funding of university functions; and maximizing personnel and budget efficiency. In 1972 S.T. (Stephen) Stratton resigned as the Director of the Division of University Services. The position of Director was discontinued and Roberts, as Vice-President, assumed full administrative responsibility for University Services. From 1971 to 1977 he reported directly to the university President. By 1972 University Services had expanded to include Alumni Affairs, the Campus Information Centre, the Centre for Communication and the Arts, Chaplain's Service, Counselling Services, Health Services, Residence and Housing, the International Office, the Reading and Study Centre, the Resources Office, School Liaison, the Student Placement Office, University News Service, and the University Theatre. In 1973 Financial Aid and the Daycare Centre were added to his sphere of responsibility, followed by Athletics and Recreation Services in 1974. From 1972 to 1973 Ian B. Kelsey served as Assistant to the Vice-President, University Services and was followed by William (Bill) Stewart from 1974 to 1977. When Roberts resigned in 1977, the position of Vice-President, University Services was discontinued. Bill Stewart, his former assistant, became the new Director of Student Services (a position Stewart would hold until 1996). In 1981 the title Vice-President, University Development and Extension was resurrected with the appointment of Jack Blaney, but the focus was on expansion of the university, not provision of student services.
Richard Lester was born in Toronto, Ontario in 1928. He came to Vancouver in 1947, eventually attending law school at the University of British Columbia. After being called to the British Columbia Bar in 1953 he practiced in Maple Ridge (then Haney). He served on the school board and was president of the BC School Trustees Association from 1961 to 1963. In 1963 he was appointed to the first Board of Governors for the newly formed Simon Fraser University, a position he held until he became Chairman of the Board in the fall of 1968. He resigned this position in 1971, returning to his law practice. Lester lived in Maple Ridge and then West Vancouver. He married Lois Audrey Jensen in 1952 and has 4 children.
The Department of Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology (P.S.A.) was established by the Board of Governors in 1965 as one of the original Departments in the Faculty of Arts. It was dissolved on 19 February 1974. The Department was originally conceived as an experiment in interdisciplinary, and it was responsible, through its Chair, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs which combined the fields of Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology. In 1965, P.S.A. consisted of seven faculty members and offered courses leading to a B.A. degree. In 1966, the number of courses and programs greatly expanded, to include both M.A. and Ph.D. programs. In 1969, the Archaeology program was removed and placed as a distinct unit under the administration of the Faculty of Arts. It later became a full department. The history of P.S.A. was marked by a prolonged period of dissension between faculty members, the Department, and the University which included a period of trusteeship and a strike by students and faculty in 1969, the suspension of faculty, and the subsequent censure of the University by the Canadian Association of University Teachers in May 1971. In 1974, P.S.A. was split into two successor departments: Political Science, and Sociology and Anthropology. The Department was administered by a Chair and a number of standing committees. The Chair was the chief administrative officer, whose responsibilities included the management of the operational budget; faculty tenure, promotion and salary recommendations; teaching assignments; and representation of the Department to external bodies. The Departmental Assistant was responsible for much of the day-to-day administration and the management of the departmental budget, the scheduling of courses, the provision of liaison with administrative offices, and advising students. The number and composition of departmental committees varied greatly over time. In 1969, there were eleven committees, including Budget; Curriculum; Executive; Faculty/Staff Relations; Graduate Admissions; Graduate Programme; Grievance; Library; Salary; Tenure and Promotions; Teaching Methods and Grades; and Visiting Lecturers. By the next year, there remained only the Executive, Budget, Curriculum, Graduate Studies, and Appointments committees. This structure remained until the dissolution of the Department. Other short-lived committees, such as Majors and Honours, were also formed. P.S.A. also struck ad hoc committees, such as the Chairman's Search Committee, when required.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
Klaus Ekkehard Rieckhoff is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Physics at Simon Fraser University (SFU). He helped shape the department and the university through his active involvement in the governance of SFU, through his contributions to science and his devotion to teaching, as well as his involvement in the larger community. Born in Weimar, Germany, Rieckhoff experienced life under both the Nazi and Communist regimes before escaping from the Soviet-occupied zone in 1947. Shortly after, he left for the western zones where he worked in various factories in Munich until he was accepted at the University of Karlsruhe where he studied mathematics and physics (1947-1949). He was accepted for one of 40 places in physics and mathematics from a pool of 400 applicants after an entrance examination administered to 160 of the applicants. In 1949, he left the university while continuing to work as a clerk in the actuarial department of a life insurance company (1948-1951). In December 1949, he married Marianne Neder with whom he has three children, Bernhard Andreas, Claudia Angela, and Cornelia Andrea. Rieckhoff immigrated to Canada in 1952. Upon his arrival to Vancouver, B.C., he held various jobs as a dock worker (1952), sawmill worker (1953), and television technician (1953-1957) before earning his B.Sc., M.Sc., and Ph.D. at the University of British Columbia. In 1965, Rieckhoff joined SFU as a charter faculty member and immersed himself in its life. He is regarded as a vital force in the Department of Physics, a department he helped to create and nurture. From 1966-1967, he was Acting Dean of Science, and from 1972-1976, he was Associate Dean of Graduate Studies. He has authored and co-authored more than 60 papers in the areas of spectroscopy and chemical physics, earning international recognition for his work. From 1976-1977, he worked at the IBM Research Lab in San Jose, California as Visiting Scientist. In 1987, he was a Visiting Professor at the universities of Puerto Rico (Mayaguez, U.S.A.), Queensland (Brisbane, Australia), and Bayreuth (Germany). Rieckhoff's passion for critical inquiry is reflected in his multiple appointments, participation, and election to a number of faculty, departmental, and university committees. As a founding member of Senate, he supported the inclusion of undergraduate representation. He served on the Senate for 17 years and on the Board of Governors for 11 years, earning him the distinction of being one of the longest-serving members on both bodies. In recognition of his contributions to the governance and administration of SFU, the university named the Senate Chamber in his honour in 1982. Although the space has been renovated, a plaque remains in place. In 1998, SFU awarded him a Doctor of Laws, honoris causa.
Professor John M. Webster is a scientist in the field of nematology. He was a Professor of Biological Sciences at SFU from 1971 to 2001. He remains a Professor Emeritus at SFU. Professor Webster was born in Wakefield, England on 5 May 1936. He married Carolyn Ann McGillivray in 1970 and they have two children, Gordon John and Sandra Jane. He also has 3 grandchildren. Webster became interested in biology through the influence of his high school biology teacher who eventually recommended the University of London (Imperial College) for its biology program. While at Imperial College, he focused on parasitology after attending a lecture by the Professor of Parasitology. Eventually, scholarship funding for a PhD in nematology became available and he took it. Webster received a B.Sc. in Zoology with special honours in Parasitology in 1958 and a Ph.D. DIC (Diploma of the Imperial College) in Plant Nematology from the same institution in 1962. Since then he has also received a Senior University Administrator's Diploma from the University of Western Ontario and a D.Sc. in Zoology-Nematology from the University of London, England. From 1958 to 1961 Webster was an Agricultural Research Scholar at the University of London (Imperial College) and from 1961 to 1966 he was a Scientific Officer at Rothamsted Experimental Station in England, one of the top research stations in Europe at the time. He then moved to Canada where he was a research scientist at the Agriculture Canada Biological Control Research Institute in Belleville, Ontario from 1966-1967. In 1967, he made the move to university life by accepting the position of Associate Professor in the Department of Biological Sciences at the newly-formed SFU. He became a full professor in 1971. During his time at SFU Professor Webster held a number of administrative positions including: Dean of Graduate Studies Pro-Tem, 1970-1971; Chair of Biological Sciences, 1974-1976; Dean of Science 1976-1980; Associate Vice-President, Academic, 1980-1985; Associate Vice-President & Dean of Graduate Studies, 1982-1985; University Research Professor, 1987-1988. In 2001 he became Professor Emeritus. In addition to his research and administrative work at SFU, Webster has also been involved with a number of government related organizations, such as on the executive of the Science Council of Canada, member of the Premiers Advisory Council on Science & Technology, Chair of the Life Sciences Committee of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), member and Chairman of the Board of TRIUMF, member of Council and President of the Western Canadian Universities Marine Biological Society, and the President of the Canadian Academy for the Advancement of Science. Webster has also served on a number of not-for-profit boards, most notably Capilano College, Vancouver Aquarium and Marine Science Centre, (President and Chairman), Tynehead Zoological Society, and the President of the Arts, Sciences and Technology Centre (Science World). He is an honorary member of the Canadian Society of Zoologists and the Society of Nematologists (USA) and a fellow of the European Society of Nematologists, the Institute of Biology (UK), the Linnean Society of London (UK), and the Society of Nematologists (USA). From 2001-2006 he was President and CEO of Welichem BioTech Inc and from 2006 to 2012 he was Chief Scientific Officer. Professor Webster lives in North Vancouver, BC.
Hugh Johnston is professor emeritus of history at Simon Fraser University, where he taught for 37 years. His book Radical Campus: Making Simon Fraser University was published to coincide with the university's 40th anniversary (2005). He joined SFU as a faculty member in 1968 and witnessed firsthand SFU's tumultuous beginnings. At various times in his career, Johnston led the History Department as chair. Johnston grew up in south-western Ontario. He received a B.A. from the University of Toronto and attended the Ontario College of Education. Johnston went on to receive an M.A. from the University of Western Ontario and his PhD. from King's College at the University of London. His teaching and research interests have centered on British and South Asian migration and settlement, eighteenth century exploration of the Pacific Northwest, the history of British Columbia, and higher education in Canada. Johnston is well known as an expert in Sikhism, Sikhs in Canada, and India-China relations. From 1992 to 2001 he also served on the board of the Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute, a bi-national organization promoting scholarly exchange, and in 1995–1996 he was resident director of the institute's office in Delhi. In 2001 he was the institute's president. During his career, Johnston wrote numerous scholarly articles and books. In 1995, with Tara Singh Bains he co-wrote The Four Quarters of the Night: The Life Journey of an Emmigrant Sikh. Other books include The Voyage of the Komagata Maru: The Sikh Challenge to Canada's Colour Bar; British Immigration Policy, 1815-1830: "Shovelling out Paupers"; and the History of Perth County to 1967 (co-authored with W. Stafford Johnston).
When SFU opened in 1965 the Board of Governors and senior academic staff agreed that there were not enough students to form a separate faculty of Graduate Studies. For the first couple of years, each academic department was responsible for the administration of their own graduate students and the development of graduate programs. In 1968 the Senate Committee on Graduate Studies approved the formation of departmental graduate studies committees and the recommendation of a Dean of Graduate Studies. In 1971, the Office of the Dean of Graduate Studies was officially created. Reporting to the Vice-President, Academic, the Dean was given responsibility for graduate studies policy development and graduate student services, including the administration of research and grants for faculty and scholarships for students. In 1994 the Dean's role was combined with that of Vice-President, Research with the graduate studies portfolio reporting to the Vice-President, Academic. In 2000 the Dean of Graduate Studies was made a separate position once again, with the Vice-President, Research taking responsibility for research administration and the Dean of Graduate Studies reporting back again to the Vice-President, Academic and Provost. The Office of the Dean of Graduate Studies ensures that graduate students throughout the university conform to standards approved by the university Senate. The Dean is assisted by an Associate Dean of Graduate Studies who is responsible for matters that involve individual students and individual graduate programs. The Dean retains primary responsibility for policy matters and external relations. The Dean approves supervisory committees, recommends the awarding of degrees, advises on program development and approves new graduate programs. The Dean also administers and provides information about all graduate awards and liaises with national and provincial granting agencies. The Office of the Dean of Graduate Studies maintains all formal graduate student records from the time of application to the awarding of degrees. The Dean's office also administers Special Arrangement students and Post-doctoral Fellows. The Office of the Dean of Graduate Studies organizes a number of events throughout the year including Graduate Scholarships Day, the TA/TM Day, library workshops for graduate students, SFU Graduate Student Certificate Program in University Teaching and Learning, and the SFU Teaching, Learning, and Research Showcase. The Dean of Graduate Studies participates in university administration through membership on senate and various senate committees. The Dean serves as Chair of the Senate Graduate Studies Committee, the Executive Committee of the Senate Graduate Studies Committee, the Assessment Committee for New Graduate Programs, the University Ethics Review Committee, the Senate Graduate Awards Adjudication Committee, and the President's Research Grant Committee. The Dean serves as an ex officio member of Senate, the Senate Committee on Academic Planning, and the Senate Policy Committee for Scholarships, Awards and Bursaries. Over the years, the Dean of Graduate Studies has also served on a series of external boards, including the TRIUMF (Tri-University Meson Facility) Board of Management, the Canadian Association for Graduate Studies, and the Western Canadian Deans of Graduate Studies Committee.
The Vice-President, Legal Affairs is the senior University official responsible for coordinating the legal matters of the University. This officer is also in charge of policy development and interpretation, education and training relating to policies and procedures, and managing the University's employment equity program. The office was previously known as the Office of the Associate Vice-President, Policy, Equity, and Legal (2001-2004) and the Office of the Associate Vice-President, Legal Affairs (2004-2006).
Mary Wilson became a day-care activist when she enrolled as an SFU student in 1970 and tried to find day care for her daughter. She became a Board member of the Burnaby Mountain Day Care Society and served as the paid coordinator of the campus day care facility for several months between 1973 and 1974. She played a key role in mediating between the various independent day care societies and the University to create SFU's present Childcare Centre.
The Faculty of Education was one of the three founding faculties of Simon Fraser University and began operations in September 1965 with the opening of the university. As of this writing (May 2008), it continues as an active faculty with a mandate to engage in research and scholarly inquiry, advance knowledge, and improve the practice of teaching and the learning experience. The Faculty of Education was founded with a broad mandate. In addition to courses relating to education and the teacher-certification Professional Development Program (PDP), the faculty was also responsible for instruction in the fine and performing arts, campus arts programming, campus recreational services, and intercollegiate athletics. This broad scope was reflected in the original structure of the faculty, which was organized into three distinct Centres, each with their own departments. (i) The Physical Development Centre included the departments of Physical Development Studies, Athletics, and Recreational Services. (ii) The Centre for Communications and the Arts was responsible for courses in fine and performing arts and communication studies, and provided a range of non-credit courses and public-events programming. (iii) The Educational Foundations Centre offered courses through the departments of Behavioural Sciences Foundations, Social and Philosophical Foundations, and Professional Foundations. Re-organization occurred in 1970. The Centre for Communications and the Arts moved out of the faculty to become a separate unit for arts programming and non-credit instruction. Communication Studies remained within the faculty, moving to the Educational Foundations Centre. Athletics and Recreational Services merged, separated from the Physical Development Centre and left the faculty. Professional Foundations moved out of the Educational Foundations Centre to become its own Centre. This new arrangement did not last long, and in 1972 the faculty abolished the entire structure based on centres and departments. Physical Development Studies (renamed Kinesiology) and Communication Studies moved out of Education to become academic departments in the newly established Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies. The Faculty of Education became a unitary body with functional divisions for Undergraduate Programs, Graduate Programs and Professional Programs. Professors were now affiliated to the faculty as a whole, able to cross over different program areas. Two further divisions were later added. Field Relations and Teacher In-Service was established in 1994 for professional development programs for BC school teachers and administrators (renamed Field Programs in 1998). International Programs was created in 2000 for coordinating the faculty's many internationalization activities. In both cases, the new divisions did not represent the accrual of a new function as such, but rather provided a more coherent organizational structure for activities and programs that were already underway in the faculty. Administratively, the faculty is headed by the Dean of Education, assisted since 1983 by an Associate Dean. The Dean originally reported directly to the President, but since 1970 has reported to the Vice-President, Academic whose office was established in that year. The number and composition of the faculty's committees has varied over time. The Faculty Meeting has always been the principal governing forum, while the Executive Committee prepares matters for the Faculty Meeting, makes recommendations, and reviews and coordinates the activities of the different program areas. Each program area is headed by a Director, with program committees that review and make recommendations relating to the program as a whole. Since the 1972 re-organization, teaching in the Faculty of Education focuses on provision of Education courses to undergraduate and graduate students; teacher certification through the Professional Development Program (PDP); and professional development activities for in-service teachers. From 1965, the faculty has offered degrees for the Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.), the Master of Arts (Education) (M.A.) and Master of Science (Education) (M.Sc.). The Master of Education (M.Ed.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) were offered from 1983, and the Doctor of Education (D.Ed.) was added in 1998. Teaching is carried out by faculty members, assisted in the PDP program by faculty associates and program coordinators (teachers in the BC school system seconded to assist in teaching and classroom supervision activities). Since the early 1970s, decentralization has allowed PDP students to complete part of their requirements in communities across the provinces, as well providing in-service professional development activities beyond the Lower Mainland region. See fonds Appendix B for a visual representation of the Faculty of Education's organizational structure and how this has changed over time.
The Joint Board of Teacher Education (JBTE) was established by the Province of British Columbia in 1963, in the revision of the University Act, whereby Simon Fraser University and the University of Victoria came into existence alongside the University of British Columbia. The JBTE comprised representatives from each of the universities, their Faculties of Education, the Ministry of Education, the Department of Education, the BC School Trustees Association, and the BC Teachers Federation. Its mandate was to ensure the high quality of teacher instruction in the province by reviewing the curriculum, staffing, budget, and facilities of the Faculties of Education; to make recommendations to the universities and the Ministry; and to initiate changes to teacher training. The JBTE was the successor to the Joint Board of College of Education (1955-1963). It was abolished in the 1983 amendment of the University Act.
A central committee charged with coordinating the activities and programs of the faculty has existed since the Faculty of Education began operations in 1965. It was originally called the Executive Council (1965-1967), then the Coordinating Council (1967-1972), before becoming the Executive Committee in 1972, under which name it continues to operate as of this writing (July 2008). In addition to its coordinating function, the committee reviews programs and activities and makes recommendations to the appropriate faculty bodies, and it prepares the agenda and documentation for the monthly Faculty Meeting. The composition of the committee has varied over time. Prior to 1972, members included the Dean, the Chairs of the Centres, and the Heads of Departments. After 1972 it comprised the Dean (and Associate Dean from 1983) and the Directors of the program areas.
The Faculty Meeting was established in 1965 and continues as of this writing (July 2008) as the main governing forum of the Faculty of Education. It includes all tenure-track faculty and limited-term appointments of over one year as voting members. Faculty Associates, Program Coordinators, and student representatives from each program area are also included, though exact rules of membership have varied over the years. The meeting is chaired by the Dean and typically meets on a monthly basis.
The administrative history of the President's Athletic Awards Committee is not well-established. The committee was created by the President's Office in 1966 with a mandate to adjudicate university athletic awards, establish standards and methods of awards, review recruiting procedures and make recommendations, and liaise with the Senate Committee on Scholarships and Awards. Membership comprised a faculty member from each of the faculties, nominated by the Dean to the President. The committee appears to have ceased activities some time in the 1970s.
The administrative history of the Coordinating Committee on General Education is not well-established. The committee was created by Senate in January 1967 to review the programs offered in the General Education program at the university and make recommendations relating to the extension or revision of the program. Membership consisted of seven faculty members and the (non-voting) Coordinating Secretary. It is not known when the committee was discontinued, but likely before or around 1970, when the Division of General Studies was established.
The administrative history of the Faculty of Education's Salaries and Promotions Committee is not well-established. The committee was active prior to the 1972 reorganization as the faculty body responsible for reviewing departmental salary and promotion recommendations. The committee is the predecessor of the post-1972 Faculty Tenure Committee.
The establishment of the Professional Development Committee was approved at the Faculty of Education Faculty Meeting in November 1968, and the committee was operational by early 1969. It was renamed the Professional Programs Committee with the reorganization of the faculty in 1972 and continues as an activity committee as of this writing (July 2008). Its mandate is to review and make recommendations on all matters relating to the professional courses and programs of the faculty, and with respect to these courses and programs it has the responsibilities of departmental and faculty undergraduate studies committees. The committee's composition has varied over time. Originally membership comprised the Dean plus one faculty member and one student from each of the faculty's various departments. With the restructuring of the faculty in 1972, composition was changed to consist of the Director of Professional Programs, Dean (non-voting), and elected faculty members, coordinators, faculty associates, and students (with exact numbers changing over the years).
Mention of a Standing Committee on Graduate Studies appears in the minutes of the Faculty of Education's Faculty Meeting in December 1965, but its level of activity and continuity with later committees is not clear. At the faculty's April 1969 meeting, it approved the establishment of the Graduate Studies Committee. With the faculty's 1972 reorganization, it was renamed the Graduate Programs Committee, and it continues as an active body as of this writing (July 2008). Its mandate is to fulfill the responsibilities of departmental and faculty graduate studies committees as established by university policy and to review and make recommendations to the faculty on all matters relating to the graduate programs and course of the faculty. Rules for composition of the committee have varied over time. From 1969 to 1972 memberships comprise the Dean, a representative from the Graduate Studies Committee of each department of the faculty, and a graduate student from each department. After 1972, the committee has been composed of the Director of Graduate Programs (Chair), the Dean (non-voting), and elected faculty members (four in total), faculty associates (one), and graduate students (one plus alternate).
The administrative history of the Faculty of Education's Ad Hoc Committee on Reorganization is not well-established. A "Re-organization Committee" appears in 1968 (see minutes of the Faculty Meeting, 30 September 1968). The Ad Hoc Committee, on the other hand, appears to have been active mainly in 1971, with a mandate to canvass and investigate proposals for re-structuring the faculty. Re-organization was finalized in 1972 with the abolition of the faculty's departmental structure based on centres and its replacement by a unitary faculty with functional program-area division.
The establishment of the Undergraduate Studies Committee was approved by the Faculty of Education at its Faculty Meeting of November 1968. Although the records of the committee do not begin until 1972, reference to its activities can be found in the Faculty Meeting minutes before this date. With the re-organization of the faculty in 1972 it became known as the Undergraduate Programs Committee and under this name continues as an active committee as of this writing (July 2008). Its mandate is to consider and make recommendations to the faculty on all matters relating to the undergraduate courses and programs of the faculty; to recommend candidates for the Bachelor of Education degree; and to fulfill the responsibilities of departmental and faculty undergraduate studies committees. The committee's composition has varied over time. Originally membership comprised the Dean plus one faculty member and one student from each of the faculty's various departments. With the restructuring of the faculty in 1972, composition was changed to consist of the Director of Undergraduate Programs, Dean (non-voting), four members elected by and from the faculty, and two student representatives (originally named by the Director on nomination by the Education Student Union, later elected directly by it).
The Faculty of Education's Faculty Tenure Committee was established in 1972 as the successor to the faculty's Salaries and Promotions Committee and continues as of this writing (July 2008) as an active committee of the faculty. Its mandate is to make recommendations on contract renewal, tenure, and promotion in accord with university policies and procedures; and to consult with the Chair with respect to the merit component of annual salary increase recommendations. Six members and the Chair are elected from the faculty, with the Chair normally a tenured faculty member of the rank of Full or Associate Professor.
The administrative history of the Savage Beagles Meeting is not well-established. It was not an official standing committee of the Faculty of Education, but appears to have begun some time after 1972 as a meeting called by the Director of Professional Programs and attended by faculty members involved in PDP. The records of the meeting begin in 1974. It was originally called the Director's Meeting, renamed Management Meeting in 1980, and the Dicord Meeting in 1986. In August 1986 the group went on retreat to Whistler BC, and henceforth the committee was known as the Savage Beagles after the name of a Whistler pub.
The Faculty of Education's Faculty Appointments Committee first appears in the record in 1976, but was likely already established by then, though not earlier than the 1972 faculty re-organization. It continues as of this writing (July 2008) as an active standing committee of the faculty. Its mandate is to review all candidates for appointment, arrange appropriate screening procedures, short-list candidates, and recommend candidates for appointment in accordance with university policies and procedures. Its composition has varied over time but includes the Dean or Associate Dean, Program Directors, and members elected by and from the faculty.
The Faculty of Education's PDP Scholarship and Awards Committee first appears in the record in 1976, but was likely already established by then, though not earlier than the 1972 faculty re-organization. Its mandate is to advise the Director of Professional Programs on scholarships and awards, and to review applications and forward nominations to the appropriate Senate body. It continues as of this writing (July 2008) as an active committee.
The administrative history of the Faculty of Education's Admissions Committee is not well-established. It was originally a sub-committee of the faculty's Professional Programs Committee and was established sometime between 1972 and 1976 to advise the Director of Professional Programs on student admission. In 1978 it became a standing committee of the faculty in its own right with a broadened mandate to consider and make recommendations to the faculty on all matters relating to admission of candidates to the PDP and Bachelor of Education degree programs; execute and monitor faculty and university policies and procedures regarding admission matters; and act as the first review level for admission candidates' appeals in the event of disputes. Membership consisted of the Chair (elected faculty member), the Dean, the Directors of Professional Programs and Undergraduate Programs, and individuals elected from faculty (two), PDP students (one) and faculty associates (one). The committee was dissolved some time between 1989 and 1994 (it appears on the annual "Committees of the Faculty of Education" listing in 1988-89, but not on the next extant one from 1994/95).
The Physical Development Centre (PDC) was established in 1965 as one of the three original centres of the Faculty of Education. It was responsible for managing campus recreational facilities and intramural activities (Recreation Services); organizing SFU's competitive intercollegiate athletics program (Athletics); and offering courses relating to physical education through the university's General Education program. In 1967, the centre added the Department of Physical Development Studies to deliver courses on human growth and movement (kinesiology). Athletics and Recreational Services left the centre (and the Faculty of Education) in 1970 to become an independent administrative unit reporting to the Vice-President, Administration. The Faculty of Education as a whole re-organized in 1972, abolishing the PDC along with the other remaining centres, with Physical Development Studies moving to the newly established Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies as the Department of Kinesiology.
The Department of Behavioural Science Foundations (BSF) was established in 1965 as one of the original units belonging to the Educational Foundations Centre within the Faculty of Education. It delivered courses relating to theories of education, behaviour and cognitive development. With the re-organization of the Faculty of Education in 1972, the department merged with Communication Studies and left the faculty. This new body would become the Department of Communication Studies in the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, established later that year.
The Professional Development Centre has its origins in the Department of Professional Foundations, established in 1965 as one of the original units of the Educational Foundations Centre (EFC) within the Faculty of Education. As the faculty re-organized in 1970, Professional Foundations left the EFC to become a centre in its own right and was renamed the Professional Development Centre. From the outset, the department / centre was responsible for developing and delivering the Professional Development Program (PDP), the teacher training and certification component of the Faculty of Education at SFU. The centre was abolished in the 1972 re-structuring of the faculty, with the Professional Programs division established as its successor.
The Educational Foundations Centre (EFC) was established in 1965 as one of the original centres of the Faculty of Education. The EFC originally contained separate departments for Behaviourial Science Foundations, Social and Philosophical Foundations, and Professional Foundations. In 1970, Communication Studies moved from the Centre for Communications and the Arts (which left the Faculty of Education) to the EFC, while Professional Foundations separated to become its own centre. The EFC was abolished along with the remaining centres when the faculty re-organized again in 1972. In that year, Behavioural Science Foundations and Communication Studies merged and moved to the newly established Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, while the faculty members and curriculum of Social and Philosophical Foundations joined the new unified structure of the Faculty of Education as a whole.
Professional Programs was established in 1972 as one of the three functional program areas that replaced the faculty's previously independent centres and departments during the re-organization of that year. It was the successor to the Professional Foundations Centre, taking over responsibility for the teacher-certification component of the Faculty of Education at SFU, and it continues as an active division of the faculty as of this writing (July 2008). From the opening of the university in 1965, the Faculty of Education has offered the Professional Development Program (PDP). Students could apply for PDP admission after completing a certain number of undergraduate credits at SFU or another university and, upon completion of the program, were recommended for the provincial Teachers' Certificate (granted originally by government's Department of Education, after 1974 by the British Columbia College of Teachers). The PDP program at SFU was initially administered by the Department of Professional Foundations in the Educational Foundations Centre, later (1970) becoming its own centre (Professional Foundations Centre). In 1972 responsibility for the program was carried over to faculty's new Professional Programs division. While PDP requirements and curricula have evolved over the years, its basic structure has consistently been a three-semester program involving two core courses (EDUC 401/402), a semester of supervised classroom experience, and a semester of supplementary course programming. The faculty uses a "differentiated" or "complementary" staffing model which teams tenure-track faculty members with seconded teachers selected from school districts throughout the province. In the early 1970s the faculty initiated a decentralization of the program, enabling students to complete some of their requirements in communities outside of the Lower Mainland. In 2006, the Professional Qualifications Program (PQP) was established, a three-semester program for those wishing to re-certify their teaching credentials.
The Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies (FIDS) was established by the Board of Governors 12 December 1972 to succeed the Division of General Studies. The primary function of the faculty was to encourage the development of multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary programs and provide a stable administrative environment within which these could mature. Upon the dissolution of FIDS 1 September 1985, the responsibility for promoting interdisciplinary studies was inherited by the Faculty of Arts, and the FIDS departments and programs were assumed by the Faculties of Arts, Science, and Applied Sciences. Upon inception of the Faculty, the functions of the previous Dean of General Studies were transferred to the new Dean of Interdisciplinary Studies. As the executive officer of the Faculty and an administrative officer of the University, the Dean of Interdisciplinary Studies was responsible to the Senate for ensuring that the functions of the Faculty were carried out. Specifically, the position was given six major duties: 1) to act as the central budget authority for all departments and programs in the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies; 2) to administer all non-departmental programs of the Faculty; 3) to coordinate curriculum development through the faculty undergraduate and graduate curriculum committees and maintain scholastic uniformity; 4) to be responsible for faculty hiring, discipline, tenure and promotion in conjunction with appropriate departments; 5) to facilitate the research undertaken by Faculty members by ensuring facilities, equipment and support, and; 6) to engage in the ongoing assessment of Faculty performance through performance review, contract renewal, tenure and promotion evaluations. The Dean also acted as chair of Faculty meetings and represented the Faculty to external bodies such as Senate and the Board of Governors. The Faculty consisted administratively of a number of departments and programs. Departmental chairs and program directors reported to the Dean, who in turn reported directly to the Vice-President, Academic. The Dean was solely responsible for overall academic and administrative matters until 1980, when the position of Associate Dean was established. The Associate Dean was made responsible for space allotment, the appointment of sessional staff, the coordination of curriculum development in graduate and undergraduate programs, advice to the Dean on specific matters, and to take the role of Acting Dean when required. The original Faculty departments were Fine and Performing Arts, Kinesiology, and Communication Studies, all of which were formerly units within the Faculty of Education. Fine and Performing Arts had been part of the Centre for Communications and the Arts; Kinesiology was an expansion of Physical Development Studies; and Communication Studies was created by the amalgamation of two former units: Behavioral Science Foundations and the Centre for Communications and the Arts. The original Faculty programs were African/Middle Eastern Studies, Canadian Studies, Computing Science, and Latin American Studies. The Faculty expanded steadily in the number of its departments and programs offered. A program in Criminology was created in 1974, and became a department in the Faculty in 1975. Further program additions included Women's Studies (1976), Natural Resource Management (1979), Management and Systems Science (1980), and Gerontology (1982). When the Faculty was dissolved, it consisted of the Centre for the Arts; Centre for Canadian Studies; the Departments of Communication, Computing Science, Criminology, and Kinesiology; and the following programs: African/Middle Eastern Studies, Gerontology, Latin American Studies, Management and Systems Science, and Women's Studies. Upon dissolution, most of the units became part of the Division of Interdisciplinary Studies in the Faculty of Arts. The exceptions were the Departments of Communication, Computing Science and Kinesiology, which became part of the Faculty of Applied Sciences, and the Management and Systems Science Program, which became part of the Faculty of Science.
The Institute of Fisheries Analysis (IFA) was founded in 1980 by Dr. Parzival Copes, an economist and charter faculty member at Simon Fraser University (SFU), with the support of faculty members who held a common interest in fisheries research. The IFA was established to promote interdisciplinary study and research on fisheries questions among SFU faculty, staff, and students. Topical areas of interest included, but were not limited to, the basic biology, ecology, and population dynamics of exploitable fish stocks; the bio-economic and socio-political framework of fisheries regulation and management; the socio-economic well-being of fishing communities; industrial and commercial developments related to fisheries; and the political economy of the fishing industry. In 2001, the IFA was dissolved and succeeded by the Centre for Coastal Studies. In conjunction with its objective to promote interdisciplinary fisheries studies and research, the IFA sponsored interdisciplinary research seminars in fisheries and encouraged research cooperation among persons from relevant disciplines. The Institute also assisted in securing and administering resources for fisheries research conducted at the University. Although the IFA did not have a formal teaching role, it did encourage and support teaching programs in fisheries analysis by providing background research as well as guidance and academic supervision to students admitted to master’s or doctoral programs in fisheries management under Special Arrangements (i.e., graduate studies programs outside or between existing graduate programs, administered by the Dean of Graduate Studies). The Institute, through using the services and expertise of its members, undertook research contracts external to the University. In order to disseminate research carried out by its members, the IFA published a Discussion Paper Series, which later evolved into the series titled Fisheries Research Papers. When the IFA was first founded, the directorship and administration were combined with that of the Centre for Canadian Studies (CNS) as Copes was the director of CNS at the time. CNS received resources from the Office of the Vice-President, Research and Information Systems to support all of the IFA’s administrative needs. Around 1988, CNS and the IFA were separated, and the IFA was allocated its own physical space where a library and fisheries-related bibliography were developed and maintained for the use of researchers. This separation resulted in a lack of support staff and regular budget for the IFA. In 1989, the IFA entered into a Collaborative Research and Training Agreement with Simon Fraser University and the Asian Fisheries and Social Science Research Network (AFSSRN), which was sponsored by the International Development Research Centre (IDRC). The purpose of this agreement was to provide opportunities at SFU for members of the AFSSRN to obtain master’s and doctoral qualifications in fisheries economics under the supervision of SFU faculty members from the IFA. This was a major source of IFA funding, along with a small amount of funding provided through the Faculty of Arts, and various research grants obtained by individual members of the Institute for various projects. The administration of the IFA consisted of a Governing Committee—initially comprised of the Deans of Arts, Graduate Studies, Interdisciplinary Studies, and Science—a Director, and an Associate Director. The Director and Associate Director were appointed by the Governing Committee in consultation with the regular members of the Institute (i.e., persons holding faculty or research appointments at SFU) and the associate members of the Institute (i.e., students of the University who were directly involved in the work of the Institute). Nominations made to the Governing Committee for the Director and Associate Director were made by majority vote of the members. Applications for membership to the Institution were made to the Director and approved by majority vote of the Institute’s regular members. The Director reported directly to the Dean of Arts. The Institute was dissolved in 2001, and its successor, the Centre for Coastal Studies, expanded the IFA’s original mandate, taking a broader ecosystem approach to coastal resource research and management.
The Canadian Studies program developed from a series of informal meetings among a group of interested faculty members in late 1969 and early 1970. Subsequently representatives from eight departments and the library drafted a proposal for a Canadian Studies program within the Division of General Studies (later the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies). Course offerings began in the fall of 1971. The program was intended to provide a corrective for the lack of Canadian content being offered in the University and to provide a focus for interdisciplinary study. By 1978, the University had appointed a full-time director for the program. The director was advised by a Steering Committee with one member from each department in the University which offered courses acceptable for credit towards the minor in Canadian Studies. The Steering Committee also included representatives from the Faculty of Education, the library, and the Student Society. In 1980, the program was redesignated as the Centre for Canadian Studies, and offered students a major and honours in Canadian Studies. In addition, the Centre developed a French Canadian Studies Certificate Program. Upon the dissolution of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies in 1985, the Centre for Canadian Studies became part of the Division of Interdisciplinary Studies within the Faculty of Arts.
The Department of Economics and Commerce was established by the Board of Governors in February 1964, and began to offer courses within the Faculty of Arts leading to B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees when the University opened in 1965. The Department was responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the fields of economics and commerce. The Department expanded rapidly in size, growing from an initial 5 faculty members in 1965 to 52 in 1979. During this period it had greatly expanded its program offerings, including the important addition of a Master of Business Administration program in 1968. In September 1979 the Department underwent a re-organization, when it was subsumed by the new School of Business Administration and Economics in the Faculty of Arts. The School consisted of two departments: Business Administration and Economics. The School existed only until November 1981, when a separate Faculty of Business Administration was established. The Department of Economics has continued to exist in the Faculty of Arts. The Department was administered by a Chair and departmental committees, whose number and composition changed over time. The Chair was responsible for the overall administration of the Department, and reported to the Dean of Arts. In addition to its departmental committees, the Department adopted in 1969 a Constitution and By-laws for its Graduate Program in Economics. It stated that the Program would have three committees: the Graduate Studies Committee, the Curriculum Committee, and the Admissions Committee.
Peter Martinus Buitenhuis (1925-2004), English professor emeritus at Simon Fraser University (SFU), was a prolific scholarly writer and literary critic. His academic career—which included teaching positions at Yale University, University of Toronto, McGill University, and University of California at Berkeley—saw the production of numerous books, articles, and reviews, including works on Henry James, E.J. Pratt, and Hugh MacLennan. Buitenhuis also conducted research and wrote on various topics pertaining to propaganda and World Wars I and II. Of Dutch ancestry, Buitenhuis was born in Ilford Essex, England on December 8, 1925. He married three times and had seven children. With his first wife, Patricia (nee White), he had three children, Paul, Penelope, and Pym; with his second wife, Elspeth Fisher (nee Cameron), he had two children, Beatrix and Hugo; and with his third wife, Ann Cowan (nee Stephenson), he had two children, Juliana and Adrian. In December 1943, Buitenhuis left his job as a bank clerk and enlisted in the Royal Navy. From 1943-1946, he was commissioned to several different ships, including the H.M.S. Beehive, where he served as a Navigating Officer in Coastal Forces, conducting anti-submarine and minesweeping duties in the English Channel and North Sea (1944-1945). After his time on the Beehive, Buitenhuis spent a short period in the Admiralty. In 1946, he was appointed as a navigational officer on H.M.S. Starling, where he served until his release from the Navy later that year. Buitenhuis received the 1939-45 Star, the France and Germany Star, and the Victory Medal. Buitenhuis left the Navy to attend Jesus College at Oxford University on a veteran’s grant (1946). There he earned a BA and an MA in English language and literature. In Buitenhuis’s last year of studies, a professor from the University of Oklahoma (U of O) recruited him to teach English, thus enticing Buitenhuis to immigrate to the United States. Buitenhuis taught at the U of O until 1951, at which time he left his position in response to an investigation by an Oklahoma legislature committee. The committee was putting pressure on the university’s employees to sign a loyalty oath to the constitution of the United States and to the constitution of Oklahoma State. Buitenhuis, neither interested in staying in Oklahoma nor signing the oath, went on to Yale University to pursue a PhD in American Studies, where he wrote his thesis on Henry James. After completing his degree, Buitenhuis stayed on at Yale’s American Studies Department to teach (1955-1959). In 1959, Buitenhuis left Yale and immigrated to Canada, after receiving an invitation from Northrop Frye—then the chairman of the English Department at Victoria College in the University of Toronto—to teach at the College. He became a Canadian citizen c.1960, while still retaining his British citizenship. While at Victoria College, in 1963, Buitenhuis joined with fellow Americanists from other Canadian universities to form the first American Studies association in Canada, the Canadian Association of American Studies. Buitenhuis worked at the College as an associate professor until 1966, when he took a year to teach at the University of California (Berkley) as a visiting professor. In 1967, Buitenhuis returned to Canada to take a position at McGill University in Montreal. After several years at McGill, in 1975, Buitenhuis accepted the position of Chairman of the Department of English at Simon Fraser University (1975-1981) and moved to Vancouver. Buitenhuis remained at SFU until his retirement in 1992. In that time, he not only taught in the Department of English, but was also the Associate Director in SFU’s Centre for Canadian Studies (1987-1988). He continued to teach literature well after his retirement through SFU’s Continuing Studies Department, and was still teaching until shortly before his death. Buitenhuis passed away on November 28, 2004. Buitenhuis remained an active scholar, book reviewer, and writer throughout his life. Included in his many literature reviews and scholarly articles are several books, including E.J. Pratt and His Works; Five American Moderns: Mary McCarthy, Stephen Crane, J.D. Salinger, Eugene O’Neill, and H.L. Mencken; The Grasping Imagination: The American Writings of Henry James; The Great War of Words: British, American, and Canadian Propaganda and Fiction, 1914-1933; and The House of Seven Gables: Severing Family and Colonial Ties. Buitenhuis also completed a manuscript just weeks before his death titled, Empires of the Mind: British Authors' Roles in World War II. Buitenhuis’s literary and academic career brought him into contact with many well-known authors, including Margaret Atwood, Northrop Frye, Timothy Findley, Thomas Wolfe, and Scott Symons.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
The Faculty of Science is one of the three founding faculties of Simon Fraser University. The Faculty was established in September 1965, as mandated by the Universities Act, 1963. c.52 (RS 1979, c. 419). The four charter departments of the Faculty consisted of Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Mathematics and Statistics, and Physics. As of 2006, the Faculty has grown to eight departments and also includes Earth Sciences, Environmental Sciences, Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, and Statistics and Actuarial Science (the only program of its kind in western North America.) The Dean of Science reports to the Vice-President Academic and Provost. Each department in the Faculty is headed by a Chair and the Dean is assisted by an Associate Dean. The Dean is both the chief officer and chair of faculty meetings and is responsible for ensuring that the various duties and responsibilities of the Faculty are carried out. Each of the departments offers BSc, MSc, and PhD degrees and participates in the university's co-operative education program that allows students to combine relevant work experience with academic studies. The Faculty of Science also offers several courses that can be used by non-science students to fulfill degree requirements. In 2005 the Faculty began offering science programs at SFU's Surrey campus. The Faculty of Science is a research-intensive faculty, traditionally accounting for half the external research support (and funding) brought to SFU. The Faculty has actively supported a high school recruitment policy through high school liaison programs established in the late 1960's and more recently, hiring a Director of Student recruitment. The Faculty of Science also plays a role in university outreach by promoting a general understanding of scientific discoveries and explaining the implications of science for setting social policy. Through the School for Continuing Studies, the faculty sponsors science seminar series that are held in the evenings at Harbour Centre. Graduate and undergraduate students from the faculty annually run summer science camps and maintain the “Science Alive!” and “Let's talk Science” programs. SFU is one of five universities involved in research at TRIUMF, Canada's National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics located at the University of British Columbia. In addition, SFU is one of five universities that form the Western Canadian Universities Marine Biological Society (WCUMBS), a non-profit group that owns and operates the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre, in Bamfield, BC.
Hari Prakash Sharma (1934-2010) was a sociologist and Marxist scholar who came from the United States, politicized by the anti-war movement and inspired by the politically charged atmosphere at Simon Fraser University in 1968. He joined the Department of Political Science, Sociology, and Anthropology in that year and taught until his retirement in 1999 when he was honoured by the university as Professor Emeritus. He was born on November 9, 1934 (although some records indicate January 10, 1934 as his date of birth) at Dadri in Uttar Pradesh, India, the second of eight children born to Kundun Lal Sharma and Moharli Devi Sharma. His father was a railway stationmaster, and the family moved frequently. Sharma earned his BA from Agra University in 1954. After a five-year stint as Lower Division Clerk and Typist for the Government of India in the Central Excise and Customs Department, he earned an MA in Social Work from Delhi University in 1960. He then accepted a post as Lecturer at the Delhi School of Social Work, where he remained for three years. In 1963, Sharma moved to the US to further his education. He received an MS in Social Work from Case Western Reserve University in 1964 and a PhD in Rural Sociology from Cornell University in 1968. He taught briefly at the University of California, Los Angeles before accepting a position at SFU. As a faculty member of SFU, Sharma became a champion of the academic rights of colleagues who faced the threat of dismissal for their support of student-led movements to democratize the university. Notably, he supported fellow colleague and friend Kathleen Gough, a British anthropologist with Marxist leanings who was suspended for her political activities. Gough and Sharma co-edited "Imperialism and Revolution in South Asia," which was published in the Monthly Review, an independent socialist journal, in 1974. His research areas of special interest included political economy and agrarian social structures, particularly in India; social movements, political mobilization, ethnic and cultural identities; race and class; and nation-building among the aboriginal people of British Columbia. He wrote extensively on those topics and provided guest lectures at over 50 universities and scholarly institutions in Asia, Europe, and North America. In the spring of 1967, the Naxalbari peasant uprising inspired him to travel to India and several other Asian countries. Upon his return, he became committed to political activism from an anti-imperialist perspective. During 1971-72, Sharma was a founding member of and contributor to the Georgia Straight Collective, which produced a publication for radical and alternative views. In 1973, he went to Amnesty International in London and the Commission of Jurists in Geneva and made a written representation to the UN Human Rights Commission in an effort to publicize the condition of more than 30,000 political prisoners in Indian jails. In 1974, Sharma and his comrade Gautam Appa of the London School of Economics organized a petition of international scholars to protest the treatment of political prisoners in India, which he handed to the Indian Consulate in Vancouver, BC on August 15 of the same year. On a return trip from India in early 1975, Hari Sharma began to travel across North American campuses giving talks and mobilizing people toward the formation of a patriotic organization of Indians living in North America. This effort contributed to the founding of the Indian People's Association in North America (IPANA) on June 25, 1975, the same day on which Indira Gandhi declared a State of Emergency in India. The opposition to what was identified as a "fascist dictatorship" became the urgent task of IPANA along with the defense of the thousands of political prisoners. IPANA established chapters in several North American cities, with its most active chapters in Montréal, Vancouver, New York, Toronto, and Boston. It had links with patriotic organizations in San Francisco, Chicago, Winnipeg, and Edmonton. In their effort to oppose imperialism and to promote democratic rights and social justice in India, IPANA produced three publications: the quarterly New India Bulletin, which came out of Montréal from 1975; India Now, a monthly that was produced in New York from 1976; and Wangar, a Punjabi paper that was produced from Vancouver every two months from 1977. In addition to its publications, IPANA held numerous public meetings, demonstrations, lectures, films, and cultural programs to highlight the systemic oppression of dalits, peasants, and workers that mocked any concept of democracy and freedom put forth by the existing Government of India. One of IPANA’s first public interventions in North America was to sponsor a speaking tour by Mary Tyler, a British writer who had been held in an Indian prison for several years without any formal charge for alleged revolutionary activities in Bihar. Under Sharma's leadership, IPANA also supported the struggles of minorities and workers in BC. He was a primary force in the founding of the British Columbia Organization to Fight Racism (BCOFR). Through the 1980s, IPANA and BCOFR engaged thousands of people from several communities. Both Sharma and IPANA also helped form the Canadian Farmworkers Union in 1980. In the 1980s, Sharma focused much of his research and writing on the condition of minorities in India, which came to a crisis with the attack on the Golden Temple and the massacre of Sikhs in Delhi in 1984 following the assassination of Indira Gandhi. He defended the human rights of Sikhs and of Muslims who became the primary targets of the Hindutva movements advocating Hindu nationalism. In 1987, Sharma organized a parallel conference on the centralization of state power and the threat to minorities in India to coincide with the Commonwealth Conference in Vancouver. In 1989, Sharma united groups of the South Asian community to form the Komagata Maru Historical Society. The event commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Komagata Maru incident in which Indian immigrants traveling to Canada on a chartered ship were turned away from the shores of Vancouver by racist policies of the government. The society united the community, and as a result of its activities, the government installed a commemorative plaque in Vancouver in 1989. In 2004, during a screening of the film Continuous Journey (a documentary on the episode by the Toronto filmmaker Ali Kazimi), Mayor of Vancouver Larry Campbell sent a scroll to Sharma on behalf of the Komagata Historical Society declaring the week to be dedicated to the memory of Komagata Maru. Following the attack on the Babri Masjid mosque in December 1992, Hari Sharma became the prime mover in the formation of a North American organization dedicated to the defence of minority rights in India, also known as Non-Resident Indians for Secularism and Democracy (NRISAD). This organization united people of Indian origin collectively through educational and cultural activities. One of its significant events in Vancouver included the celebration of the 50th anniversary of India's independence from colonial rule. The event united people across the South Asian community to focus on issues that included the urgency for peace between Pakistan and India. In September 1999, Sharma travelled to Montréal to join the founding of the International South Asia Forum (INSAF), a coalition of individuals and organizations dedicated to the promotion of peace and social justice in South Asia. He became its first President and organized the Second Conference in Vancouver in August 2001. Over time, NRISAD recognized a need to widen the focus of the organization to include the whole of South Asia because its membership in Vancouver comprised people from the entire subcontinent of India and the diaspora in East Africa and other countries. Under Sharma's leadership, NRISAD evolved into the South Asian Network for Secularism and Democracy (SANSAD) in 2000. It pursued the same quest as its predecessors for peace and democracy based secularism, human rights, and social justice. Some activities included condemning the massacre of Muslims in Gujarat in 2002 (for which Sharma was denied a visa to visit India), championing the human rights of Kashmiris, condemning violence against journalists and academics in Bangladesh, supporting the movement for democracy and social justice in Nepal, and defending the human rights of Tamils under the attack of the Sri Lankan state. Throughout the years, Hari Sharma developed close ties and contacts with various political groups and communities. He worked with the First Nations in the Interior of BC, and as co-chair (along with Dr. Ronald Ignace, the elected Chief of the Skeetchestn Band from 1982 to 2003 and between 2007 and 2009), he helped to promote and to defend the merit of the SFU Kamloops First Nations program (then the SCES/SFU Program). In addition to his regular workload at SFU, Sharma taught courses such as Violence and War, Marxist Theory, and Third World issues on different occasions in Kamloops. Although the 16-year partnership between SFU and the Secwepemc Cultural Education Society of the Shuswap Nation (SCES) was dissolved by mutual agreement in 2004, over 400 students graduated from the program. In addition to his academic work and political activism, Hari Sharma was an accomplished literary writer and self-taught photographer. He wrote and published short stories in Hindi. Many of his works also were also translated into Bengali, Punjabi, and English. Vapsi, one of his stories, was made into a Doordarshan (Indian public service broadcaster) film. Sharma attributed his interest in photography to a Japanese camera that had been "gifted" to him as a bribe by an importer while pushing files as a government worker. The camera became something that Sharma frequently took with him on trips to India to capture snippets of everyday life. Over the years, his photographs were published in academic journals and art magazines. His works were also publicly displayed in galleries in North America, Europe, and India. After more than 50 years of political activity, Hari Sharma developed contacts and friendships with many who supported revolutionary movements. He married twice. After a prolonged battle with cancer, Hari Sharma died in his Burnaby home surrounded by his closest comrades on March 16, 2010.
Hari Prakash Sharma (1934-2010) was a sociologist and Marxist scholar who came from the United States, politicized by the anti-war movement and inspired by the politically charged atmosphere at Simon Fraser University in 1968. He joined the Department of Political Science, Sociology, and Anthropology in that year and taught until his retirement in 1999 when he was honoured by the university as Professor Emeritus. He was born on November 9, 1934 (although some records indicate January 10, 1934 as his date of birth) at Dadri in Uttar Pradesh, India, the second of eight children born to Kundun Lal Sharma and Moharli Devi Sharma. His father was a railway stationmaster, and the family moved frequently. Sharma earned his BA from Agra University in 1954. After a five-year stint as Lower Division Clerk and Typist for the Government of India in the Central Excise and Customs Department, he earned an MA in Social Work from Delhi University in 1960. He then accepted a post as Lecturer at the Delhi School of Social Work, where he remained for three years. In 1963, Sharma moved to the US to further his education. He received an MS in Social Work from Case Western Reserve University in 1964 and a PhD in Rural Sociology from Cornell University in 1968. He taught briefly at the University of California, Los Angeles before accepting a position at SFU. As a faculty member of SFU, Sharma became a champion of the academic rights of colleagues who faced the threat of dismissal for their support of student-led movements to democratize the university. Notably, he supported fellow colleague and friend Kathleen Gough, a British anthropologist with Marxist leanings who was suspended for her political activities. Gough and Sharma co-edited "Imperialism and Revolution in South Asia," which was published in the Monthly Review, an independent socialist journal, in 1974. His research areas of special interest included political economy and agrarian social structures, particularly in India; social movements, political mobilization, ethnic and cultural identities; race and class; and nation-building among the aboriginal people of British Columbia. He wrote extensively on those topics and provided guest lectures at over 50 universities and scholarly institutions in Asia, Europe, and North America. In the spring of 1967, the Naxalbari peasant uprising inspired him to travel to India and several other Asian countries. Upon his return, he became committed to political activism from an anti-imperialist perspective. During 1971-72, Sharma was a founding member of and contributor to the Georgia Straight Collective, which produced a publication for radical and alternative views. In 1973, he went to Amnesty International in London and the Commission of Jurists in Geneva and made a written representation to the UN Human Rights Commission in an effort to publicize the condition of more than 30,000 political prisoners in Indian jails. In 1974, Sharma and his comrade Gautam Appa of the London School of Economics organized a petition of international scholars to protest the treatment of political prisoners in India, which he handed to the Indian Consulate in Vancouver, BC on August 15 of the same year. On a return trip from India in early 1975, Hari Sharma began to travel across North American campuses giving talks and mobilizing people toward the formation of a patriotic organization of Indians living in North America. This effort contributed to the founding of the Indian People's Association in North America (IPANA) on June 25, 1975, the same day on which Indira Gandhi declared a State of Emergency in India. The opposition to what was identified as a "fascist dictatorship" became the urgent task of IPANA along with the defense of the thousands of political prisoners. IPANA established chapters in several North American cities, with its most active chapters in Montréal, Vancouver, New York, Toronto, and Boston. It had links with patriotic organizations in San Francisco, Chicago, Winnipeg, and Edmonton. In their effort to oppose imperialism and to promote democratic rights and social justice in India, IPANA produced three publications: the quarterly New India Bulletin, which came out of Montréal from 1975; India Now, a monthly that was produced in New York from 1976; and Wangar, a Punjabi paper that was produced from Vancouver every two months from 1977. In addition to its publications, IPANA held numerous public meetings, demonstrations, lectures, films, and cultural programs to highlight the systemic oppression of dalits, peasants, and workers that mocked any concept of democracy and freedom put forth by the existing Government of India. One of IPANA’s first public interventions in North America was to sponsor a speaking tour by Mary Tyler, a British writer who had been held in an Indian prison for several years without any formal charge for alleged revolutionary activities in Bihar. Under Sharma's leadership, IPANA also supported the struggles of minorities and workers in BC. He was a primary force in the founding of the British Columbia Organization to Fight Racism (BCOFR). Through the 1980s, IPANA and BCOFR engaged thousands of people from several communities. Both Sharma and IPANA also helped form the Canadian Farmworkers Union in 1980. In the 1980s, Sharma focused much of his research and writing on the condition of minorities in India, which came to a crisis with the attack on the Golden Temple and the massacre of Sikhs in Delhi in 1984 following the assassination of Indira Gandhi. He defended the human rights of Sikhs and of Muslims who became the primary targets of the Hindutva movements advocating Hindu nationalism. In 1987, Sharma organized a parallel conference on the centralization of state power and the threat to minorities in India to coincide with the Commonwealth Conference in Vancouver. In 1989, Sharma united groups of the South Asian community to form the Komagata Maru Historical Society. The event commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Komagata Maru incident in which Indian immigrants traveling to Canada on a chartered ship were turned away from the shores of Vancouver by racist policies of the government. The society united the community, and as a result of its activities, the government installed a commemorative plaque in Vancouver in 1989. In 2004, during a screening of the film Continuous Journey (a documentary on the episode by the Toronto filmmaker Ali Kazimi), Mayor of Vancouver Larry Campbell sent a scroll to Sharma on behalf of the Komagata Historical Society declaring the week to be dedicated to the memory of Komagata Maru. Following the attack on the Babri Masjid mosque in December 1992, Hari Sharma became the prime mover in the formation of a North American organization dedicated to the defence of minority rights in India, also known as Non-Resident Indians for Secularism and Democracy (NRISAD). This organization united people of Indian origin collectively through educational and cultural activities. One of its significant events in Vancouver included the celebration of the 50th anniversary of India's independence from colonial rule. The event united people across the South Asian community to focus on issues that included the urgency for peace between Pakistan and India. In September 1999, Sharma travelled to Montréal to join the founding of the International South Asia Forum (INSAF), a coalition of individuals and organizations dedicated to the promotion of peace and social justice in South Asia. He became its first President and organized the Second Conference in Vancouver in August 2001. Over time, NRISAD recognized a need to widen the focus of the organization to include the whole of South Asia because its membership in Vancouver comprised people from the entire subcontinent of India and the diaspora in East Africa and other countries. Under Sharma's leadership, NRISAD evolved into the South Asian Network for Secularism and Democracy (SANSAD) in 2000. It pursued the same quest as its predecessors for peace and democracy based secularism, human rights, and social justice. Some activities included condemning the massacre of Muslims in Gujarat in 2002 (for which Sharma was denied a visa to visit India), championing the human rights of Kashmiris, condemning violence against journalists and academics in Bangladesh, supporting the movement for democracy and social justice in Nepal, and defending the human rights of Tamils under the attack of the Sri Lankan state. Throughout the years, Hari Sharma developed close ties and contacts with various political groups and communities. He worked with the First Nations in the Interior of BC, and as co-chair (along with Dr. Ronald Ignace, the elected Chief of the Skeetchestn Band from 1982 to 2003 and between 2007 and 2009), he helped to promote and to defend the merit of the SFU Kamloops First Nations program (then the SCES/SFU Program). In addition to his regular workload at SFU, Sharma taught courses such as Violence and War, Marxist Theory, and Third World issues on different occasions in Kamloops. Although the 16-year partnership between SFU and the Secwepemc Cultural Education Society of the Shuswap Nation (SCES) was dissolved by mutual agreement in 2004, over 400 students graduated from the program. In addition to his academic work and political activism, Hari Sharma was an accomplished literary writer and self-taught photographer. He wrote and published short stories in Hindi. Many of his works also were also translated into Bengali, Punjabi, and English. Vapsi, one of his stories, was made into a Doordarshan (Indian public service broadcaster) film. Sharma attributed his interest in photography to a Japanese camera that had been "gifted" to him as a bribe by an importer while pushing files as a government worker. The camera became something that Sharma frequently took with him on trips to India to capture snippets of everyday life. Over the years, his photographs were published in academic journals and art magazines. His works were also publicly displayed in galleries in North America, Europe, and India. After more than 50 years of political activity, Hari Sharma developed contacts and friendships with many who supported revolutionary movements. He married twice. After a prolonged battle with cancer, Hari Sharma died in his Burnaby home surrounded by his closest comrades on March 16, 2010.
The British Columbia Organization to Fight Racism (BCOFR) was founded in November 1980, with the core leadership and the majority of its membership from the Indi-Canadian community in Vancouver. Many of the founders were also members of the Indian People's Assocation in North America (IPANA). The organization drew members from different communities and traversed ethnic and class lines. At its peak, BCOFR had close to 1,500 members, and its leadership consisted of a president, executive committee, and task-oriented committees. Some of BCOFR's activities included producing a newsletter and organizing social and educational activities to promote community awareness of racism. In addition, BCOFR petitioned, rallied, and campaigned against discriminatory immigration practices.
On February 26, 1979, after a series of casual meetings, Raj Chouhan, Harinder Mahil, and Charan Gill formed the Farm Workers’ Organizing Committee (FWOC) in the Fraser Valley of British Columbia. They were joined at this first official meeting by Sarwan Sidhu, Pritam Singh, Amarit Pal Mann, and Gurnam Sahota. Sarwan Boal and Judy Cavanagh soon joined the FWOC as organizers. A series of public meetings followed to spread awareness of the new group, address farmworkers’ concerns, and advocate for their rights. In the spring of 1980, at a founding convention, members of the FWOC formally established the Canadian Farmworkers Union (CFU). Chouhan was president, Jawala Singh Grewal was vice-president, Gill was secretary, and Boal was treasurer. Cavanagh was a chief organizer. The motto of the CFU was “Zindabad!” (“Long live!” in Urdu). Areas of concern and action for this new union included farmworkers’ pay, housing, working conditions, and work-related legislation. The CFU advocated for childcare for farmworkers and raised awareness of the racism the predominantly Indo-Canadian workers often faced, and also participated in numerous rights-related events and causes in solidarity with other organizations. The CFU was assisted financially by the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC) from founding until 1991. In 1979 the FWOC began publishing The Farmworker, a Punjabi/English newspaper with the purpose of educating workers about their rights on the job and their right to organize. The CFU continued publishing this paper through the mid-1990s. In the early 1980s the CFU focused on recruiting members and gaining certification at some farms, and also picketed and fought in court to defend farmworkers’ right to unionize and to protect workers from mistreatment by farm owners. In November of 1980, the collective agreement signed by the CFU and Bell Farms was the first ever signed by a union representing farmworkers in Canada. The union was also particularly vocal about the exclusion of farmworkers from various legislation protecting other workers’ rights and safety. In 1983, farmworkers became eligible for Workers’ Compensation Board benefits, but were still mainly exempt from health and safety regulations. In its early years, the CFU tried to organize farmworkers outside the Fraser Valley and Lower Mainland, reaching out to workers in the BC Okanagan and Ontario. It did not succeed in the Okanagan, due to conflict between CFU executives and local organizers, and in Ontario its success lasted only a few years. In addition to its unionization and advocacy work, the CFU responded to its membership’s needs with relevant educational programming. In 1982 the union began running “ESL Crusade” classes, developed specifically for Punjabi-speaking farmworkers and including both everyday and farmwork-specific English lessons. The “preventable homicide” of worker Jarnail Singh Deol by pesticide exposure led to the establishment of the Deol Agricultural Education and Research Society (the Deol Society) in 1983, as an internal branch of CFU created for the purpose of applying separately from the union for funding grants. The Deol Society’s main concern was education of farmworkers on the health risks and safe handling of pesticides, and it also ran ESL programs. In many projects, jurisdiction was shared by the Deol Society and the CFU. The CFU researched a wide variety of subjects related to farmworkers and workers in general, in order to educate its members and spread awareness of many issues, from global struggles for workers’ and women’s rights to immigration and multiculturalism in Canada. CFU executives and members participated in union, labour, and activist groups and committees, and were vocal in numerous letter-writing, fundraising, and awareness campaigns. The union also participated in rallies and protests on many subjects. By the mid-1980s the CFU was nearly bankrupt due to the ongoing difficulty of collecting dues from underpaid seasonal workers. The union briefly considered merging with other similar unions but, convinced of the unique needs of its membership, it was determined to retain its own name. In 1986, Chouhan stepped down, principal organizer Judy Cavanagh and founding member Charan Gill left, and Sarwan Boal became president. Boal was replaced in 1991 by Jawala Singh Grewal. In the 1990s, the provincial New Democratic Party government extended health and safety legislation to farmworkers, solving one of the CFU’s main areas of concern. The Progressive Intercultural Community Services Society (PICS, formerly Progressive Indo-Canadian Community Services Society) and its founder, Charan Gill, took over management of the union and its work. The CFU still exists in name, but is essentially inactive.
The Indian People's Association in North America (IPANA) was founded on June 25, 1975 as a patriotic organization of Indians living in North America. IPANA established chapters throughout North America in an effort to oppose imperialism and to promote democratic rights and social justice in India.
The Non-Resident Indians for Secularism and Democracy (NRISAD) was formed by Hari Sharma following the attack on Bari Masjid in December 1992. The organization united people of Indian origin collectively through educational and cultural activities. One of its significant events in Vancouver included the celebration of the 50th anniversary of India's independence from colonial rule. Over time, NRISAD recognized a need to widen the focus of the organization to include the whole of South Asia because its membership in Vancouver comprised people from the entire subcontinent of India and the diaspora in East Africa and other countries. Under Sharma's leadership, NRISAD evolved into the South Asian Network for Secularism and Democracy based secularism, human rights, and social justice.
The Komagata Maru Historical Society was a coalition of South Asian community-based organizations formed in 1989. The event commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Komagata Maru incident in which Indian immigrants traveling to Canada on a chartered ship were turned away from the shores of Vancouver due to racist policies of the government.
Rainbow Publishers Limited is a publishing house in India founded by a group of intellectuals, activists, and public figures that included Hari Sharma. The venture originated at the Convention Against Communalism and the Threat to Diversity held in Calcutta in 1986. The convention brought together like-minded individuals who were united in their thinking around social, cultural, and ecological justice in India. Their collaboration led to the founding of Rainbow Publishers. A main objective of Rainbow Publishers was to inexpensively make more available works on Marxism and socialism in South Asia. Today, Rainbow Publishers continues to publish and translate works of established and new writers in various languages.
The Department of English was established by the Board of Governors in April 1964, and began to offer courses within the Faculty of Arts at the Bachelor level when the University opened in 1965. The Department's offerings were expanded with the addition in 1966 of a Master's program and in 1974 with the approval of a Ph.D. program. The Department was responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the field of composition and English-language literature. An adjunct to this function was its responsibility to help in the development and instruction in non-departmental programs such as Women's Studies, Fine and Performing Arts, Canadian Studies, and the Humanities minor program. The Department's activities included participation in University and external associations and committees, and the organization of and participation in conferences. Several faculty members were involved in the publication of literary journals. These include West Coast Review, which began in 1965 and later became independent of the Department; Line, edited by Roy Miki and devoted to the University's Contemporary Literature Collection; and Tessera, a feminist journal edited by Kathy Mezei. In 1990, West Coast Review and Line were joined to form West Coast Line. The Department was administered by a chair and a number of standing committees, as laid down in a Department constitution in 1968. In the formalized Department Constitution approved 1 August 1975, the Chair was responsible for the overall administration of the Department, which included "The devising and apportioning of the budget; The assignment of teaching duties, with the advice of the Graduate and Undergraduate Curriculum Committees; Calling and conducting Departmental meetings; Mediating all disputes within the Department; [and] Initiating course grade appeal procedures." The number of Department committees changed greatly over time. In 1965 the Department consisted of five standing committees which had an advisory role: Curriculum (ad hoc), Appointments, Promotions and Salary Increases, Library, and Invited Speakers. There were also loosely organized committees of those teaching each first- and second-year course, usually chaired by the lecturer. By 1968 the number of committees had expanded to ten to include: the Policy Committee; Steering Committee, which was the chief advisory body to the Chair; Honours Committee; Teaching Evaluation Committee; Student Load Committee; Search and Selection Committee; Graduate Admissions Committee; Undergraduate Studies Committee; and West Coast Review, responsible for the publication of the journal. In the Constitution of 1975, it stated that the Department would consist of four elected and two non-elected standing committees. Those elected committees included the Graduate Curriculum Committee, the Undergraduate Curriculum Committee, the Departmental Tenure Committee, and the Appointments Committee. Those appointed committees included the Library and Invited Speakers committees. After 1975, a Composition Committee was also struck.
The Department of History is one of the original Departments of the Faculty of Arts, and began to offer courses leading to a B.A. when the University opened in 1965. The Department's offerings were expanded with the addition in 1966 of M.A. and Ph.D. programs. The Department was responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the field of history. An adjunct to this function was its responsibility to develop and provide instruction in programs offered outside the Department, including the Canadian Studies, Graduate Liberal Studies, Humanities Minor, and Women's Studies Programs. The Department also had institutional links with the Department of Spanish and Latin American Studies and the French Department. It also acted as an advisory body for the History Department of Fraser Valley University College. The Department's activities included participation in university and external associations and committees, the organization of and participation in conferences, and involvement in the publication of International History Review. The Department was administered by a Chair and standing committees. The Chair was the chief academic and administrative officer, responsible for all administrative, fiscal and academic activities of the Department. The number and composition of Department committees changed greatly over time. The Revised Constitution of 1969 listed seven standing committees: Salary, Tenure and Promotion; Appointments; Grievance; Library; Faculty-Student Liaison; Graduate Studies; and Undergraduate Studies. There were also a number of ad hoc committees, including the Chairman's Search Committee, the Goals and Implementation Committee, and the Nominating Committee.
The Office of Vice-President, Finance and Administration was originally established by the Board of Governors on 21 June 1968, under the title Vice-President, Administration. The general administration of the University was originally a function of the President, who by 1966 had delegated this responsibility to a senior administrator. This administrator oversaw a number of administrative units, including the Bursar, Registrar, General Services, Facility Planning, and the Library. In 1968, the Office of Vice-President, Administration was created, and was responsible for finance, physical plant and planning, purchasing, personnel, ancillary services, and athletics and recreation. Each of these units was headed by a director. By 1981, responsibility for finance, including the office of Bursar, was moved to a newly created Executive Director of Finance, which by 1985 was renamed Vice-President, Finance and in 1988, Vice-President, Financial Services. Both the Vice-Presidents Administration and Financial Services reported directly to the President. In 1993, the two separate offices were rejoined to form the Office of Vice-President, Finance and Administration.
The Faculty of Arts was one of the three founding faculties of the University established in September 1965, as required by the Universities Act, 1963. c.52 (RS 1979, c. 419). According to the Act, a faculty has a number of powers and duties, including the responsibility to make rules for its self-governance; provide for student representation in faculty bodies and meetings; determine the courses of instruction offered and who is eligible to provide such instruction; appoint examiners to conduct examinations and determine results; and decide on all applications and memorials by students and others in connection with the Faculty. In addition to these powers, a faculty is the central intermediary body through which funding is disbursed to departments and non-departmental programs, including the provision of facilities, equipment and support. In keeping with the overall approach of the University, the Faculty of Arts has sought from its inception to foster interdisciplinary research and teaching. The Faculty is organized administratively into a Dean of Arts, Associate Dean, and a number of faculty committees, including the committee of the whole. The Dean, as the chief officer and chair of the faculty committee, is responsible for ensuring that the varied duties and responsibilities of the Faculty are carried out. The position of Associate Dean, established in 1966, has been responsible for space allotment, the appointment of sessional staff, the coordination of curriculum development in graduate and undergraduate programs, advice to the Dean on specific matters, and to take the role of Acting Dean when required. The number and composition of faculty standing committees has changed little over time. Those committees which have existed since the inception of the University include Academic Planning, Curriculum, Dean's Advisory, Graduate Studies, and Tenure. The Faculty has also had a number of ad hoc committees, which were numerous during the first developmental years of the Faculty. These included the Departmental Review and Grading committees.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
Gordon Merritt Shrum (1896-1985) was a scientist, teacher, administrator, and the first Chancellor of Simon Fraser University. He was born in Smithville, Ontario in 1896. He entered the University of Toronto in 1913 with the intention of becoming a teacher. He joined the Canadian Officers' Training Corps in 1915 and joined the army the following year. After serving in France and receiving the Military Medal, he returned to finish his university studies. He received his BA in 1919, MA in 1921 and PhD in 1923 in physics. His notable achievements included liquefying helium in 1923 and discovering the origin of the auroral green line in the Northern Lights in 1925. Later that year he left Toronto to become professor of physics at the University of British Columbia. Over the next 36 years, he served that institution as an academic and administrator. During his time at UBC, Shrum became a colonel in the COTC, and received the Order of the British Empire during World War II. He was also appointed a director of the BC Research Council in 1944. In 1958, he served as chairman of a royal commission investigating the BC Power Commission. This led to his appointment as Chair of the BC Energy Board in 1959. In 1961, Shrum had to leave UBC because he had reached the compulsory retirement age of 65. He was immediately appointed head of BC Electric (later BC Hydro) by Premier W. A. C. Bennett. In that capacity he was responsible for the Peace River hydro project. Bennett also selected Shrum to create the new university recommended by the Macdonald Report of 1963. Shrum built Simon Fraser University, as it would be named, in 18 months earning it the title of "the Instant University." Shrum served as SFU's first chancellor until June 1969 and continued to head BC Hydro until 1972. In May 1975 he became director of the Vancouver Museum and Planetarium Association and reorganized the museum-planetarium complex at Vanier Park. Now in his eighties, Shrum was approached by Premier Bill Bennett to take charge of the financially-troubled Robson Square Courthouse project. He successfully completed the project and was next asked to develop a trade and convention centre for Vancouver. He stepped down from this project when the federal government took over construction. Gordon Shrum died at the age of 89 in 1985.
The Board of Governors is the University's primary governing body. As established by the Universities Act of 1963, the Board originally consisted of eleven members: the Chancellor, President, three members elected by the Senate, and six others who were appointed by the Lieutenant-Governor in Council. The Universities Act of 1974 increased the number of board members to fifteen (its current number). The Board now includes eight government appointees (two of whom are nominated by the Alumni Association), two elected faculty members, two elected students, 1 elected staff member, and the Chancellor and the President who serve as ex officio members. The Board of Governors is responsible for the management, administration and control of property, revenue, business and affairs of the University. With the approval of the University Senate, the Board establishes procedures for the selection of candidates for President, deans, Librarian, Registrar, and other senior academic administrators as the Board may designate. The Board also appoints these officials as well as professors and other members of the teaching staff. The Board has the power to fix salaries and define the duties and tenure of office for its appointees, but members of the teaching staff may not be appointed, promoted or removed except upon the recommendation of the President. The Board receives from the President and analyses or adopts with or without modifications the budgets for operating and capital expenditures; fixes the fees to be paid by students; administers funds, grants, fees, endowments and other assets; and, with the approval of Senate, has the power to determine the number of students that may be accommodated at the University. Chairs of the Board: Gordon M. Shrum (1963-1968) Richard E. Lester (1968-1971) Kenneth P. Caple (1972) Paul T. Cote (1972-1976, 1981-1982) Ray Parkinson (1976-1981) Fred H. Moonen (1982-1987, 1990-1994) Donald J. Hudson (1988-1990) Yvonne Cocke (1994-1996) Tazeen Nathoo (1996-1997) David Bond (1997-1998) Jack Kowarsky (1998-1999) Evaleen Jaager Roy (1999-2002) Brandt C. Louie (2002-2005)
Ronald “Ron” James Baker was the first faculty member hired by President Patrick McTaggart-Cowan for the new Simon Fraser University (SFU) in 1964. Baker served as the university's Director of Academic Planning and as the first head of the English Department. He remained at SFU until 1969, when he was appointed to be the first president of the new University of Prince Edward Island. Baker was born in London, England, on August 24, 1924, to James “Jim” Herbert Walter and Ethel Frances Baker (nee Miller). He served with the Royal Air Force (1943-1947), during which time he trained in Manitoba. After the war, in 1947, he immigrated to Canada. Baker married Helen “Jo” Gillespie Elder [ca. 1947]; they would have 5 children (Sharon Ann, Lynn Frances, Ian James, Sarah Jane, and Katherine Jean). In 1975, he married Frances Marilyn Frazer (1932-2010), with whom he had one son, Ralph Edward “Ted.” Baker graduated from the University of British Columbia (UBC) with a Bachelor of Arts in 1951 and a Master of Arts in 1953, both in English. He went on to do graduate work in the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London (1954-1956). Baker had lectured in English during his undergraduate degree at UBC, and returned to the University to become an associate professor in 1962. While at UBC, Baker was involved in the production of John B. Macdonald’s report, Higher Education in British Columbia and a Plan for the Future (1962), which led directly to the development of a second university (SFU) in the Lower Mainland. In 1964, Baker became the first faculty member hired by President Patrick McTaggart-Cowan for the newly created SFU. Baker served as the University's Director of Academic Planning and as the first head of the English Department. He remained at SFU until 1969, when he was appointed to be the first president of the new University of Prince Edward Island (1969-1978). He continued to teach there as a professor until 1991, when he retired. Baker served on numerous councils and committees throughout his career, including the Canadian Association of University Teachers (1954-1969), the Royal Society of Arts (Fellow, 1971-1990), the Royal Commonwealth Society (1964-1966), the National Defence Strategic Studies Committee (Chairman, 1986-1998), the Canadian Executive Service Organization (CESO) (Volunteer Advisor to First Nations Groups, 1988-2004), and the Canadian Citizen Court (Presiding Officer, 1996-2004). Baker was made an Officer of the Order of Canada (1978), and received numerous awards and honours, including the Queen’s Silver Jubilee Medal (1977), a Canada 125 Medal (1992), and the Queen’s Golden Jubilee Medal (2002). He also received honourary law degrees from the University of New Brunswick (1970), Mount Allison University (1977), University of Prince Edward Island (1989), and Simon Fraser University (1990).
Dr. Douglas Cole was a Professor of History at Simon Fraser University from 1966 to 1997. His teaching and research interests centred on Canada: specifically, on the history of Canadian art, anthropology, and Indian-White relations. He was an active member of the university community, serving on a number of committees and as president of the Faculty Association from 1986 to 1988. Douglas Lowell Cole was born in Mason City, Washington on December 9, 1938. In 1960, he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in history from Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington. Cole went on to complete his masters degree at George Washington University in Washington, DC in 1962 and then completed his Ph.D. at the University of Washington in 1968. Both his post-graduate degree theses focused on topics relevant to Canadian history. His MA thesis, "The United States and Canadian Diplomatic Independence, 1918-1926," and his Ph.D. thesis "John S. Ewart and the Canadian Nation," prepared him to accept a position teaching topics in Canadian history at Simon Fraser University. During his career, Dr. Cole wrote numerous scholarly articles and books. In 1977, he co-wrote From Desolation to Splendour, a history of the changing perceptions of BC's landscape. Other books include Phillips in Print: The Selected Writing of Walter Phillips on Canadian Nature and Art (co-authored with M. Tippett), Captured Heritage, and An Iron Hand Upon the People (co-authored with Ira Chaikin). He has also contributed to BC Studies, Journal of Canadian Studies, Canadian Review of Nationalism, Canadian Historical Review, and others. Dr. Cole was also the recipient of a number of awards, citations and honours. He was a finalist for the Harold Adams Innis Prize for best work in English in Social Sciences for An Iron Hand Upon the People. He was also awarded a Regional History Award from the Canadian Historical Association in 1987, the Molson Research Prize in 1986, and the Eaton Award for the best British Columbia book in 1978. Dr. Cole was also granted a University Research Professorship in 1990. Dr. Cole passed away August 18, 1997.
Thelma Finlayson is a distinguished entomologist who served as a professor in the Department of Biological Sciences at Simon Fraser University from 1967 until her retirement in 1979. Her research interests have centered on the classification of immature stages of insect parasites of forest and agricultural pests. Since 1979 she has been Professor Emerita and continues to be actively involved with the university, contributing time, counsel and private funds. The university established the Thelma Finlayson Society in 1989 in honour of her many contributions to SFU.
The Teaching Support Staff Union is the representative bargaining agent for Teaching Assistants, Tutor Markers, Language Instructors and Sessional Instructors at Simon Fraser University. The union negotiates terms and conditions of work, rates of pay, benefits and grievance procedures in a Collective Agreement with the University. In 1971 graduate students organized the Graduate Student Union, an association that worked to improve teaching and research conditions. The GSU was inactive after 1974 but the discussion it had initiated regarding unionization continued until 1976 when twelve graduate students held a union organizational meeting in September of that year. They proposed affiliation with the Association of University and College Employees (AUCE) rather than the Canadian Union of Public Employees or the University of Toronto based Graduate Assistants' Association. The Teaching Support Staff Union, as it would be named, favored AUCE because of its relative smallness, democratic structure, local autonomy, strong representation of women's employment rights, and the established presence at SFU, since 1974, of AUCE Local 2 for office, clerical and technical staff. Accordingly, the TSSU received its charter as AUCE Local 6 on September 10, 1976. The TSSU took additional steps to establish themselves as a legal entity under the British Columbia Labour Code. By April 1978 the TSSU had signed over 50% of the bargaining unit into the union. It then applied to the Labour Relations Board for a certification vote to make the TSSU the representative body for the bargaining unit. Before the vote could be held, however, the LRB conducted a hearing to define the membership of the bargaining unit, which had been disputed by the University. Following an LRB ruling in TSSU's favor, the certification vote was finally held in November 1978. The vote was positive despite an effort by some Language Assistants to have the LRB exclude them from the bargaining unit and the vote. The LRB certified the union on December 13, 1978. In January 1979 the union began bargaining with the University for a first collective agreement. The TSSU and the University administration negotiated each article individually and resolved impasses through mediation. During negotiations, the TSSU successfully complained to the LRB that the University had violated Section 51 of the Labour Code by withholding an annual pay increase. The first Collective Agreement was signed by both sides on July 1, 1980, and has been renegotiated from time to time. TSSU supported its sister local, AUCE 2, during the latter's strike in 1979. In 1983 and 1984, TSSU joined other campus unions in Operation Solidarity, a province-wide organization opposed to Premier Bennett's Social Credit restraint legislation. TSSU remained as the last independent local of AUCE until the latter's dissolution in the early 1990s. Still functioning as an independent union, TSSU operates under a constitution and bylaws as a membership-driven organization. Union policy, bargaining positions, and the election of union officers and salaried officers are decided by the membership through meetings, mail-in ballots, and referenda. Departmental stewards serve as immediate contacts for TSSU members. In addition, a number of standing committees conduct on-going business and help direct the executive and general membership. Ad hoc committees have functioned from time to time.
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) was active from 1971 to 1974, campaigning on behalf of all SFU graduate students for reasonable fees, income support, office facilities, better representation, and a Graduate Appeals Board; for teaching assistants in particular, it also sought a more advantageous payment system and a training program. It was successful with fees and training as well as some individual grievances, but by early 1974 its limited achievements persuaded the executive to canvas support for a formal, legal unionization of teaching assistants. These efforts came to fruition in 1976 with the establishment of the Teaching Support Staff Union (TSSU).
The Society of Canadian Women in Science and Technology (SCWIST) was founded in Vancouver BC in 1981 by six women: Mary Vickers, Hilda Ching, Abby Schwarz, Mary Jo Duncan, Diana Herbst, and Maggie Benston. SCWIST is a volunteer non-profit organization incorporated under the BC Societies Act; in 1984 it was registered as a charity under the federal Income Tax Act. It continues as an active organization. SCWIST's mandate is to promote, support and empower women in the fields of science and technology. To this end, the Society works (i) to promote equal opportunities for women in scientific, technological and engineering careers; (ii) to improve social attitudes on the stereotyping of careers in science and educate the public about careers in science and technology; and (iii) to assist educators by providing current information on careers and career training, science and scientific policies. It realizes these goals through the organization of conferences and networking events, delivery of public educational outreach programs, production of resource material (videos, publications and handbooks), liaison with other organizations, and participation in granting, advocacy and advisory bodies. From the six founders in 1981, membership in SCWIST grew rapidly to approximately 160 by 1984; subsequently, membership increased more slowly, reaching approximately 200 by 1993. The Annual General Meeting – held each spring and open to all members of the Society – votes on major decisions and elects the Executive Board of Directors. The Board is headed by the Society's president and meets regularly in Vancouver, while much of the on-going work of SCWIST is carried out by a number of standing and ad hoc committees appointed by the Board. Since 1992 SCWIST has maintained a permanent Resource Centre in Vancouver. Major milestones in SCWIST history include the production of the Registry of Skilled Women, BC and Yukon (1983); the organization of the first National Conference on Women in Science and Technology (1983); the development of the following educational programs: Girls in Science (1984), Ms. Infinity (1990), and Project Tomorrow (1993); the establishment of the SCWIST scholarship (1986)--renamed the Maggie Benston Scholarship in 1991; the opening of a Resource Centre (1992); and the launching of the SCWIST web site (1997).
The Office of Chancellor of S.F.U. was formally established with the appointment of the first officer of the University and first Chancellor, Dr. Gordon M. Shrum, on 9 May 1963. The functions of the Chancellor were laid out in the Universities Act (SBC 1963 c. 52, ss. 11-14; RSBC 1979, c. 419, ss. 11-17), which stated that the chief role of the Chancellor was to confer degrees. The Chancellor was elected by the members of Convocation, and presided as chair of this body. The Chancellor also sat as a member of other bodies, including the Board of Governors and the Senate. The incumbent to this position also represented the University at various events and took on speaking engagements in keeping with the largely ceremonial nature of the office.
The SFU Women's Centre was established in 1974 and continues as of this writing (2009) as an active organization. Funded by the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS) as a constituency group, the Women's Centre provides programming, space and volunteer opportunities to self-identified women on campus, and resource information and peer support to women and men. The Women's Centre began in 1974 when a group of women students revived the SFU Women's Caucus (originally established in 1968) and obtained SFSS club status. It opened the Women's Centre that year in a small room in the Rotunda. In 1980 the Centre moved to the Academic Quadrangle, then in 1996 back to the Rotunda (TC3013), doubling its physical space to approximately 1400 square feet. The Centre's organizational structure has evolved over time. The Women's Centre Steering Committee developed out of the Women's Caucus, but by 1977 it had merged with the Women's Centre Collective. The Collective consists of women students who volunteer a set number of hours per week to staff the Centre and remains the decision-making body of the Centre. In 1979-80, the Women's Centre Board was created to formulate policy, promote the Centre, liaise with the university community, locate funding sources, and work closely with the Collective, which continued to be responsible for day-to-day operations and activities. The Board included representatives from SFSS, the Women's Centre Collective, the Women's Studies Department, the Women's Studies Student Union, and female administrative and clerical university staff. By the mid-1980s the Board was meeting irregularly; it was discontinued in 1990, its functions transferred to a newly created part-time paid position of Coordinator, funded by and reporting to the SFSS. The Women's Centre provides a number of services, including a women-only lounge open 24 hours a day, a resource office, peer support, library, kitchen facilities, study carrels, couches and a quiet play area for children in the lounge. Men can access the Centre's library materials, peer support, and referral information. Since its establishment, the Centre has undertaken numerous activities and projects. In cooperation with other campus groups, the Centre promoted the creation of a Women's Studies Department, the institution of a university harassment policy and office, the improvement of campus childcare facilities, and the organization of International Women's Day events, December 6 vigils, and women's self-defense classes.
The SFU Women's Centre Steering Committee developed out of the revived SFU Women's Caucus in 1974 with the opening of the SFU Women's Centre. By 1977 the Committee had merged into the Women's Centre Collective, the decision-making body of the Centre.
The Women's Centre Collective was established by 1977, having developed out of its predecessors, the Women's Caucus and the Women's Centre Steering Committee, which opened the SFU Women's Centre in 1974. The Collective has remained the core decision-making body of the organization and is responsible for the day-to-day operations and activities of the Centre. Since 1990, the Collective has been assisted by a paid part-time Coordinator, a position funded by and reporting to the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS). The Collective consists of women students who volunteer a set number of hours per week to staff the Centre. The Collective meets regularly, with the positions of chair and minute-recorder rotating weekly to different Collective members.
The Women's Centre Board was established in the 1979-1980 re-organization of the SFU Women's Centre. The Board was created to formulate policy, liaise with the university community, locate funding sources, and work closely with the Women's Centre Collective which was responsible for the Centre's day-to-day operations and activities. The Board consists of representatives of the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS), the Women's Centre Collective, the Women's Studies Department, the Women's Studies Student Union, and female administrative and clerical university staff. By the mid-1980s, the Board was meeting irregularly. In 1990, it ceased operations and its functions were transferred to a newly created paid part-time position (Women's Centre Coordinator) funded by and reporting to the SFSS.
The British Columbia Federation of Women (BCFW) was founded in 1974 as an umbrella group of women's organizations. Its objective was to bring about women's liberation through fundamental social change, providing a provincial network of support, information- and resource-sharing, and coordinated action. Groups joined as affiliate members and were organized into regional units; federation-wide matters were overseen by the Coordinating Collective, several standing committees (Finance, Communications and Convention), and various ad hoc committees established to address specific issues and projects. At the Annual General Convention delegates from each of the regions elected committee members and voted on policy resolutions. The BCFW disbanded in 1989.
The Faculty of Business Administration has its origin in the Department of Economics and Commerce that was established in February 1964 by the Board of Governors. The Department was responsible for promoting research and the development and delivery of economics and commerce programs. In 1968 the Department of Economics and Commerce began offering a Master of Business Administration program (one of the oldest in Canada). In September 1979 the Department underwent a reorganization and was subsumed by the new School of Business Administration and Economics in the Faculty of Arts. The School consisted of the Department of Business Administration and the Department of Economics. Each school had their own chair, faculty and support staff. In November 1981 the School was dissolved into two separate entities. The Department of Economics remained as part of the Faculty of Arts while the Department of Business Administration was restructured as the Faculty of Business Administration, reporting to the Vice-President, Academic. Later, the Faculty established a Dean's External Advisory Board comprised of industry professionals who provide expertise, guidance, and direction in supporting relevant education and research focused on the changing needs of business and the economy. The Faculty of Business Administration offers undergraduate, graduate (MBA), and Ph.D. programs in cooperation with various faculties. Curriculum concentrations include accounting, finance, international business, marketing, management information systems, management and organizational studies, policy analysis, and technology and operations management. The structure of undergraduate program allows students to combine academic studies with cooperative and intern work opportunities, and student exchange agreements are in place with business schools throughout Europe, Asia, and South America. The Faculty also offers non-credit programs at the director, executive and management levels. The undergraduate business program is offered at both the Burnaby and Surrey campuses, while the Segal Graduate School of Business - located in downtown Vancouver - officially opened in May 2006 as the site of the Faculty's MBA and graduate programs. The Faculty of Business Administration is also home to a number of different research institutes and centres that enable faculty to be involved in a range of research activities. In 1990 the W.J. VanDusen B.C. Business Studies Institute was established and funds research on issues relevant to B.C. industry and government and supports an executive-in-residence program and special public lectures. In 2000 the Time Business Centre opened to support research, teaching, and innovation in technology and management partnerships between Simon Fraser university and technology based businesses. In 2005 the CMA Centre for Strategic Change and Performance Management and the CIBC Centre for Corporate Governance and Risk Management opened. As of 2006 corporate support is also being sought for additional research centres including the Centre for Technology and Innovation, the Centre for Building Sustainable Enterprises, and the Centre for Global Asset and Wealth Management. The Faculty of Business Administration has achieved international accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) and, as of 2006, is in the process of acquiring European Quality Improvement System (EFMD Equis) accreditation.
Working Women Unite was formed to create links between working women and the women's movement. The group focused on issues of women and work, and sought to create a relationship with trade unions that would further the position of women in the work force. Specifically, Working Women Unite sought to encourage the formation of women's committees within local unions, discuss strategies on how to organize in a non-union job, articulate feminist demands for working women to take to their unions when negotiating new contracts, and to recognize the value of all women's work regardless of whether it was paid or unpaid. The group also held conferences, workshops, and seminars on issues such as unpaid work, immigrant female workers, women in unions, women working in the home, equal pay for equal work, and the effects of video display terminals in the workplace. Working Women Unite emerged from the British Columbia Federation of Women (BCFW) during its convention in 1977. During this convention the lack of representation for working women within the BCFW was addressed by a group of women, primarily members of the Service, Office, and Retail Workers Union of Canada (SORWUC), who met and formulated resolutions that were passed at the convention. It was not until 1978 that the group gained momentum with a broader base of support. Women from unions such as the British Columbia Government Employees Union (BCGEU), Canadian Union of Postal Workers (CUPW), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), SORWUC, Letter Carriers Union of Canada (LCUC), and Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE), along with non-unionized women, and women in the home, became involved with the group. Structurally, Working Women Unite remained within the BCFW, a federation of women's groups in British Columbia working toward liberation of women through fundamental social change.
Robert F. Harrison is one of the key contributors to the architecture of Simon Fraser University. His firm was responsible for designing and building the WAC Bennett library according to design specifications outlined by Erickson and Massey (the architects responsible for the overall design of the university). Harrison's firm also designed and built the Academic Services building, and made later alterations to it and to other buildings on campus. Robert Harrison was born in Vancouver in 1925. He became a registered architect in 1954, and became the Registrar of the Architectural Institute of British Columbia in 1961. Later, Harrison was made Chair of the Institute's Examining Board (circa 1964). In 1963 Harrison submitted an entry to the contest to design the new university that would be built on top of Burnaby Mountain. His design finished 4th place. According to the contest parameters, the top five winners would each be given a contract to build a section of the campus according to the winner's overall design. Harrison took Erickson and Massey's basic outline for the library, and expanded it to reflect his own ideas. After the first phase of building, Harrison designed a new administration building in keeping with the architectural character of the university. He also made alterations to the Academic Quadrangle, designed later additions to the library, and made alterations to other buildings at Simon Fraser University.
W. Randle Iredale is one of the contributors to the architecture of Simon Fraser University. He and his partner, William R. Rhone, were responsible for designing and building the Science Complex according to design specifications outlined by Erickson and Massey (the architects responsible for the overall design of the university). Rhone and Iredale built the Science Complex in three phases based on preliminary drawings by Erickson and Massey, but added their own ideas and innovations to the building. Iredale was born in Calgary, Alberta in 1929. In 1955 he received a degree in architecture from the University of British Columbia, and went to work for McCarter and Nairne until Iredale was registered in 1957. He had his own practice from 1957 to 1959, and then formed a partnership with William R. Rhone. In 1963 Rhone and Iredale submitted an entry to the contest to design the new university that would be built on top of Burnaby Mountain. Their design finished in second place. According to the contest parameters, the top five winners would each be given a contract to build a section of the campus according to the winner's overall design. Originally, Rhone and Iredale chose the Academic Quadrangle, but changed their minds and picked the Science Complex, which Chancellor Gordon Shrum had assured them would be expanded on a regular basis. The Science Complex was built in three phases between 1964 and 1971: Phase I was substantially completed by August 1, 1965, Phase II was completed September 7, 1966 and Phase III was completed in 1971. Rhone and Iredale also designed and built the student pub, circa 1970.
Zoltan S. Kiss is one of the contributors to the architecture of Simon Fraser University. He was responsible for designing and building the Academic Quadrangle according to design specifications outlined by Erickson and Massey, the architects responsible for the overall design of the university. Kiss built the Academic Quadrangle in two phases, starting the first phase in 1964 and finishing the second phase in 1967. Zoltan S. Kiss was born in Menfocsanak, Hungary in 1924. He studied at the Technical University of Hungary in Budapest during the war, and then went to Denmark to continue his studies. He later moved to Canada and attended the University of British Columbia where he completed a degree in architecture in 1951. Kiss worked for Thompson Berwick Pratt from 1953 to 1962. In 1963 Kiss submitted an entry to the contest to design the new university that would be built on top of Burnaby Mountain. His design finished in third place. According to contest parameters, the top five winners would each be given a contract to build a section of the campus according to the winner's overall design. Kiss chose the Academic Quadrangle, and incorporated his own ideas and innovations with Erickson and Massey's concept. Kiss, upon winning third place in the competition, started his own practice. His other contributions to the architecture of Simon Fraser University include the President's house, student residences, and the pub.
The position of Director of Academic Planning (also referred to as the Academic Planner) was created by President McTaggart-Cowan in 1963 in order to help plan, organize, and formulate policies on the academic activities of the University. Duties of the director included providing assistance to the President, the Senate, and the Board of Governors in making decisions as to the format of the academic year to be adopted by SFU (e.g., a semester system versus a term year system); the organization of University faculties (including making decisions as to which faculties were to be included in the University); the planning of University academic priorities in relation to programs offered by other universities in the community; the setting of admissions policies; the establishment of student study formats (such as sizes of lectures and tutorials, and grading standards); the formulation of policies regarding academic staff; and the formulation of expansion plans for the University. The Academic Planner reported to the Vice-President, Academic, until the position of Academic Planner was eliminated in 1974. On November 14, 1963, the University hired its first Director of Academic Planning, Ronald James Baker, who assumed his duties on January 1, 1964. On December 10 of that year he also became the head of SFU's English department. He served in these positions until 1969, when he left SFU to become President of the University of Prince Edward Island. At that time, John Chase took over duties as Academic Planner. Chase left the position in 1974 to become Director of Institutional Studies (now Analytical Studies) for SFU.
The Department of Archaeology was originally established in 1965 as a program area within the Department of Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology (P.S.A.). In 1969, the Department was removed from P.S.A. to become an independent unit within the Faculty of Arts. In 1971, it became a full Department. The Department is responsible, through its Chair, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the field of Archaeology. The Department is involved in interdisciplinary programs both within the University and with external bodies, including the Institute for Quaternary Research (IQR) and Continuing Studies and Distance Education programs. The Department is organized administratively into a Chair, Departmental Assistant, and a number of standing committees. The Chair is the chief administrative officer, whose responsibilities include the management of the operational budget; faculty tenure, promotion and salary recommendations; teaching assignments, and representation of the Department to external bodies, including the Faculty, Senate and Board of Governors. The Chair reports directly to the Dean of Arts. The Departmental Assistant is responsible for much of the day-to-day administration and the management of the departmental budget, the scheduling of courses, the provision of liaison with administrative offices, and advising students. The Department also comprises the Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, and the Radiocarbon Laboratory. The Museum Curator and Laboratory Manager reports directly to the Chair of the Department, who is the Director of each of these units and is therefore responsible for fiscal, administrative, and academic matters pertaining to them. The number and composition of departmental committees varied greatly over time. Long-standing committees include Appointments, Graduate Studies, Undergraduate Curriculum, and Tenure. There is also departmental representation on faculty and university committees, including the Faculty of Arts Curriculum committee and the University's Articulation committee. The Department also struck ad hoc committees, such as the Chairman's Search Committee, when required.
Preparations for a University Library began in 1964 with the hiring of Donald Baird as University Librarian. The Burnaby campus was still under construction so the Library was set up in Vancouver at the BC Tel Building on Wylie Street under the Cambie Street Bridge. Baird began by obtaining copies of library book lists developed by new state universities in California and they served as the basis for SFU's collection. By the fall of 1965, the Library had 42 employees (12 of whom were librarians) who had catalogued and prepared 13,000 volumes for the new Library. When the Library opened in September 1965 it served as a multi-purpose building with tenants that included administrative departments along with the Registrar's Office and the Office of the President. The first phase of the Library had 5 floors - the subject divisions were decentralized by floors and each floor had its own specialized subject information staff. The earliest organization of the Library included a Processing Division and three Collections Divisions - Humanities, Social Sciences, and Sciences. By 1966 the Processing Division grew to five sections: Searching, Acquisitions, Cataloguing, Serials, and Government Publications and the Collections Division increased to four sections: Bibliographic Services, the Social Science Collection, the Humanities Collection, and the Science Collection. Two Assistant University Librarians were hired to oversee the Processing Division and the Collections Division and they reported to the University Librarian, who in turn, reported directly to the President until 1970. The Library also promoted an emphasis on automation that resulted in the formation of the (Information) Systems Division. In 1966, the University's Audio-Visual Services began in the Library. The 1970s were a time of administrative and operational growth for the Library. During this time (1970-1979), the University Librarian reported to the Vice-President, Academic. By 1970 there were four Assistant Librarians, each heading a division – Processing, Collections, Information Systems, and the Audio Visual Centre. In late 1970 an ad hoc committee met to examine the concept of Special Collections and Archives that had been steadily growing as part of the Library's holdings. The Archives, established in 1968, functioned within the Special Collections Division of the Library. Various members of the library staff carried out archival duties. By the end of 1971 the university's administrative offices had moved out of the Library and the Library took on the operating responsibility for the University Bookstore. In 1973 the Audio Visual Centre moved out of the Library and in 1974, the Information Systems Division was replaced by the Planning and Budgeting Division. By 1978, the University Archives had become a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. That same year Baird retired as University Librarian and became University Archivist, a position he would hold until his retirement in 1990. Theodore (Ted) Dobb, previously serving as Deputy Librarian, was appointed the new University Librarian. From 1979 until 1985, the University Librarian reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic. In 1982 the Library was renamed the W.A.C. Bennett Library in recognition of the strong role that Bennett, former Premier of B.C., had in the creation of SFU. In 1985, the Library added a Reference Division and the Collections Division was renamed the Collections Management Office. From 1985 to 1990, Dobb reported to the Vice-President, Research and Information Systems. In 1990, the Librarian was again reporting directly to the Vice-President, Academic until 1994. That year, Paul Baldwin was appointed Associate Librarian, a position he held until 2002. By 1991, the Library had grown to ten Divisions: Reference, Monographs, Collections Management, Serials, Loans, Systems, Support Services, Building, Belzberg Library, and the Bookstore. The heads of these divisions, as well as an Associate Librarian and Library Secretary reported to the University Librarian. In 1994, the Librarian began reporting directly to the renamed Vice-President, Research. In 1998 Lynn Copeland replaced Ted Dobb as the new University Librarian. In 2005, Copeland was reappointed as University Librarian and Dean of Library Services.
Donald Baird, SFU's University Librarian, was one of the driving forces behind the formation of the Tri Universities Library (TRIUL) consortium between SFU, the University of British Columbia and the University of Victoria. It informally grew to include all publicly funded libraries in the province. Under the auspices of TRIUL, libraries in B.C. came together to cooperate in the establishment of the British Columbia Union Catalogue (BCUC) and promote other cost saving initiatives for library processing and cataloguing divisions.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
Institutional Research and Planning compiles, analyzes, and reports on information regarding Simon Fraser University, such as enrollment and attrition, faculty salaries, course grades, instructional activities, facilities, and other matters. The office also analyzes phenomena of interest to university administration, faculty, and students, such as employment demand and various economic circumstances. The office also produces a yearly Fact Book, containing information on various aspects of SFU activities. Until 1974, statistics and other data were collected by the Academic Planner, the Bursar, and the Registrar. In that year the position of Academic Planner was eliminated and the incumbent, John Chase, was named the first Director of Institutional Studies. In 1975, the name of the office was changed from Institutional Studies to Analytical Studies. In 1981, the Director's position was renamed Executive Assistant to the President/Director (Analytical Studies). By 1984, the name of the position was changed back to Director of Analytical Studies, and the position was then filled by Dr. Walter Wattamaniuk. In 2007 the name of the office was changed to Institutional Research and Planning. From 1974 to 1984, the office reported directly to the President. By 1986, the office began reporting to the Vice-President, Academic.
The Office of University Advancement is responsible for fund raising initiatives to support the university's teaching, research, and service objectives. Organized fund raising activities began at SFU in 1966, when the Resources Office was established. This office was responsible for following up pledges to the Three Universities Capital Fund, which had been established in 1963. The Resources Office was also responsible for establishing and developing new, permanent fund raising programs. Originally, the Resources Office reported directly to the University President. In 1971, the office of Vice-President, Development (later renamed Vice-President, University Services) was created, which then took on responsibility for the Resources Office. In 1977, the position of Vice-President, University Services was eliminated, and the Resources Office again reported directly to the President. In 1982 the Resources Office was renamed Development Office and reported to the newly-created Vice-President, University Development and Extension. In 1988, the Director of Development began reporting to the Vice-President, Harbour Centre. In 2000 the office was renamed University Advancement. The Office of University Advancement has close ties with the SFU Alumni Association, which was founded by SFU graduates in 1969, and which provides programs and services to assist SFU and its graduates. The Association is a registered nonprofit society governed by an elected board of volunteers. The Alumni Relations Office provides administrative support for all Association activities. It also publishes the Alumni Journal, maintains alumni records, and serves as the main point of contact for alumni on the SFU campus. From 1971 to 1972, this office reported to the Director of Resources. From 1973 to 1975, the office reported directly to the Vice-President, University Services, but still maintained close ties to the Resources Office. From 1977 to 1984, the office was again made a responsibility of the Director of Resources (also referred to as the Director of Development). By 1986, the Alumni Relations Office reported directly to the Vice-President, University Development and Extension, but was still linked to the Development Office. In 1988, the Director of Alumni Relations began reporting to the Vice-President, Harbour Centre.
W.A.C. (William Andrew Cecil) Bennett (1900-1979), also known as Cecil or Cece, was a businessman and politician. He was the Premier of British Columbia from 1952-1972. The youngest of five children, Bennett was born on September 6, 1900 in Hastings, Albert County, New Brunswick to parents Andrew Havelock Bennett and Emma Burns Bennett. He was raised Presbyterian, and maintained a strong affiliation with the church throughout his life. In 1901, the family moved to Hampton, New Brunswick, where Bennett received his early education. In 1915, the family moved to Saint John, where Bennett attended high school. While in school, Bennett worked part time for Robertson, Foster, and Smith’s, a local hardware firm. In grade 9, Bennett left school to work full time at the hardware store, working in most of the store’s departments. At the age of 18, Bennett moved to Edmonton, Alberta, where he worked for Marshall Wells, a large wholesale hardware firm (1919). He was quickly promoted up the ranks, eventually becoming assistant sales manager. While in Edmonton, Bennett took correspondence courses in such subjects as accounting, business management, business law, economics, and commerce. On February 19, 1927, Bennett, in partnership with Joe Renaud, purchased a hardware and furniture store in Westlock, Alberta. In 1928, they opened a second store in nearby Clyde, Alberta. On July 11, 1927, Bennett married Annie “May” Elizabeth May Richards. Bennett and May had three children, Mary “Anita” (1928), Russell “R.J.” James (1929), and William “Bill” Richards (1932). Bennett sold his share of the Westlock and Clyde stores to Renaud in 1930 and moved his family to Kelowna, British Columbia, where he bought Leckie Hardware. On January 15, 1932, he opened McEwan & Bennett Hardware in Vernon, BC. That same year, he also helped established Domestic Wine By-Products Ltd., now known as Calona Vineyards, with partners Pasquale Capozzi and Giuseppe Ghezzi. Bennett was elected President of the Kelowna Board of Trade in 1937, and served until 1939. In 1937, he also ran, unsuccessfully, for nomination as South Okanagan candidate for the provincial Conservative Party. In 1941 he ran again, and was elected Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) for South Okanagan on October 21. Bennett was also a member of the Post-War Rehabilitation Council (1942-1946). Bennett was active in local charities, including fundraising efforts for the Salvation Army’s Red Shield Home Front Appeal and as President of the Kelowna branch of the Red Cross Society. In 1946, Bennett ran for leadership of the provincial Conservative Party, but was defeated by Herbert Anscomb. Bennett maintained his seat in South Okanagan until May 13, 1948, when he resigned to run as a federal Conservative candidate in the riding of Yale. He was defeated in the May 31 federal election, but was re-elected MLA for South Okanagan the following month. In 1950 he ran again for leadership of the provincial Conservative Party, but was defeated again by Anscomb. During this time, Bennett was involved in two additional political endeavours: trying to create a Coalition Party in BC, and also attempting to reform the election system with the Transferable Voting system, in which voters could rank candidates into their first, second, third, and fourth choices. On March 14, 1951, Bennett crossed the floor of the House to become an Independent Member. Later that year, he joined BC’s Social Credit League. He was re-elected in his riding as a Social Credit MLA on June 12, 1952, an election in which the Social Credit League of BC won a minority government. Bennett was then elected leader of the Social Credit League on July 15, and sworn in as Premier of British Columbia on August 1. This provincial election featured the Transferable Voting system which Bennett had championed. Later that year, Bennett was also made Freeman of the City of Kelowna (December 9, 1952). On June 9, 1953, the Social Credit government was re-elected with a majority. The following year, Bennett was made Minister of Finance in conjunction with his position as Premier. In 1956, the Social Credit government was re-elected, and in 1959, Bennett and the government announced that British Columbia was free of debt. The Social Credit government stayed in power, with Bennett at its helm, until 1972. Bennett’s government oversaw numerous infrastructure projects including road and bridge development and the expansion of the Pacific Great Eastern Railway (now British Columbia Railway Company), 1956-1958; establishment of what would become Canada’s largest ferry fleet, the British Columbia Toll Authority Ferry System (now BC Ferries), 1958; formation of B.C. Hydro and Power Authority, 1962; creation of the Bank of British Columbia, 1966 (later acquired by the Hong Kong Bank of Canada); and construction of two large-scale hydroelectric dams on the Peace and Columbia Rivers (W.A.C. Bennett and Duncan dams), 1967. Bennett also oversaw the development of post-secondary education institutions in BC, including the establishment of British Columbia Institute of Technology (1962), University of Victoria (1963), and Simon Fraser University (1965). He was awarded an honourary Doctorate of Laws at the opening ceremonies of Simon Fraser University on September 9, 1965. SFU also named its library after Bennett in 1982. On September 15, 1972, the Social Credit government was defeated by Dave Barrett’s provincial New Democratic Party. Bennett, who had been the longest-serving premier in BC history, was re-elected in his riding, and became the leader of the Opposition. On June 5, 1973, he resigned as South Okanagan’s MLA; his son, William “Bill” R. Bennett, won the riding in a by-election on September 7. Bennett retired as leader of the Social Credit party on November 15, and Bill was elected leader of the party on November 24. In 1975, the Social Credit party was re-elected with a majority, making Bill Bennett premier. In 1976, W.A.C. Bennett was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. He died in Kelowna on February 23, 1979.
David J. Mitchell is an author, historian, public policy analyst, former Member of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia, and Vice President, Chief Development Officer of Simon Fraser University. He is the author of W.A.C. Bennett and the Rise of British Columbia. Born in Montreal in 1954, David J. Mitchell completed a Bachelor of Arts degree in History and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in 1975 and a Master of Arts degree in Canadian History, also at Simon Fraser University, in 1976. In addition, he has completed the Parliamentary Internship Program with the British Columbia Legislature in 1978, and attended the Banff School of Advanced Management in 1988. As of 1999, he is a Doctoral candidate in the Department of History at Simon Fraser University. David Mitchell's diverse career path has included senior positions in both the public and private sectors. He has served as Deputy Clerk of the Saskatchewan Legislature, and as an Archivist and Editor at the Provincial Archives of British Columbia. In addition, he has held executive positions within the BC resource industries. From 1991 to 1996, David Mitchell served as an independent Member of the Legislative Assembly for West Vancouver – Garibaldi. David Mitchell is an award-winning writer whose books are well known to British Columbians. He is the author of W.A.C. Bennett and the Rise of British Columbia (1983), considered by many to be the definitive text on W.A.C. Bennett. Bennett, the former premier of British Columbia whose Social Credit government held power between the years of 1952 and 1972, granted Mitchell a number of exclusive interviews between 1976 and 1979, forming the foundation for the subsequent book. David Mitchell is also the author of All Aboard! The Canadian Rockies by Train (1996) and Succession: The Political Reshaping of British Columbia (1987). He has also contributed various articles on public affairs and business to a number of journals, publications and newspapers including the Financial Post, The Globe and Mail, The Vancouver Sun, and Business in Vancouver. In addition, he serves as a frequent commentator on television and radio and has hosted a number of radio and television programs.
The Association of Canadian Publishers (ACP) has its origins in the 'Emergency Committee of Canadian Publishers', formed in Toronto in November 1970 to protest against the sale of Ryerson Press to an American-owned company. In the following months the group worked under the name of the 'interim Council of Canadian Publishers' while the permanent association was being organized. During this time a brief was presented to the federal government discussing the problems facing the Canadian book publishing industry. A founding meeting on February 19th and 20th, 1971 brought together the charter members of the new association (Appendix A). At the first general meeting, held in late April 1971, the name 'Independent Publishers Association' (IPA) was adopted and an executive was elected (Appendix B). The constitution outlined that the first objective of the IPA was "to work for the maintenance of strong competitive book publishing houses owned and controlled in Canada" and Active membership was limited to Canadian firms which had published a minimum of 5 original Canadian titles. Associate membership was available to those that supported the IPA's objectives but did not meet the titles' criteria. The Executive in accordance with policies laid down by the general membership governed the Association on a day-to-day basis. Three committees were created at the first general meeting: Government Relations, Educational Publishing and Co-operative Promotion (Appendix C). The IPA obtained funding from the Canada Council and the Ontario Arts Council. It operated through the offices of the Book Society and House of Anansi until acquiring its own office in Toronto in 1972. The Association hired its first Executive Director, Paul Audley, in January 1974, to work with 3 staff members. By 1974 the IPA had 40 Active members and 32 Associate members. In addition to the issue of foreign ownership, some of the particular concerns of IPA members during this period were a lack of awareness of Canadian titles amongst the general public; the shortage of government funding; American dominance of the mass-market paperback and educational publishing fields; the disadvantages faced by small publishers in matching the sales force, warehousing and fulfillment operations of the large foreign subsidiaries; and an alarming increase in the price of paper. Researching these problems and designing co-operative strategies to overcome them was the focus of much of the IPA staff and executive's time and effort. A federal government policy on book publishing was announced in early 1972 and the IPA participated in instituting two of the new programs. The Association for the Export of Canadian Books (AECB), funded by the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce, sent Canadian representatives and books to foreign book fairs and established promotional agencies, known as Books Canada, in New York, London and Paris. The Book Purchase Program involved the purchase of Canadian titles by the Canada Council for distribution to Canadian consulates and libraries around the world. In later years the book kits were sent to small Canadian libraries. The IPA administered the warehousing and shipping of the selected titles. Canadabooks, established by the IPA in 1974, grew out of the Canadian Educational Resources Project. It was a co-operative marketing organization providing promotional services to members who paid a commission on their reported sales to educational markets. The same year Canadian Basic Books evolved out of a trial project called Backlist. The program aimed to increase the stock of proven Canadian past sellers in bookstores. The Canadian Book Information Centre, earlier known as the Promotion and Information Centre, assumed responsibility for the ambitious display and book promotion activities of the IPA. Each of these programs was open to all Canadian-owned publishers, regardless of their membership in the IPA. The Canadian Publishers Project Co-ordinating Committee, which included non-IPA publishers, oversaw their development and funding while a project manager was responsible for the operation of each. Beginning in 1974 with the formation of the BC Publishers Group, regional and special interest publishers began to organize to pursue common goals. The Literary Press Group was established in February 1975 with affiliate status and administrative assistance of the IPA. The Music Publishers Group formed in 1974. The Alberta Publishers and Atlantic Publishers Associations were created in 1975 and 1976. Dissatisfied with government response to their concerns, IPA members had pursued for some time the formation of an umbrella organization to accommodate all the associations concerned with the book trade in Canada. The Book and Periodical Development Council, founded in January 1975, joined together the IPA, Canadian Periodical Publishers Association, Canadian Booksellers Association, Canadian Library Association, Periodical Distributors of Canada and the Writers Union in order to present a united front in lobbying the federal government, and to provide a structure for developing common policies in the industry. Paul Audley served as the BPDC Acting Director while Arden Ford became Assistant Director of the IPA. In early 1976 a number of major firms which had maintained membership in both the IPA and the Canadian Book Publishers Council (CBPC) withdrew from the CBPC. Wishing to assert a new identity as the major trade organization of Canadian-owned firms, the IPA changed its name to the Association of Canadian Publishers, incorporated as a no-share capital corporation and altered the Association's objectives to encourage firstly the "writing, publishing, distribution and promotion of books written by Canadian authors." The ACP placed increased emphasis on promoting Canadian books abroad and began a series of professional development seminars for members. It was perceived that the rapid growth of the IPA had resulted in an unwieldy structure and at the 1976 annual meeting, a new structure was adopted with three additional vice-presidents to oversee the various committees and projects. Another restructuring occurred in 1978 and the ACP Council returned to the format of an executive supplemented by committee chairs. Paul Audley left the ACP in 1977 and was replaced by Arden Ford as Administrative Director while Patsy Aldana filled the role of Executive Director. In 1980 Phyllis Yaffe became Executive Director and Jane Springer replaced Libby Oughton as Associate Director. By the spring of 1980 the ACP had 70 Active members and 48 Associate members.
The Halpern Family fonds consists of the personal archives of five members of the Halpern family: Simon (1865-1939) and Rosalie (1875-1951) Halpern; their daughter Fanny Halpern (1899-1952), a psychiatrist; their son George Halpern (1902-1989), a businessman and philanthropist; and his wife Ida Halpern (1910-1987), a noted ethnomusicologist. Simon Halpern was born on June 6, 1865. He was a Surgeon-General in the Austrian Army. He died in 1939. Simon’s wife Rosalie Halpern (nee Salkind) was born on November 19, 1875, in Kremenczuk, Russia. She died in Shanghai, China, on June 26, 1951. Fanny Gisela Halpern was born August 1, 1899 in Krakow, Poland. After graduating in medicine from the University of Vienna in 1924, she worked in various clinics in that city. Her interest in neurology and psychiatry led her to study with Professor Wagner-Jauregg, who had received the Nobel Prize for developing the malarial treatment of syphilis. Fanny was invited to China in November 1933 to teach at the Medical College of China in Shanghai. She later taught at Shanghai’s St. John's University and Women's Christian Medical College. In 1935 she organized China's first modern psychiatric hospital, Shanghai Mercy Hospital for Nervous Diseases. She became the hospital's medical director, while at the same time serving as a consultant to several other medical institutions. Fanny founded the first Committee on Psychiatry in China. She also established a Committee on Mental Hygiene in Shanghai, which became the Mental Hygiene Association of that city. The group consisted mainly of volunteers who worked in mental hygiene and child guidance clinics. She wrote many articles on psychiatry and neurology and presented papers at scientific meetings in Europe and China. For much of her time in Shanghai, Fanny shared her life and home with her mother, Rosalie, who joined her there after Simon's death in 1939. Shortly after her mother passed away in 1951, Fanny moved to Vancouver to be near her brother, George, and his wife, Ida. Fanny Halpern died on June 26, 1952. George Robert Halpern was born in Krakow, Poland on May 11, 1902. In 1936 he married Ida (nee Ruhdörfer), who was born on July 17, 1910, in Vienna, Austria, to Heinrich and Sabine Ruhdörfer. George Halpern had a Ph.D. in chemistry, and as a research chemist, developed a number of pharmaceutical and cosmetic preparations that were manufactured in Vienna and later in Italy (1936-1937) after he established a factory there. Halpern's medicines, with such names as "gelamon" and "jonojod," were advertised for the treatment of various illnesses including asthma, rheumatism, atherosclerosis, and syphilis. Halpern's cosmetic products included skin creams and hair tonics. Once Ida received her doctorate in music in July 1938, she and George decided to leave Vienna. That October they moved to Shanghai to be with George's sister Fanny. While there, Ida taught music history at the University of Shanghai. George considered opening a pharmaceutical factory in Shanghai as well, but instead in 1939 he and Ida left for Canada. Arriving in Vancouver in August, the Halperns were initially placed under a deportation order. They succeeded in gaining landed immigrant status through the intervention of R.D. Murray, manager of the Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and China located in Shanghai. Murray offered financial guarantees regarding Halpern's proposed business enterprises. George hoped to manufacture cosmetics in Vancouver, but was discouraged by George Cunningham, the owner of the city's largest drugstore chain, who told George that his stores only dealt with nationally advertised products. Instead, after inventing chocolate-covered cod-liver oil pills for children, George established his own company, Dr. G. Halpern (Vienna) Laboratories, which manufactured the product for a short time (ca. 1939-1941). In May 1941 George joined the Canadian Fishing Company as a research chemist. His role was to develop products, such as vitamin oils and poultry feed, that could be manufactured from fish. Halpern also joined a professional association, the Chemical Institute of Canada, and became chairman of its Vancouver section. In 1953, the Canadian Fishing Company’s management curtailed its research activities, and Halpern had to seek other employment. In 1954, he opened his own business, G.R. Chemicals, Ltd., which manufactured "Ply-O-Seal" plastic patching compounds for the plywood industry. In 1969, George sold the assets of G.R. Chemicals to the H.B. Fuller Company (Canada) Ltd. He then formed a new company, G.R. Chemicals (1969), Ltd., an investment business which owned some property and whose principal income came from interest and rent. This business existed until 1986. Ida taught music lessons in the Halperns’ home and also lectured in music appreciation and later in ethnomusicology at UBC. In 1947 she began recording the music of First Nations peoples of the Pacific Northwest, being one of the first to study the subject. In 1948 she helped found, and was first president of, the Friends of Chamber Music in Vancouver. Ida wrote numerous articles and a few books on First Nations music, and also published some sound recordings. Both George and Ida Halpern were noted benefactors to two of British Columbia's universities, the University of Victoria, and Simon Fraser University (SFU). They were convocation founders of SFU in 1965, and their financial support enabled the construction of the George and Ida Halpern Centre at that institution. George was present at the Halpern Centre's official opening on May 24, 1989. As well, the Halperns donated several important paintings to SFU. Ida was awarded an honourary doctorate from SFU in 1978, and was made a Member of the Order of Canada in the same year. She continued to lecture, and to consult on First Nations music for films and other productions. In 1986, the University of Victoria also awarded her an honourary doctorate. Ida died in Vancouver on February 7, 1987. During his later years, George played a broad role in community activities. He served as President of Brock House, a community centre for senior citizens, which he helped to establish, in 1974, in a local heritage building. He and Ida both served on its board of directors for a number of years. He was also elected a member of the Dunbar-West Point Grey-Southlands Community Resources Board in 1973. The Board promoted the general well being of seniors in the area through such projects as the seniors' housing complex at Fourth Avenue and Wallace Street. George Halpern died in Vancouver on November 28, 1989.
The East Enders Society was a private social service group which worked to aid women in Vancouver's East Side neighbourhoods from 1965 to 1993. The group was initiated by Mrs. May Gutteridge, a social worker at St. James Anglican Church in the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver. In 1964, at the request of Anglican Bishop Godfrey Gower, she extended her work to include assisting native women in the courts. Through this work she saw a need for a women's hostel in Vancouver's East End. The East Enders Society was then established to provide this hostel and other services. The Society was incorporated March 24, 1965, with early members including Mrs. M. Gutteridge, Mrs. M. White, Mrs. S. Ainsworth, Miss P. Dale, Mrs. K. Arens, Mrs. M. Beckett, Miss D. Oikawa. To raise funds for the Society, a "Dollar Club" was formed, in which members contributed one dollar each month towards the Society. The East Enders were also assisted by Mary Southin (a lawyer who provided free legal advice), the United Church Women, the Anglican Church Women's Auxiliary, the Soroptomists, the Fresco Club, and various Lions Clubs. A donation of $10,000 was also received from two anonymous women from the United Church, which went toward the purchase of a rooming house at 883 East Hastings. The rooming house was refurbished and opened as a hostel in May 1965, with Mrs. Margaret White hired as matron to live at the hostel full-time. The hostel provided temporary shelter for a number of women in the Downtown Eastside. Often, women charged with drunkenness and vagrancy would be given suspended sentences, on the condition that they go to the East Enders hostel. The Society also received a monthly grant from the provincial government to hire a social worker to assist women arriving at the hostel. This hostel (sometimes referred to as the Lodge) operated for five years, then moved to 1656 East 4th Avenue, when the Hastings Street building was demolished as part of an urban renewal program. This second lodge was later sold in the mid-1970s to the Mental Patients Association, who operated it as a halfway house. To meet the social needs of women in the area, a Women's Centre was opened at 342 East Hastings Street in 1967. The Centre provided typewriters, sewing machines, steam irons, hair washing and drying facilities, a television, a radio, a turntable, and children's toys and games. Volunteers at the Centre served tea daily, held monthly birthday parties and sponsored demonstrations and talks. This Centre later moved to 217 Dunlevy Avenue, and eventually closed in the mid-1970s. By 1970, several other hostels were operating in the Downtown Eastside area, and social services agencies from the City of Vancouver began to request that the hostel accept long-term guests. As a result, in 1971, the hostel began taking in women who had been discharged from hospitals, but were not yet ready to live on their own. By 1971, the Society saw a need for low-income housing for women, and began to press for the provision of such housing. In 1972, it worked to have women included in Oppenheimer Lodge (a senior citizens' housing project built by the City of Vancouver). It also assisted in the planning of other housing projects for low income women (Bauer Villa and Adanac Place). In 1974, members of the East Enders Society joined with members of the Amherst Lions Society to form the “East-Enders Amherst Lions Housing Society” to work toward providing affordable housing for senior citizens. This Society then obtained property on 3433 Renfrew St. (between 18th and 19th Avenues), where they constructed Renfrew Park Manor, a 41-unit senior citizens housing development. In the late 1970s, the Society became involved in the Franklin House Society to purchase and refurbish a vacant apartment building on 1721 Franklin Street. Two members of the East Enders Society (Margaret Davies and Mary Kelly) were executive members of the Franklin House Society, and the East Enders provided many furnishings and appliances for the building. During the 1970s, income generated by term deposits allowed the Society to support various agencies providing housing and other services to low income women. By 1978, the Society was donating money to agencies such as Powell Place, the Y.W.C.A., Charlsford House, the Makwalla Native Women's Association, T.R.A.C.Y. (Taking Responsible Action for Children and Youth), and others. In the 1990s, the Society began to discuss its own dissolution, and plan for distributing its assets. After accepting proposals and discussing various distribution plans, the Society was presented with a request by the Owl House Society (later renamed the Vi Fineday House Society) for financial assistance to install a $22,000 sprinkler system in the house they had just purchased for use as a shelter. The East Enders Society eventually covered the entire cost of this system, which totaled $26,827.05. Early in 1993, the Society received a proposal from the Kettle Society for a service centre for women with mental health disabilities, and it was decided that the majority of the remaining assets would go to this group. Smaller donations from the group's assets were made to Charlsford House, Children's Foundation, First United Church, St. James Anglican Church, and the Sisters of the Atonement. On October 7, 1993, the Society applied for dissolution under the Societies Act, and was formally dissolved on March 4, 1994.
The Department of Biological Sciences was established in 1965 as a department in the Faculty of Science. From its inception, the department offered a broad curriculum leading to B.Sc., M.Sc., and Ph.D. degrees. The overall mission of the Department was to provide instruction in Biology and, by research, to increase the knowledge base in Biological Sciences. This mission encapsulated four broad areas of responsibility: to provide broad-based undergraduate instruction in modern biology; to provide graduate training leading to Master of Pest Management (M.P.M.), M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees; to provide a work environment and facilities for faculty, researchers, and graduate students; and to provide for expansion and development of research and graduate training and to foster the development of intra- and interdepartmental Centres and Institutes designed to promote collaborative research and training. With the opening of the Pestology Centre in 1967, it began its specialization in pest management and the role of nurturing an international centre for excellence in research and teaching in the field. The Department was administered by the Chair and two standing committees: Departmental Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (DUCC) and the Departmental Graduate Studies Committee (DGSC). The Chair was responsible for the overall administration of the Department, including the operational budget, faculty tenure and salary recommendations, teaching assignments and representation of the Department. The DUCC was responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the undergraduate program. The DGSC was responsible for graduate admission recommendations, monitoring the progress of graduate students, and developing criteria and methodology for student evaluation for purposes of scholarships. By 1990, two further committees had been added: the Departmental Tenure Committee and the Committee on Space. The Departmental Assistant and Lab Coordinator were responsible for much of day-to-day administration of the Department. The Departmental Assistant reported to the Chair, who in turn reported to the Dean of Science. The Pestology Centre, renamed the Centre for Pest Management in the 1980s, was headed by a Director, who was responsible for the planning and development of programs within the Centre and the promotion of external relations. The Director was also actively involved in a number of international organizations for biological control and entomological research. The Director reported to the Department Chair. The Department was involved in or associated with university interdisciplinary research institutes which conducted both research and instruction. These included the Centre for Pest Management and the Institute of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry (IMBB). The IMBB was established in 1987 as an interdisciplinary graduate research institute, and its members held appointments in Biological Sciences and/or Chemistry. The Department was also affiliated with several bodies responsible for research. These research groups included the Behavioural Ecology Research Group (BERG), the Chemical Ecology Research Group (CERG), the Institute of Aquaculture Research (IAR), the Institute of Quaternary Research (IQR), the R.H. Wright Institute for Sensory Science (WISS), and the Western Canadian Universities Marine Biological Society (WCUMBS). From its inception the department expanded greatly in terms of the size of its faculty and the number of programs offered. In 1965, the department consisted of six faculty, and increased to thirty by 1969 and forty by 1994. A significant addition to its program offerings was the establishment in 1973 of the Master of Pest Management degree program. The first Director of the Centre for Pest Management was Dr. Bryan P. Beirne, who served until 1980. In 1986, Dr. J.P. Manfred Mackauer became the new Director, and he was succeeded by Dr. Zamir Punja in 1993.
When Simon Fraser University opened in 1965, it established a Physical Development Centre in the Faculty of Education. This Centre included Physical Development Studies, which was first chaired by Dr. Glen Kirchner. This unit was physically located on the top of the gymnasium complex with laboratories in the gymnasium and across campus. In September 1967, SFU instituted the degree of Bachelor of Science (Kinesiology) intended for students interested in becoming physical education specialists, or pursuing graduate studies and research. It was the first interdisciplinary program in this field to be offered in North America. The Department of Physical Studies was split in 1970, when those faculty with an interest in physical education transferred to the Professional Development Centre within the Faculty of Education. The remaining faculty became the Department of Kinesiology with Dr. Eric Banister as its first chair. This was the first Department of Kinesiology in Canada. The specialist in dance moved to the Centre for the Arts, later re-named the School for the Contemporary Arts. The Department remained in the Faculty of Education administratively although the B.Sc. program was under the direction of the Interdisciplinary Committee on Kinesiology chaired by the Dean of Science. The mandate then was changed to the study of humans structure and function. In 1972 the Department of Kinesiology was moved to the newly-established Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies. After Dr. Banister's term as Chair had ended, he was replaced by Dr. Tom Calvert, who remained as chair until he became Dean of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies in 1977. At this point, Dr. Eric Banister returned for a further term as Chair of the department. In 1976 the physical location of the department was moved to the top floor of the Library Building with laboratories in various locations across campus. It wasn't until 1981 that the department moved to its current building, the Shrum Science Centre, with offices and laboratories in the same location. There has been modest expansion of laboratory and office space since that time. In 1982 Dr. John Dickinson became Chairman of the Department, and in 1985 the academic location of Kinesiology was changed when the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies was disbanded. Kinesiology became a School in the new Faculty of Applied Sciences. Dr. Andy Hoffer was appointed as the new Director of the School in 1991. Dr. John Dickinson returned as Director in 1997. Dr Jim Morrison took over as Director from 2000 to 2002 after which Dr. John Dickinson was re-appointed for a three-year term. During the 33 years of its history, the School of Kinesiology has seen steady growth in terms of student numbers and in terms of faculty size. The first Masters student was graduated in 1970 and the first Ph.D. student in l980. As of 1998, approximately 500 undergraduate students and 50 graduate students study Kinesiology at SFU.
The University Archives acquires, preserves and makes available three categories of materials: (1) the official records of the University, including those created by the Board of Governors, Senate, University committees, faculties, departments and administrative offices; (2) materials documenting the wider University community; and (3) historical research collections that promote the teaching and research activities of the University. The Archives was established within the University Library in 1968 when librarian Liisa Fagerlund was appointed University Archivist on a half-time basis. She continued in this post until 1975 when she left the University. From 1975 to 1978, the Archives functioned within the Special Collections division of the Library. Archival duties were carried out by various library staff members. In 1978, the University Archives was established as a separate administrative unit outside of the Library. Donald Baird, recently retired as University Librarian, became University Archivist and held this position until his retirement in 1990. Jim Ross served as University Archivist from 1991 to 1993, and was succeeded by Ian Forsyth in 1994. When the Archives was a function of the University Library, the University Archivist reported to the University Librarian. When the Archives was established as a separate administrative unit, the University Archivist reported directly to the University President. The reporting structure changed in 1986 when the University Archivist reported to the Vice-President, Research/Information Systems; in 1990, when the University Archivist reported to the Associate Vice-President, Academic; and in 1996, when the University Archivist reported to the Registrar/Dean of Students.
The Department of Women's Studies at SFU has its roots in the political climate on campus during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Some students and faculty expressed a desire to participate in research on women and the development of feminist theory. In the fall of 1971, the first course to focus on women—Geography 404: the Geography of Gender—was offered to 40 students. At the same time, SFU faculty members began to develop and participate in a series of non-credit courses relating to women's issues. As a result of the success of both Geography 404 and these non-credit courses, a proposal for a Women's Studies program was drafted. In 1975 this proposal was presented by Andrea Lebowitz and Margaret Benston to Senate and approved. The Women's Studies program was established within the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, and offered its first course in 1976. The program was administered by the Women's Studies Coordinating Committee, which was responsible for hiring, course development, and other administrative details. The Coordinating Committee was composed of Women's Studies faculty members, elected student representatives, and associated faculty teaching in the program. In 1985, when the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies was eliminated, the Women's Studies program was placed in the Faculty of Arts within the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies. Also in the 1980s, the Ruth Wynn Woodward Endowed Chair in Women's Studies was founded, a role that includes teaching, public speaking engagements, the organization of conferences, and the invitation of distinguished speakers. And, in 1985, the MA program was established and admitted its first students. The 1990s brought further developments: the introduction of a certificate program in 1990; departmental status in 1991; the offering of joint majors, with English in 1991 and with Psychology in 1992; and the approval of Women's Studies as a major in 1994. Political Science and Sociology/Anthropology joint majors were added in 1997. In 2000, the department introduced a course-based MA, followed by additional joint majors with Criminology, History, and Humanities in 2001. A PhD program was established in 2004, and a Gender Studies minor was added to the undergraduate program in the same year. By 2007-2008, there were 775 students enrolled in Women's Studies undergraduate programs and courses, with a further 23 students in the MA and PhD programs. As of 2008, there are six full-time faculty members, four faculty who are jointly appointed with another department, eight faculty from other departments who serve as associate members of the department, three professors emeritae, one adjunct faculty member, and one endowed professor. Three staff members are also employed by the department.
The Canadian Studies program developed from a series of informal meetings among a group of interested faculty members in late 1969 and early 1970. Subsequently representatives from eight departments and the library drafted a proposal for a Canadian Studies program within the Division of General Studies (later the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies). Course offerings began in the fall of 1971. The program was intended to provide a corrective for the lack of Canadian content being offered in the University and to provide a focus for interdisciplinary study. By 1978, the University had appointed a full-time director for the program. The director was advised by a Steering Committee with one member from each department in the University which offered courses acceptable for credit towards the minor in Canadian Studies. The Steering Committee also included representatives from the Faculty of Education, the library, and the Student Society. In 1980, the program was redesignated as the Centre for Canadian Studies, and offered students a major and honours in Canadian Studies. In addition, the Centre developed a French Canadian Studies Certificate Program. Upon the dissolution of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies in 1985, the Centre for Canadian Studies became part of the Division of Interdisciplinary Studies within the Faculty of Arts.
Patrick McTaggart-Cowan was a distinguished meteorologist who served as the first president of SFU. McTaggart-Cowan was born in Edinburgh on May 31, 1912 and immigrated with his family to Canada in 1913. The McTaggart-Cowan family settled in North Vancouver, British Columbia. Patrick McTaggart-Cowan attended the University of British Columbia, graduating with an honours degree in Mathematics and Physics in 1933. He proceeded to further studies at Oxford as a British Columbia Rhodes Scholar, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in Natural Science in 1936. In 1939 McTaggart-Cowan married Margaret Palmer, with whom he had two children: a daughter, Gillian, born in 1942; and a son, James Duncan, born in 1944. Patrick McTaggart-Cowan passed away in 1997 at the age of 85. Patrick McTaggart-Cowan was well known in Canada as a meteorologist, scientist and educator. After Oxford, he joined the Meteorological Service of Canada. As officer in charge of the meteorological service in Newfoundland from 1937 to 1942, he pioneered weather services for the first transatlantic passenger flights. During W.W.II, McTaggart-Cowan was chief meteorologist for the RAF Ferry Command, and was responsible for forecasting weather conditions for delivery of airplanes from North America to Europe. McTaggart-Cowan's skill in forecasting won him the gratitude of hundreds of pilots ferrying planes across the Atlantic, and earned him membership as an Officer of the British Empire in 1944. From 1945 to 1963, McTaggart-Cowan worked for the Meteorological Service of Canada in Ontario, where he became the Director in 1959. In 1963, McTaggart-Cowan accepted the position as first president of Simon Fraser University, and moved back to British Columbia. He helped to guide construction of the University, oversaw the hiring of professional staff, and helped to set up the academic structure of the university which opened in 1965. In 1968, McTaggart-Cowan was asked to resign his position as President by the Board of Governors. McTaggart-Cowan went on to head the Science Council of Canada from 1968 until his retirement in 1975. While with the Science Council, he was appointed by the federal Minister of Transport to head the Task Force Operation Oil in 1970 to clean up the oil spill in Chedabucto Bay, Nova Scotia. After retirement, McTaggart-Cowan moved to his farm in Bracebridge, Ontario where he continued to take an active part in environmental and science policy issues, such as acid rain, water pollution, and science education. He also became a beekeeper. Patrick Duncan McTaggart-Cowan was the recipient of a number of international medals and honours. His national contributions earned him 7 honourary doctorates from across Canada, including those from the University of British Columbia and from Simon Fraser University. He was created an Officer of the Order of Canada in 1979. In addition, he received a Coronation Medal in 1953 and the Canada Centennial Medal in 1967. For further information, see autobiographical notes, F 65-1-0-1.
Gillian Stainsby received her Master's Degree at SFU for her thesis, "It's the Smell of Money": Women Shoreworkers of British Columbia. For further biographical information, see Appendix A3, "Acknowledgements," photocopied from Stainsby's thesis (available in hard-copy finding aid only).
The Simon Fraser Non-Faculty Teachers' Association was formed to negotiate collective agreements between the University and non-faculty teaching staff. The Association contrasted its activities with the work of the Graduate Students' Association, which concentrated on non-contractual matters such as student housing. The executives of both organizations had members in common. The complete history of the Non-Faculty Teachers' Association is not known. Its work was taken over by other organizations: the Graduate Student Union, formed in 1971, and the Teaching Support Staff Union, chartered in 1976.
The Department of Chemistry at Simon Fraser University was founded in 1965 as a charter department in the Faculty of Science. The Department has been responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in organic, inorganic, physical, theoretical, nuclear chemistry, as well as biochemistry. It became known for its breadth of programs and was unique in Canada for its involvement in the nuclear field, which is commonly found in physics departments. The Department offered degrees at all levels from the beginning. Honours and majors degrees in Chemistry are awarded at the B.Sc. level and after a separate program in Biochemistry was instituted in 1968, similar honours and majors degrees in Biochemistry were added. In addition, minor programs are offered in all areas. A joint program with the Physics Department in Chemical Physics was initiated early in the history of the Department, and in the early 1980s, a joint Nuclear Science minor program with the Physics Department was started. An undergraduate cooperative education program began in 1982. Administratively, the Department began with a Head of Chemistry who was appointed without term. In 1968 this was changed to an elected Head which, in turn, was changed to a Chair in 1972. In addition to the elected Departmental Tenure Committee, there were 3 main standing committees charged with the responsibility of ensuring the smooth and effective operation of the Department's business. They were the Undergraduate Studies Committee, the Graduate Studies Committee, and the Appointments Committee, which also acted as a long-range planning committee. These committees were appointed by the Chair and, in the case of the Undergraduate and Graduate Committees, had separate chairs. There were additional minor committees such as the Space Committee and the Safety Committee. Departmental operations were also assisted by Academic Advisors in Chemistry and Biochemistry, and the Graduate Admissions Officer. The Laboratory Coordinator (formerly the Departmental Assistant), helped with many administrative tasks. The Department has been involved with TRIUMF (Tri-University Meson Facility) since its establishment in 1974, which marked the beginning of a major local research program in the nuclear sciences and associated areas. A long-standing research collaboration with members of the Department of Biological Sciences, called the Chemical Ecology Research Group, was formed in 1981. During the Department's first year 12 faculty members were appointed. After an initial rapid increase in the next few years, the Department had a relatively stable number of 26 permanent faculty members by 1986.
The Theoretical Science Institute was an organization of a number of theoreticians in the Biology, Chemistry and Mathematics Departments at S.F.U. The purpose of the Institute was to provide a better research environment in theoretical Chemistry and Physics and certain areas of Applied Mathematics, in order to improve the University's research effort and to attract high calibre sabbatical visitors, post-doctoral fellows and graduate students.
Allan Cunningham was the first head of the History Department at Simon Fraser University. He obtained his BA degree from the University of Durham, and his MA and PhD degrees from the University of London. He was a Senior Research Fellow at Oxford University, when he accepted an appointment to SFU in 1964 to set up the History Department. Cunningham was a specialist in the Middle East and Arab-Israeli relations. A fellow of the Royal Geographic Society, the Royal Historical Society, and the Turkish Historical Society, Cunningham won a Guggenheim fellowship in 1979. He also served two terms as Dean of Arts during the early years of the University. In addition to his career as a historian, Cunningham had a distinguished record as a spitfire pilot during World War II. He was also an accomplished painter and a well-known mountaineer. The Peak of the Brothers in the Andes is named after him and his brother, Frank Cunningham, who taught in SFU's geography department. Allan Cunningham died in January 1988.
Marge Hollibaugh was active in the Vancouver Women's Caucus in the late 1960s and helped to organize the Western Regional Conference on Women's Liberation at the University of British Columbia in 1969 and the Abortion Caravan 1970. For a biographical sketch of Marge Hollibaugh, see Appendix A for an excerpt from Frances Wasserlein's SFU Master's thesis, An Arrow Aimed at the Heart: The Vancouver Women's CAUCUS and the Abortion Campaign, 1969-1971, July 1990.
The Simon Fraser University Society (SFUSS) was established on October 5, 1965. "University" was later dropped and it is now known as the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS). The SFSS still maintains its original constitutional objectives: "to promote, direct, administer, coordinate all student activities of, by and for the students of Simon Fraser University, and to promote cooperation amongst the students of Simon Fraser University and cooperation between the members of the Society and students within the Province and elsewhere." Its mandate has come to include advocating for students rights and providing services to graduate and undergraduate members. These include advocacy services, such as Legal Aid and Women's Centre, and retail services, such as Quad Books, the Print Shop and the Pub. In its first year, the Society organized social events, co-sponsored Vietnam teach-ins, started a co-op bookstore, and protested against the poor quality food offered on campus. In the 1970s, the Society organized against tuition fee increases, lobbied for improved on-campus housing, started a women's centre, and opened a student-run pub. The 1980s saw the development of plans for a student union building and a continuation in the struggle for affordable education. In the 1990s the Society has constructed the Maggie Benston Centre, expanded its services and continues to advocate on behalf of students for accessible, affordable education. The Executive Council originally consisted of 14 elected officers: President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, Ombudsman, Clubs Director, Public Relations Officer, Arts, Science and Education Presidents, Athletics Coordinator, Social Convenor, Cultural Director, and Housing coordinator. This remained until 1977 when changes to constitutional by laws established five at large positions: President, Treasurer, External and Internal Relations Officers, Secretary, and Public Relations Officer and the Ombuds Office. Currently, six elected Executive officers and 36 Student Union representatives elected by students from each academic department sit on the Forum, the student representative body responsible for all major Student Society decisions. The Departmental Student Unions and Standing Committees supply information and recommendations to the Forum. Student Society Standing Committees deal with every aspect of the Society's operations.
The Women's Studies Association of British Columbia was a province-wide organization set up in 1974 to improve women's social status through the promotion, continuation and development of women'studies programmes at the post-secondary level of education and at adult community education centres. Soon afterwards, the association expanded to include high-school women's studies curricula. On December 11, 1978 the association incorporated as a society; it disbanded in 1980 due to declining support and lack of representation by members from colleges and universities. The objectives of the Women's Studies Association were to promote women's studies in the province; to encourage research into previously unexamined aspects of Canadian women's lives, with particular emphasis on BC; to establish adequate support services for women at all post-secondary institutions throughout the province; and, to ensure that women's studies remained a part of the women's movement and that staff and students involved in women's studies were familiar with the aims and objectives of the women's movement. A standing committee consisting of a coordinator, a secretary, a treasurer, a communications organizer, and a member-at-large directed the association. Membership included students and faculty from the province's community colleges and universities, persons from community service groups, and people with an individual interest in women's studies.
The Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre Society was established as the result of efforts by a small group of women who met originally as a consciousness-raising group in 1974. They saw the need to establish a place for women to meet, give support, share their knowledge and experience, and to have a place that could provide a safe environment for women in crisis. With the support of the city councils of Coquitlam, Port Coquitlam, and Port Moody, the women were given an old concession stand to convert into the Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre in 1975. The society itself incorporated under the British Columbia Societies Act in 1975, and ran the centre, which provides not only a meeting place, but also information, referrals and volunteer opportunities. The society also lobbies government, and is involved in community projects, such as the Coquitlam Women's Transition House. The Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre is run as a collective. Committees are formed as required. Each committee is responsible to the membership and gives a report at the general monthly meetings. A steering committee coordinates all activities. It consists of five women with a rotating membership; every three months one of its members is replaced in order to allow more women in the centre to be involved in the process of decision making. This structure ensures that there are experienced members on the steering committee at all times, but allows new (and inexperienced) members to participate and learn. The steering committee also ensures that decisions made at general meetings are carried out and brings issues forward to the general membership for action. The Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre continues to be active to this day, and operates under the guiding principles of feminism, including the idea that women have the right to be full and equal members of society. It is a member of the National Action Committee for the Status of Women; the BC/Yukon Association of Women's Centres; the Legal, Education, and Action Fund; and the BC Coalition for Abortion Clinics.
Hari Prakash Sharma (1934-2010) was a sociologist and Marxist scholar who came from the United States, politicized by the anti-war movement and inspired by the politically charged atmosphere at Simon Fraser University in 1968. He joined the Department of Political Science, Sociology, and Anthropology in that year and taught until his retirement in 1999 when he was honoured by the university as Professor Emeritus. He was born on November 9, 1934 (although some records indicate January 10, 1934 as his date of birth) at Dadri in Uttar Pradesh, India, the second of eight children born to Kundun Lal Sharma and Moharli Devi Sharma. His father was a railway stationmaster, and the family moved frequently. Sharma earned his BA from Agra University in 1954. After a five-year stint as Lower Division Clerk and Typist for the Government of India in the Central Excise and Customs Department, he earned an MA in Social Work from Delhi University in 1960. He then accepted a post as Lecturer at the Delhi School of Social Work, where he remained for three years. In 1963, Sharma moved to the US to further his education. He received an MS in Social Work from Case Western Reserve University in 1964 and a PhD in Rural Sociology from Cornell University in 1968. He taught briefly at the University of California, Los Angeles before accepting a position at SFU. As a faculty member of SFU, Sharma became a champion of the academic rights of colleagues who faced the threat of dismissal for their support of student-led movements to democratize the university. Notably, he supported fellow colleague and friend Kathleen Gough, a British anthropologist with Marxist leanings who was suspended for her political activities. Gough and Sharma co-edited "Imperialism and Revolution in South Asia," which was published in the Monthly Review, an independent socialist journal, in 1974. His research areas of special interest included political economy and agrarian social structures, particularly in India; social movements, political mobilization, ethnic and cultural identities; race and class; and nation-building among the aboriginal people of British Columbia. He wrote extensively on those topics and provided guest lectures at over 50 universities and scholarly institutions in Asia, Europe, and North America. In the spring of 1967, the Naxalbari peasant uprising inspired him to travel to India and several other Asian countries. Upon his return, he became committed to political activism from an anti-imperialist perspective. During 1971-72, Sharma was a founding member of and contributor to the Georgia Straight Collective, which produced a publication for radical and alternative views. In 1973, he went to Amnesty International in London and the Commission of Jurists in Geneva and made a written representation to the UN Human Rights Commission in an effort to publicize the condition of more than 30,000 political prisoners in Indian jails. In 1974, Sharma and his comrade Gautam Appa of the London School of Economics organized a petition of international scholars to protest the treatment of political prisoners in India, which he handed to the Indian Consulate in Vancouver, BC on August 15 of the same year. On a return trip from India in early 1975, Hari Sharma began to travel across North American campuses giving talks and mobilizing people toward the formation of a patriotic organization of Indians living in North America. This effort contributed to the founding of the Indian People's Association in North America (IPANA) on June 25, 1975, the same day on which Indira Gandhi declared a State of Emergency in India. The opposition to what was identified as a "fascist dictatorship" became the urgent task of IPANA along with the defense of the thousands of political prisoners. IPANA established chapters in several North American cities, with its most active chapters in Montréal, Vancouver, New York, Toronto, and Boston. It had links with patriotic organizations in San Francisco, Chicago, Winnipeg, and Edmonton. In their effort to oppose imperialism and to promote democratic rights and social justice in India, IPANA produced three publications: the quarterly New India Bulletin, which came out of Montréal from 1975; India Now, a monthly that was produced in New York from 1976; and Wangar, a Punjabi paper that was produced from Vancouver every two months from 1977. In addition to its publications, IPANA held numerous public meetings, demonstrations, lectures, films, and cultural programs to highlight the systemic oppression of dalits, peasants, and workers that mocked any concept of democracy and freedom put forth by the existing Government of India. One of IPANA’s first public interventions in North America was to sponsor a speaking tour by Mary Tyler, a British writer who had been held in an Indian prison for several years without any formal charge for alleged revolutionary activities in Bihar. Under Sharma's leadership, IPANA also supported the struggles of minorities and workers in BC. He was a primary force in the founding of the British Columbia Organization to Fight Racism (BCOFR). Through the 1980s, IPANA and BCOFR engaged thousands of people from several communities. Both Sharma and IPANA also helped form the Canadian Farmworkers Union in 1980. In the 1980s, Sharma focused much of his research and writing on the condition of minorities in India, which came to a crisis with the attack on the Golden Temple and the massacre of Sikhs in Delhi in 1984 following the assassination of Indira Gandhi. He defended the human rights of Sikhs and of Muslims who became the primary targets of the Hindutva movements advocating Hindu nationalism. In 1987, Sharma organized a parallel conference on the centralization of state power and the threat to minorities in India to coincide with the Commonwealth Conference in Vancouver. In 1989, Sharma united groups of the South Asian community to form the Komagata Maru Historical Society. The event commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Komagata Maru incident in which Indian immigrants traveling to Canada on a chartered ship were turned away from the shores of Vancouver by racist policies of the government. The society united the community, and as a result of its activities, the government installed a commemorative plaque in Vancouver in 1989. In 2004, during a screening of the film Continuous Journey (a documentary on the episode by the Toronto filmmaker Ali Kazimi), Mayor of Vancouver Larry Campbell sent a scroll to Sharma on behalf of the Komagata Historical Society declaring the week to be dedicated to the memory of Komagata Maru. Following the attack on the Babri Masjid mosque in December 1992, Hari Sharma became the prime mover in the formation of a North American organization dedicated to the defence of minority rights in India, also known as Non-Resident Indians for Secularism and Democracy (NRISAD). This organization united people of Indian origin collectively through educational and cultural activities. One of its significant events in Vancouver included the celebration of the 50th anniversary of India's independence from colonial rule. The event united people across the South Asian community to focus on issues that included the urgency for peace between Pakistan and India. In September 1999, Sharma travelled to Montréal to join the founding of the International South Asia Forum (INSAF), a coalition of individuals and organizations dedicated to the promotion of peace and social justice in South Asia. He became its first President and organized the Second Conference in Vancouver in August 2001. Over time, NRISAD recognized a need to widen the focus of the organization to include the whole of South Asia because its membership in Vancouver comprised people from the entire subcontinent of India and the diaspora in East Africa and other countries. Under Sharma's leadership, NRISAD evolved into the South Asian Network for Secularism and Democracy (SANSAD) in 2000. It pursued the same quest as its predecessors for peace and democracy based secularism, human rights, and social justice. Some activities included condemning the massacre of Muslims in Gujarat in 2002 (for which Sharma was denied a visa to visit India), championing the human rights of Kashmiris, condemning violence against journalists and academics in Bangladesh, supporting the movement for democracy and social justice in Nepal, and defending the human rights of Tamils under the attack of the Sri Lankan state. Throughout the years, Hari Sharma developed close ties and contacts with various political groups and communities. He worked with the First Nations in the Interior of BC, and as co-chair (along with Dr. Ronald Ignace, the elected Chief of the Skeetchestn Band from 1982 to 2003 and between 2007 and 2009), he helped to promote and to defend the merit of the SFU Kamloops First Nations program (then the SCES/SFU Program). In addition to his regular workload at SFU, Sharma taught courses such as Violence and War, Marxist Theory, and Third World issues on different occasions in Kamloops. Although the 16-year partnership between SFU and the Secwepemc Cultural Education Society of the Shuswap Nation (SCES) was dissolved by mutual agreement in 2004, over 400 students graduated from the program. In addition to his academic work and political activism, Hari Sharma was an accomplished literary writer and self-taught photographer. He wrote and published short stories in Hindi. Many of his works also were also translated into Bengali, Punjabi, and English. Vapsi, one of his stories, was made into a Doordarshan (Indian public service broadcaster) film. Sharma attributed his interest in photography to a Japanese camera that had been "gifted" to him as a bribe by an importer while pushing files as a government worker. The camera became something that Sharma frequently took with him on trips to India to capture snippets of everyday life. Over the years, his photographs were published in academic journals and art magazines. His works were also publicly displayed in galleries in North America, Europe, and India. After more than 50 years of political activity, Hari Sharma developed contacts and friendships with many who supported revolutionary movements. He married twice. After a prolonged battle with cancer, Hari Sharma died in his Burnaby home surrounded by his closest comrades on March 16, 2010.
The Simon Fraser University Women's Association was founded in 1965, and dissolved in 1977. The association met for the first time on March 16, 1965 under the name Simon Fraser University Women's Club. Its first objectives were to provide hospitality to new arrivals at the university, and to help with housing. Shortly afterwards the association expanded its purpose to be the encouragement of the best interests of Simon Fraser University and the general community. The management and administration of the association rested with the executive, consisting of a President, Vice-Presidents, Secretary, Treasurer, and the past President. In 1966, the group changed its name to the Simon Fraser University Faculty Women's Association, and, in 1973, again changed its name to the Simon Fraser University Women's Association. Regular membership in the association was open to members and wives of the university's teaching or research staff, administrative staff officers, library staff, governing staff, and to other women connected to the university as approved by the association's executive. Activities of the association included regular meetings, social activities such as outings and lectures, wine and cheese parties, and the organization of the annual Christmas party for the children of staff and faculty. The Simon Fraser University Women's Association dissolved in 1977 due to declining membership and lack of interest in its activities.
The Simon Fraser University Faculty Association was incorporated under the British Columbia Societies Act on June 24, 1969, although it had been active on campus since the university opened in 1965. The Association is concerned with the economic benefits available to faculty including salary and fringe benefits; grievances; conditions of employment; procedural matters with respect to promotion, granting of tenure, dismissal and disciplinary actions; and other related areas. The Faculty Association also concerns itself with asserting the integrity of the academic profession, defending independence of thought, and encouraging the social and recreational association of its members. On the Provincial level, the Association is a charter member of the Confederation of University Faculty Associations of British Columbia (CUFABC) and is a member of the governing council. Nationally, the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association is a member of the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT). An Executive Council elected by the membership administers the Faculty Association. The Executive consists of the President, Vice President, and Directors. In 1969, there were six Directors, which increased to eight by 1998. See Appendix A8 for a list of Executive Committee members from 1965 to 1988. Over the years various standing and ad hoc committees have assisted the Executive Council. The most recent constitution (1998) provides for an Economic Benefits Committee and a Pension Committee. Currently, the Faculty Association continues to advocate on behalf of its members, and acts as their representative in the faculty's relationship with the university.
The School of Criminology was established under the name of the Department of Criminology by the Board of Governors in February 1975. In 1984, it was renamed the School of Criminology. The School is responsible, through its Director, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the field of Criminology. The first director, Dr. Ezzat Fattah, set out the goals of the Criminology program, which included the mission to contribute to public education and public enlightenment about crime and justice through the dissemination of scientific, unbiased information; accelerate the shaping of a fair, rational and responsive criminal justice system; promote understanding and co-operation between people in the social, legal and behavioral sciences, in and outside the University, through an interdisciplinary and integrative approach, through team teaching and team research, and; contribute in various ways to social development and social reform. In December 1972, a faculty ad hoc committee recommended that graduate and undergraduate programs in Criminology be established and incorporated within the Division of General Studies. In August 1973, the Senate resolved to accept this recommendation. In 1974, Criminology was established as a program within the new Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, before becoming a full department the next year. In 1985, the School left the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies to become a departmental unit within the Faculty of Arts. In 1978 the School added an M.A. program to its offerings, followed in 1984 by the addition of a Ph.D. program. In meeting its research and instruction mandates, the School has sponsored the Criminology Research Centre, whose management committee consists of members of the department. The School has also taken part in the University's Directed Independent Study Course (DISC) Program, recruiting its first Distance Education Coordinator in 1979 and offering its first DIS course in 1980. In May 1981, The Universities Council of B.C. approved the establishment of Certificate Programs (General and Advanced) in Criminology, comprised of a variety of home study courses. The School also sponsors conferences on various topics, and members of the department have attended conferences elsewhere. The School has been organized administratively into a Director, Associate Directors, and a number of standing committees. The Director is the chief administrative officer, whose responsibilities include the management of the operational budget; faculty tenure, promotion and salary recommendations; teaching assignments; and representation of the School to external bodies. The Director reported, until 1985, directly to the Dean of Interdisciplinary Studies. The Associate Directors have been responsible for space allotment, the appointment of sessional staff, the coordination of curriculum development in graduate and undergraduate programs, and advice to the Director on specific matters. The Departmental Assistant is responsible for much of the day-to-day administration of the School, including the management of the departmental budget, the scheduling of courses, the provision of liaison with administrative offices, and advising students. The number and composition of departmental committees has varied over time. Long-standing committees include the Undergraduate and Graduate Curriculum Committees. The School also struck various ad hoc committees when required, including those on Field Practices, Planning and Co-ordinating; Statistics; and Legal Studies.
The origins of Recreational Services and Athletics can be traced to two predecessor bodies established during the founding of the University in 1965. These bodies, the Athletics Program and the Recreation Program, were originally components of the Physical Development Centre, one of three centres that comprised the Faculty of Education. The organization of the Centre, approved by the Board of Governors on 14 January 1965, consisted of a Chairman acting as Head, responsible to the Dean of Education. Responsible to the Chairman were three Directors who oversaw the Centre's program areas of athletics, recreation, and research and professional development. The Athletic Program was responsible for providing an opportunity to qualified students to increase their standards of athletic proficiency through competition in intercollegiate sports. Initially, the University competed on an intercollegiate level in three sports -- football, basketball and aquatic sports. Intercollegiate competition in other sports was added to the Program when interest and resources permitted. In contrast, the Recreation Program was responsible for providing a broad range of activities to students, faculty, staff, and the off-campus community through sport clubs, intramurals, community recreation programs and non-credit workshops and activity courses. Reorganization within the Physical Development Centre, in 1967, resulted in the formation of the Physical Development Studies Department (later Kinesiology) and the merger of Athletics and Recreation as the Department of Athletics and Recreational Services. In 1970, responsibility for the Department of Athletics and Recreational Services was transferred from the Centre and the Faculty of Education to the Vice-President, Administration. In 1971, the VP, Administration divided the Department into three new departments: Athletics, Recreation, and Athletic and Recreational Services . Athletic and Recreational Services was headed by a Manager who reported to the Director of Ancillary Services and was responsible for the maintenance of athletic and recreational facilities and for the servicing of both the Athletics and Recreation Departments for such things as secretarial services, physiotherapy, audio-visual requirements, purchasing, equipment, ticket sales, transportation, accommodations, temporary help, scheduling, budget control, building and playfield maintenance and for all general administration. The Departments of Athletics and Recreation were headed by Directors who reported directly to the VP, Administration. Athletics remained responsible for intercollegiate sports, and Recreation for all other sports and leisure activities. Slight changes to the above reporting structure occurred in 1979 when responsibility for the Department of Athletic and Recreational Services was transferred from the Director of Ancillary Services to the Directors of Athletics and Recreation. Reorganization occurred again in 1984 when the Departments of Athletics and Recreation were amalgamated to form the Department of Athletics and Recreation. This structure remained stable until 1996 when the Department of Athletics and Recreation merged with the Department of Athletic and Recreational Services to form the current Department of Recreational Services and Athletics. Placement of the Department of Recreational Services and Athletics and its predecessors within the organizational hierarchy of the University have also undergone some changes over their history. As stated above, the Department(s) were originally located in the Physical Development Centre of the Faculty of Education and later transferred to the Vice-President, Administration. In 1986, the Department of Athletics and Recreation began reporting to the new office of the Executive Director of Administrative Services, a successor to the Vice-President, Administration. This office reverted to its former title of VP, Administration in 1990. In 1996, the Department was made a division of Campus Community Services which in turn was responsible to the Dean and Registrar of Student Services. The Dean and Registrar of Student Services reports to the Vice-President, Academic. This placement represents the current status of Recreational Services and Athletics.
West Coast Review was a magazine of the arts published by the West Coast Review Society with the support of SFU. Established in 1966 by Fred Candelaria, a professor of English, the magazine published music, drama, fiction, poetry, photography, drawings and etchings as well as articles as reviews. The magazine had a policy of promoting new Canadian talent. In addition to financial assistance from the University, the journal received funding at various times from private and governmental agencies, the Simon Fraser Student Society, advertising, and subscriptions. West Coast Review was initially published three times a year until 1969 when it became a quarterly journal. It periodically devoted special issues to a particular genre or theme such as West Coast Photographers. In 1990, West Coast Review was succeeded by West Coast Line.
Ellen Frank's interest in the women's movement began in 1972, while on a Kibbutz in Israel. At the time she was married, expecting her second child, and reading Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique. In April, upon return to Vancouver, Ellen Frank contacted the 'Woman's Centre' and became involved in a consciousness-raising group. Ms. Frank's involvement with the women's movement expanded from these beginnings. She became, in her words, "unmarried," and went to work at the Woman's Place. In addition, Ms. Frank also became involved in organizing around day care issues, came out as a lesbian, and worked around issues of violence against women. She also spent time organizing demonstrations, being active in occupations, and involved in the fight for women's rights in general. Ms. Frank passed away on January 30, 2017.
The British Columbia Universities Act of March 1963, which created Simon Fraser University, required the establishment of a University Senate for the management of curriculum, instruction and education. The Act, and its subsequent amendments over the years, specified the membership, duties and powers of the Senate. As of May 2003 Senate is made up of 60 elected and appointed members chosen from faculty, students, staff, convocation, and the community. Senate is responsible for such academic matters as determining requirements for admission; providing for and granting degrees including honorary degrees; recommending to the Board of Governors the establishment or discontinuation of any faculty, department, or course of instruction; awarding fellowships and bursaries; making rules for the management of the library; and providing for the publication of the University calendar. The President of the University is the chair of the Senate. Senate elects a Vice-Chair annually. The Registrar is the Secretary of Senate according to the University Act, and has delegated to the Director, University Secretariat, the responsibilities for the management of Senate and its committees. Senate usually meets once a month in open and closed sessions except for August when no meeting is held. Matters for decision are normally brought to Senate through the Senate Committee on Agenda and Rules. The first meeting of the SFU Senate was held November 29, 1965. In 1967, Senate voted to allow three student representatives--a move hailed as a first for a Canadian university. In 1968, in another precedent-setting decision, Senate admitted observers to its open sessions. For further information on Senate membership, committees, duties, powers, and rules, see the appendix to this finding aid which contains a print out from the Senate web page, or consult the web page itself for the most current information at http://www.reg.sfu.ca/Senate/
The University Act provides for a registrar to "keep the records and perform the duties that the board or senate may require." It also states that the registrar "is the secretary of convocation, the senate and of each of the faculties, but has no right to vote as such." The Office of the Registrar is now part of the Office of Student Services. Chief officers:* Norman Barton, Registrar, 1965* Lolita Wilson, Acting Registrar, 1965* D.P. Robertson, Registrar, 1965-1968* Harry M. Evans, Registrar, 1968-1984* Ron Heath, Registrar, 1984-1996* Ron Heath, Registrar / Dean of Student Services, 1996-2006* Nello Angerilli (Associate Vice-President, Students and International), Acting Registrar, 2006-2007* Kate Ross, Registrar, 2007-2013* Tim Rahilly (Associate Vice-President, Students), Acting Registrar, 2013-2014* Mark Walker, Registrar and Executive Director, Student Enrollment, 2014-2016* Rummana Khan Hemani, Registrar and Executive Director, Student Enrollment, 2016-
The Office of the Vice-President Research/Information Systems was officially established on September 1, 1985. Prior to this, the Associate Vice-President, Academic, John Webster was responsible for research and information systems related tasks and correspondence. Reporting directly to the President, the new Vice-President, Tom Calvert, supervised the Instructional Media Centre, Library, Computing Services, Animal Care Facility, and University Archives. Between 1986 and 1993 he also supervised Research Services, ‘SFU Ventures’, and the University/Industry Liaison Office. In November 1988 Calvert was also appointed the Director of the Industry/Liaison Office and held both positions until August 1990. That same year the name Office of Vice-President, Research/Information Systems was changed to Office of the Vice-President, Research. On September 1, 1990 William Leiss replaced Calvert as the new Vice-President Research. Leiss served as Vice-President until August 1993 when he was replaced by Bruce Clayman. Clayman served as the Acting Vice-President, Research until 1994 when he was officially appointed as Vice-President, Research. In 1994 Clayman also began serving as the Dean of Graduate Studies where he handled related policy matters and external relations for the graduate studies program. Clayman served as Vice-President, Research until August 2004 and during this time continued to supervise the Library, Research Services, University/Industry Liaison Office, Animal Care Facility, the Radiation Safety Office, and the Office of Research Ethics. In September 2004, Mario Pinto was appointed as the new Vice-President, Research. The mission of the Office of the Vice-President, Research is to act as an advocate for university research and guide policy development at the university, provincial and national levels. The Office assists faculty members in applying for research grants at all levels of funding. In September of every year the Office participates in the university orientation program coordinated by the Office of the Vice-President, Academic. The Vice-President chairs the President's Research Grant Committee and is President of SF Univentures, a for-profit company owned by SFU and used to commercialize research results. The Vice-President also serves on numerous boards and committees in the research community. The Office of the Vice-President, Research has produced a series of publications through the years reporting on research projects at the university including "Simon Fraser University Research" and "SFU Research Matters." The Office publishes a newsletter three times a year called "Research Links" and supports the distribution of "Research Partners" by the University/Industry Liaison Office.
The Department of Economics and Commerce was established by the Board of Governors in February 1964, and began to offer courses within the Faculty of Arts leading to B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees when the University opened in 1965. The Department was responsible, through its Head, for the promotion of research and the development and delivery of programs in the fields of economics and commerce. The Department expanded rapidly in size, growing from an initial 5 faculty members in 1965 to 52 in 1979. During this period it had greatly expanded its program offerings, including the important addition of a Master of Business Administration program in 1968. In September 1979 the Department underwent a re-organization, when it was subsumed by the new School of Business Administration and Economics in the Faculty of Arts. The School consisted of two departments: Business Administration and Economics. The School existed only until November 1981, when a separate Faculty of Business Administration was established. The Department of Economics has continued to exist in the Faculty of Arts. The Department was administered by a Chair and departmental committees, whose number and composition changed over time. The Chair was responsible for the overall administration of the Department, and reported to the Dean of Arts. In addition to its departmental committees, the Department adopted in 1969 a Constitution and By-laws for its Graduate Program in Economics. It stated that the Program would have three committees: the Graduate Studies Committee, the Curriculum Committee, and the Admissions Committee.
The Simon Fraser Gallery was established as a public art gallery in 1970 by SFU President Kenneth Strand upon the recommendation of the President's Works of Art Committee. At the same time, he appointed James Warren Felter as University Art Curator. He was charged with directing the Gallery's program and serving as curator of the University's art collection known as the Simon Fraser Collection. The Gallery was administratively located in the Centre for Communications and the Arts. The Gallery and the Simon Fraser Collection provided the visual arts component of the Centre. In 1974, the collection had more than five hundred works of art, primarily of Canadian artists. When the Centre for Communications and the Arts became the Centre for the Arts within the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, the position of Curator/Director of Exhibitions became the Director of the Simon Fraser Gallery. During the first ten years of its operation, the Gallery presented 127 exhibitions in its campus facility. In addition to organizing exhibitions and hosting circulating programs on the SFU campus, the Gallery developed its own program of circulating exhibitions to other public art galleries, principally in western Canada. The 1983 programs of the Gallery reflected the University's growing financial crisis and the once extensive program of circulating exhibits was cut back. The new University President, William Saywell, restructured the Works of Art Committee. In 1984, Felter, who had been the chair of the committee, became its secretary and Professor Ed Gibson became chair. In June 1985, after receiving a proposed statement of policy from the President's Works of Arts Committee, President Saywell separated the Gallery from the Centre for the Arts to become an independent unit reporting to the Vice-President, Development. The new policy stated that the primary purpose of the Gallery was to enhance the aesthetic sensibilities of the entire University community as well as the general public. The University Art Curator, who acted as Director of the Gallery, would be responsible for planning and day to day Gallery operation. In January 1986, Ed Gibson succeeded Jim Felter as Director of the Gallery. The President's Works of Art Committee expanded to become the Simon Fraser Gallery Board, with representation from faculty, students, staff and the community. It functioned in an advisory capacity to the Vice-President, Development.
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The Ceremonies and Events Office manages and produces Simon Fraser University's ceremonial, social, fundraising and special events and maintains SFU's traditions and protocol. It is the main office (along with the Registrar's Office) responsible for Spring and Fall Convocation ceremonies. The Office coordinates many other events throughout the year, primarily for the President's Office, University Advancement and Alumni Relations. The office responsibilities include formal university events such as building openings; ceremonies such as SFU Remembers; donor recognition events; staff/employee recognition and awards events. Prior to 1982, the Registrar's Office was responsible for convocation ceremonies, while the President's Office organized other ceremonial functions. Over the years, the title "Ceremonies Officer" was used by various university staff in the Registrar's Office. In February 1982 the position of Director of Ceremonies was formally created when Donna Laws, assumed this position in addition to her role as Secretary to the Board of Governors. She held both positions until her retirement in 1993, when she was succeeded as Director of Ceremonies by her long-time associate, Marilyn Pankratz. The position of Secretary to the Board of Governors was taken over by another university staff member. The Director of Ceremonies reported to the Vice-President, University Development until 1987, when the reporting relationship changed to the Vice-President for SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1992), Vice-President Harbour Centre and External Relations (1992-1994), Office of the President (1994-2002), and the Vice-President, University Advancement (2002-). Chief officers:* Donna Laws, Director, 1982 - 1993* Marilyn Pankratz, Director, 1993 - 2004* Holli Edgelow, Director, 2004 -
The School of Communication has built its curriculum and research around understanding the organization, operation and meaning of the communication messages on which personal, national and global associations are built and sustained. The School had its origins in 1965 as the Centre for Communications and the Arts, a unit in the Faculty of Education which offered credit courses, non-credit workshops, and public events. In 1970, the Faculty of Education was reorganized. The Arts program separated from the Faculty of Education to become part of the Division of General Studies. It retained the organizational title of Centre for Communications and the Arts although it no longer offered academic courses in communication studies. These courses remained in the Faculty of Education and became part of that faculty's Educational Foundations Centre. In 1972 Communication Studies became a department of the newly created Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies. In 1977-1978, its name changed to the Department of Communication. The School concentrated on six areas in the undergraduate program: theory and systems, history of communication, communication processes, communication media, political economy, and communication policy. In 1980, the School played an active role in founding the Canadian Communication Association (CCA). In 1981 a proposal was submitted to the Universities Council of British Columbia to establish a Ph.D. program in Communication. Approval for this program was obtained in 1983, making it the only Communication Department in Canada (west of Ontario) to offer a full set of academic degree programs (Ph.D., M.A., and B.A.) in the communication field. In 1984 the School consolidated its teaching and research areas, focusing on three areas of specialized concentration: communication media, technology and policy. In 1985 after the dissolution of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, the School moved into the Faculty of Applied Sciences, in recognition of the fact that communication is a discipline of practical application. In 1994, the School adopted its current name, the School of Communication. The School continues to be leader in local and international communication research and is involved in a number of projects including the Canadian Centre for Studies in Publishing (founded in 1987), Centre for Policy Research on Science and Technology (established in 1988), The Digest (an on-line journal published by the Centre for Policy Research on Science and Technology), Emergency Preparedness Information Exchange (operated by the Telematics Research lab), and NewsWatch Canada. The School also has a number of lab facilities that supporting research and communication development. These include the Assessment of Technology in Context Design Lab (ATIC-DL) created in 1997, the Emergency Preparedness Information eXchange Lab, the Media Analysis Lab and the Sonic Research Studio (home of the World Soundscape Project established at Simon Fraser University during the late 1960s and early 1970s).
The School of Computing Science began in 1973 as a Program in the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies. Courses were based on a single-track universal curriculum that focused on the interdisciplinary aspects of computing science, featuring a core of mainstream computing topics together with a techniques sector dealing with applications. Core courses were taught by regular Computing Science faculty while the techniques courses were taught by faculty from other disciplines. The Program offered undergraduate courses leading to a minor, major or honors degree in Computing Science. In 1975 the Computing Science Program became a department, with nine tenure track faculty. That same year the School began a Co-operative Education Program that continues to place students in 4 and 8 month work-term positions with local, national, and international industries. In 1979 a graduate program was initiated with the approval of both M.Sc. and Ph.D. programs and the first Ph.D. students were admitted in 1983. In 1985, Computing Science joined the newly formed Faculty of Applied Science and became known as the School of Computing Science. The role of departmental Chairman was renamed Director and in 1989 the School was moved to its current space in the Applied Sciences Building. Over the years, the School's curriculum has developed in response to changing computer technology and faculty research interests focussing on computer theory, hardware and software systems, multimedia applications, databases, and artificial intelligence. The School now offers a general program leading to a B.Sc. and B.A. degree with major or honors in Computing Science and specialist programs leading to a B.Sc degree with a major in Computing Science. It also contributes to a wide variety of programs that combine studies in other academic disciplines. Formal joint programs consist of Joint Major in Information Systems in Business Administration and Computing Science; Joint Major in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry and Computing Science; Mathematics and Computing Science Joint Honors Program; Cognitive Science Program (in cooperation with the Departments of Linguistics, Philosophy, and Psychology); and the Management and Systems Science Program (in cooperation with the Department of Mathematics, the Department of Economics, and the Faculty of Business Administration). The school also offers a minor program that can be taken in conjunction with other major or honors programs or a general degree program. Other programs include Digital Systems Design Honors (established in 1981), a Bachelor of General Studies Minor, the Second Degree Program, and the Certificate Program that provides part and full time students an opportunity to obtain an understanding of the fundamentals of computers and programming without specializing in Computing Science. The School continues to offer a non-credit summer Computer Institute for high school students and teachers. Current research computing facilities at the School include over 300 networked workstations, file servers, CPU servers and other specialized systems. Undergraduate computing facilities include the Computing Science Instructional Lab (CSIL) that provides computers for students to do coursework assigned to particular software platforms. The School of Computing Science operates several interconnected Local Area Networks in cooperation with other schools in the Faculty of Applied Sciences and the Centre for Systems Science (CSS). The Laboratory for Computer and Communications Research (LCCR) is a separate lab operated in cooperation with the Department of Communications. Established in 1982, the LCCR promotes inquiry into the problems of computing and communication research; fosters cooperative efforts between the university, industry and government agencies; and sponsors distinguished visitors.
The Division of Continuing Education was formed in 1971 in order to develop new academic programs and to improve the accessibility of Simon Fraser University to the community. Milton McClaren, Director of the new division reported directly to the Vice-President, Academic. The original terms of reference for the Division of Continuing Education were very broad as the Senate had given it responsibility for courses of instruction offered at "times other than the usual times, in places other than the usual places, and in ways other than the normal ways." A few years later the Senate passed a series of motions which more precisely defined and described the role of the Division and established new procedures for offering and approving non-credit courses. By 1973 the Division of Continuing Education offered several types of programs including evening credit courses for undergraduates and graduates; summer session credit courses (primarily for teachers); off campus courses; and non-credit courses, lecture series and workshops. In 1974 the Program for Senior Citizens was created with the assistance of a government grant. Using the "Age of Options" television program it was able to reach out to seniors in Burnaby and in the surrounding communities. Continuing Education further expanded its student base in 1974 by offering courses in interior and non-metropolitan locations such as the Fraser Valley and Kelowna. In 1975 Dr. Jack Blaney, previously the Associate Director of the Centre for Continuing Education at the University of British Columbia, replaced McClaren as the Dean of the newly renamed Division of Continuing Studies. With this appointment, Blaney became Canada's first Dean of Continuing Studies. The Center for Distance Education was established in the same year and introduced four university correspondence courses to fifty-five registered students. In 1976 the Division of Continuing Studies approved the Extended Studies Diploma that enabled students with an undergraduate degree to undertake further study outside of a traditional graduate program. Backed by encouraging enrollment numbers, a proposal was circulated in late 1978 calling for a downtown program that would provide increased access to the university and support existing campus programs. In February 1980 SFU Downtown officially opened at a storefront location at 822 Howe Street and offered a selection of credit courses for degree completion, career upgrading, and personal interest and development. Organized under a Coordinator of Downtown Programs, courses were structured in six thematic areas: Business and Professional Studies; Urban and Regional Studies; Canadian Studies; Humanities; Health and Fitness Studies; and Social Sciences. The success of the programs soon led to the establishment of the Downtown Education Centre (DEC), a shared space with BCIT located at 549 Howe Street. In 1984 the Downtown Campus Planning Committee presented an interim report to the Senate Committee on Academic Priorities (SCAP) focusing on areas of program development. As a result, the School for Liberal and Professional Studies was established and used as a vehicle for organizing and marketing downtown-based, non-credit continuing studies courses on behalf of departments and faculties. By 1985 downtown programs included the Writing Program, the City Program, the Fine Arts Program and the Professional and Management Studies Program. During this time Blaney was appointed as Vice-President, University Development and Extension while continuing to direct Continuing Studies. Blaney, considered the architect of Continuing Studies at SFU, spearheaded the concept of the university's new campus at Harbour Centre. Opened in 1989 in the historic Spencer Building at 515 West Hastings, the downtown campus was built entirely thorough private sector funding due in part to the strong fundraising efforts of the "Bridge to the Future Campaign." After almost ten years of planning and development, SFU's new downtown campus opened with a curriculum of unique, established programs and specialized spaces that included an arts studio, human performance centre, conference centre, and language and computer laboratories. In the mid-1980's, Continuing Studies initiated two very distinct, off-campus programs. In 1984 the Prison Education Program (PEP) was launched under contract with the Federal Government. For ten years, Continuing Studies administered the program at four penitentiaries - Kent, Matsqui, Mountain, and William Head/Metchosin - and offered inmates courses in the Liberal Arts leading to certificate, degree and diploma completion in several academic disciplines. In 1988, the division created an academic partnership with the Secwepemc Cultural Education Society (SCES) to develop a university program for native students. The Kamloops-based integrated university program was structured with an emphasis on Native studies and social sciences and students were able to earn a BA degree with a major in Sociology or Anthropology. Meanwhile at the Burnaby campus, Continuing Studies programs and courses continued to grow. After serving as Assistant Dean for three years, Jo Lynne Hoegg was appointed Dean of Continuing Studies in 1984 (a position she would hold until 1994.) The Applied Sciences Continuing Education Program began offering specialized non-credit courses for local and international audiences, including computer programming courses, a project management program, and in 1986, the Management Skills in Advanced Technology (MSAT) program. Utilizing a medium found in most households, Continuing Studies worked with KCTS/9 and the Knowledge Network to air television programs developed for distance education courses. Through funding from the BC Ministry of Skills, Labour and Training, the Centre for Distance Education Lab was established in 1995. It was later expanded and renamed the LohnLab in 1997 because of a financial donation from the Earl and Jennie Lohn Foundation. From 1998-1999 Lynn Elen Burton served as Dean and was succeeded by Colin Yerbury in 1999, the current Dean of Continuing Studies. In 2000, the Morris J. Wosk Centre for Dialogue, a state of the art conference centre devoted to facilitating public and private dialogue, opened across the street from Harbour Centre. Continuing Studies is responsible for the program component of the Centre, which, since its opening, has won worldwide acclaim for its design. SFU's newest campus location in Surrey (opened in 2002), also offers continuing studies courses and professional development programs for students. In 2004 the Seniors' Program celebrated its 29th anniversary. It remains an integral part of SFU's commitment to "help adults achieve their intellectual, professional and cultural goals through programs for lifelong learning that build on the strengths of the university and resources of the community." The program continues to offer intellectually challenging non-credit courses each week and it is open to anyone fifty-five years of age and older regardless of their educational background. Tuition is free for seniors sixty years of age or older and a Senior Citizens Certificate is available for those who complete thirty hours of courses. Continuing Studies continues to expand its curriculum every year, developing courses, seminars and workshops in each of its current programming units. As of 2005, they included the Centre for Distance Education, the Centre for Integrated and Credit Studies and the Center for Community and Professional Programs.
The SFU/Secwepemc Cultural Education Society university program began in 1988 as a one-year pilot project with nineteen aboriginal students taking introductory courses in sociology and anthropology. In 1989 the University and the Shuswap Nation entered a formal three-year agreement, followed by another long-term agreement in 1992 to cooperatively run the program which focuses on making university education accessible to aboriginal students. Located on the Kamloops Indian Reserve, the curriculum offers an integrated university program with an emphasis on First Nations studies, research and social sciences. Students can earn credits towards diplomas, certificates, minors or majors in First Nations Studies, Anthropology, Sociology, or Archaeology. It is the first post-secondary institute in British Columbia that offers university level courses in aboriginal languages such as Secwepemc (Shuswap), Upper and Lower Statimc (Lillooet), and Nle7kepmx (Thompson). In 1991 an Archaeology Field School was established and is the only university program for First Nations of its kind in Canada that allows students to receive hands-on experience in archaeological site identification, survey techniques, site testing, excavation and cultural resource management. Campus facilities in Kamloops include administrative and faculty offices, class and seminar rooms, a computer lab, student lounge, resource library, reading room and a dedicated archaeology laboratory.
The Vancouver Women in Trades Association (VWITA) was formed in 1979 and incorporated under the British Columbia Societies Act in 1983. It became inactive in 1987. The organization functioned as an advocacy and support group for women working in, or seeking to work in trades and technology. It sought to facilitate contact among tradeswomen, improve their working conditions, promote greater representation of women in skilled, blue-collar occupations, and further women's access to trades education and training. In pursuing these goals, the Association frequently acted in liaison with other groups, government agencies, unions, businesses and educational institutions. The group also maintained links with other Women in Trades Associations across Canada, including the Women in Trades Kootenay Council. Membership in VWITA generally ranged between forty and fifty women. Annual general meetings and regular monthly meetings were forums for collective decision making, while a number of elected standing committees and coordinators initially carried out on-going business. In 1983 one paid staff position was created (Office Administrator) and in 1985 staff was expanded to three (Office Coordinator, Research Coordinator and Liaison Coordinator). These positions were primarily funded through government grants. Prior to the Association's incorporation in 1983, it was also known as the B.C. Women in Trades and the Women in Trades Association of B.C. Officers of the organizations included Joan Blair, Judy Doll, Alison Stewart, Carolyn Sawyer, Kate Braid, Suzanne Gerard, and Lynn Ryan.
The Women's Monument Project originally operated out of Committee members' homes. It moved to the Women's Centre office at Capilano College in North Vancouver. From 1994 to late 1997, the College provided the Project with its own office. The records were then stored in Christine McDowell's home and transferred to the Archives in 1999.
The records were held by the Department of Spanish and Latin American Studies and the Area Studies Office of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies.
Material was originally collected and donated to the Archives by a number of individuals, including former British Columbia Provincial Apiarist John Corner; Ministry apicultural specialist John Gates; British Columbia Honey Producers Association members John Boone, Grace Fuhr, and Doug McCutcheon; and SFU faculty member Mark Winston (Department of Biological Sciences). Subsequent accessions were donated to the SFU Archives by the Association's John Boone (between 2007 and 2012), Doug McCutcheon (in 2006, 2008, and 2011), and Mark Winston (2015).
The Vancouver Women's Bookstore collection was stored in the basement of the Vancouver Women's Bookstore, until 1980 when Margo Dunn removed it only 10 days before an arsonist's fire destroyed the store. Ms. Dunn stored the material and made additions to the collection. Contributions were also made by Kate Braid, Jan Lancaster, and others. In 1985, Kathleen Hudson took over physical custody and donated the material to the Simon Fraser University Archives in 1996. Material in F-111-9 was donated by Alexandra Bischoff.
The records remained in the possession of Margo Dunn until they were donated to the Simon Fraser University Archives.
The records of Makara were given to Margo Dunn when the magazine ceased to publish. They were retained in Ms. Dunn's custody until donated to the Simon Fraser University Archives.
The records of the Women's Cultural Exchange were given to Margo Dunn when the organization ceased to function. They were retained in Ms. Dunn's custody until donated to the Simon Fraser University Archives.
Upon its dissolution, over two metres of the Association's records were in the custody of its volunteer secretary, Janet Dahr. Ms Dahr donated the materials to the SFU Archives in April 2003 and in May 2003 the Archives formally accessioned and took custody and control of the records.
The records were in the custody of officers of the BCHPA prior to their transfer to Archives. The Central Executive and the various Divisions maintain separate records. The first accession was donated to the SFU Archives by the Association's Doug McCutcheon in February 2001. Approximately 1.25 metres of BCHPA records were previously acquired by the British Columbia Archives in 1987 from from John N. Robertson, then treasurer of BCHPA. The transfer of the material held by the BC Archives to the SFU Archives took place in 2003. Subsequent accessions were donated to the SFU Archives by the Association's John Boone (between 2007 and 2012) and Doug McCutcheon (in 2006, 2008, and 2011). A small accession was donated by Mark Winston in 2015.
Candace Parker originally gave the material to Frances Wasserlein to use for her thesis with the understanding that the material would eventually be donated to an archives.
Archives and Records Management Department held the tapes without any documentation linking them to Scott's thesis.
Archives and Records Management Department held the tapes without any documentation linking them to Walsh's thesis.
The records remained in the custody and control of the Society until its dissolution in 1998, at which time they were transferred into the custody and control of the Technical University of British Columbia.
TeleLearning's management office located at Simon Fraser University continuously maintained custody of the records and transferred the material directly to the Archives following the dissolution of the Network in the fall of 2002.
The records were donated to the Simon Fraser University Archives by Mark Winston in several accessions between 1998 and 2015.The series of video reels and videotapes that comprise the "Bees and Beekeeping" series (F-174-3-5) were previously stored in SFU's Learning and Instructional Development Centre. Francis Campbell (who filmed the series in 1983) located the tapes and sent all original video reels and Umatic videotape copies to the archives during records processing. Please note that these are the only originals and copies of this televised series.
A large number of the files contained in the fonds predate the formal establishment of Academic Planning Services. These records were either created earlier by Alison Watt, the first Director, in her previous position as Assistant to the Vice-President, Academic and carried forward into her new role; or the files were transferred to her for other reasons.
A large number of the files contained in the fonds predate the formal establishment of the Academic Relations Office in 1988. In that year, the new unit assumed responsibility for a number of functions formerly handled by the Assistant to the Vice-Preisident, Academic (Alison Watt). Accordingly a substantial number of pre-1988 files originally created by Watt were inherited by the Academic Relations Office and form part of the fonds.
The files were originally accumulated by the Institute's Director, John Hogarth. Upon dissolution of the Institute in 1974, the material appears to have been transferred to the Office of the Vice-President, Academic. Subsequently the records were put in storage with a number of other closed series as a group of "Special Project Files" under the control of Academic Planning Services. In this form they were transferred to the Archives in 1994.
The records were in the custody of the School's director, John Munro. Upon dissolution of the School, the files appear to have moved with Munro to the Office of the Vice-President, Academic when he became VP. Subsequently the records were put in storage with a number of other closed series as a group of "Special Project Files" under the control of Academic Planning Services. In this form they were transferred to the Archives in 1994.
On September 9, 1965 the first artifacts were donated to Simon Fraser University by descendants of Simon Fraser and members of the Fraser Clan. Donald Fraser, a great-great grandson of Simon Fraser donated several manuscripts believed to be written by Simon Fraser, while Lord Lovat, Chief of the Fraser Clan, donated a ceremonial claymore (sword) and a jewel-encrusted powder horn.Textual records on the subject of Fraser genealogy were donated to the Archives by Barbara Rogers while Fraser family photographs have been donated to the Archives by family members from across North America. Correspondence regarding the photographs can be found in Series 3. Copies of textual records and photographs on the subject of Simon Fraser historic sites and family property were donated to the Archives by amateur historians J. Dennis Casey and Howard Wright of Hoosick Falls, NY.
Records were printed off of the Vancouver Sun website by the archivist.
Records were ordered by the archivist from the Vancouver Sun to be included in the archival collection in May 2006.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Donald G. Munro (ste. 720, 1350 Vidal Street, White Rock, BC V4B 5G6, phone: 535-1537). Black & white photograph depicts Catherine (Kinnear) Ginn sitting in chair in front of home that Simon Fraser built. Negative available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Joyce T. Burke (2014 Kilgore Road, Falls Church, VA 22043). Series of four (4) black & white photographs from SFU opening day ceremonies on September 9, 1965 attended by descendants of Simon Fraser. Negative available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Joyce T. Burke (2014 Kilgore Road, Falls Church, VA 22043). Series of four (4) black & white photographs from SFU opening day ceremonies on September 9, 1965 attended by descendants of Simon Fraser. Negative available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Joyce T. Burke (2014 Kilgore Road, Falls Church, VA 22043). Series of four (4) black & white photographs from SFU opening day ceremonies on September 9, 1965 attended by descendants of Simon Fraser. Negative available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Joyce T. Burke (2014 Kilgore Road, Falls Church, VA 22043). Series of four (4) black & white photographs from SFU opening day ceremonies on September 9, 1965 attended by descendants of Simon Fraser. Negative available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Joyce T. Burke (2014 Kilgore Road, Falls Church, VA 22043). Series of four (4) black & white photographs from SFU opening day ceremonies on September 9, 1965 attended by descendants of Simon Fraser. Negative available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Aileen Britton (ste. 96, 27111 - 0 Avenue, Aldergrove, BC V4W 2T2). Colour photograph of Simon Fraser's gravestone. No negative for photograph.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Irene Fraser (#4-736, N. Elm Street, Fargo, North Dakota 58102). Series of seven (7) black & white photographs of descendants of Simon Fraser. Negatives available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Irene Fraser (#4-736, N. Elm Street, Fargo, North Dakota 58102). Series of seven (7) black & white photographs of descendants of Simon Fraser. Negatives available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Irene Fraser (#4-736, N. Elm Street, Fargo, North Dakota 58102). Note: photograph taken by Don E. Olson Studios, Fargo, North Dakota. Series of seven (7) black & white photographs of descendants of Simon Fraser. Negatives available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Irene Fraser (#4-736, N. Elm Street, Fargo, North Dakota 58102). Series of seven (7) black & white photographs of descendants of Simon Fraser. Negatives available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Irene Fraser (#4-736, N. Elm Street, Fargo, North Dakota 58102). Series of seven (7) black & white photographs of descendants of Simon Fraser. Negatives available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Irene Fraser (#4-736, N. Elm Street, Fargo, North Dakota 58102). Series of seven (7) black & white photographs of descendants of Simon Fraser. Negatives available in F-208-3-0-0-2.
Photograph sent to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers on behalf of Irene Fraser (#4-736, N. Elm Street, Fargo, North Dakota 58102). Series of seven (7) black & white photographs of descendants of Simon Fraser. Negatives available in F-208-3-0-0-2. 
Photo donated to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers, 1996.
Photo donated to SFU Archives by Barbara Rogers, 1996.
Donated to SFU Archives by Debra Bodner, Director/Curator of the Nanaimo District Museum. Photograph was originally given to the Nanaimo District Museum by an unknown donor at an unknown date. Address: Nanaimo District Museum100 Cameron Road Nanaimo, B.C. V9R 2X1phone: 604-753-1821fax: 604-753-1777
Photograph donated to Archives by Minnie (Elcock) Biggerstaff, grand-daughter of Ann Jane (Fraser) Elcock. Ann Jane was the third child of Simon and Catherine Fraser. Born in 1823 and died in 1854.2 copies made by IMC July 24, 1990. Negatives available.
Photograph donated to Archives by Minnie (Elcock) Biggerstaff, great-grand-daughter of Catherine Fraser. Wife of Simon Fraser, born in 1791 and died in 1862.2 copies made by IMC July 24, 1990. Negatives available.
Photograph donated to Archives by Minnie (Elcock) Biggerstaff. Catherine "Kate" Fraser was the daughter of Simon William Fraser and grand-daughter of Simon and Catherine Fraser. Oversize copy made by IMC July 24, 1990. Negatives available.
Photograph donated to Archives by Minnie (Elcock) Biggerstaff. James Fraser was the son of Simon William Fraser and grand-son of Simon and Catherine Fraser. Born c. 1850 and died 1908.Oversize copy made by IMC July 24, 1990. Negatives available.
Photograph donated to Archives by Minnie (Elcock) Biggerstaff. Simon William Fraser was the son (1st child) of Simon and Catherine Fraser. Born in 1821 and died in 1896.Oversize copy made by IMC July 24, 1990. Negatives available.
Photograph donated to Archives by Minnie (Elcock) Biggerstaff. Margaret (Fraser) MacDonald was the daughter of Simon William Fraser and grand-daughter of Simon and Catherine Fraser. Oversize copy made by IMC July 24, 1990. Negatives available.
Photograph donated to Archives by Minnie (Elcock) Biggerstaff. James Fraser was the son of Simon William Fraser and grand-son of Simon and Catherine Fraser. Born c. 1850 and died 1908.Oversize copy made by IMC July 24, 1990. Negatives available.
Photograph donated to Archives by Minnie (Elcock) Biggerstaff. Simon Fraser was the son of Simon William Fraser and grand-son of Simon and Catherine Fraser. Born 184? and died 1919.Oversize copy made by IMC July 24, 1990. Negatives available.
Copy from Provincial Archives of British Columbia, PDP 2258.Copyright for photograph remains with Provincial Archives.
Framed drawing is a copy of a charcoal drawing of explorer Simon Fraser donated to Simon Fraser University in 1965 by his great-great grandson Doanld C. Fraser of Fargo, North Dakota. Copy made from original drawing April 1989 by SFU Archives. Negative for portrait exists, see F-208-3-0-0-2.
Portrait is a charcoal drawing of explorer Simon Fraser donated to Simon Fraser University in 1965 by his great-great grandson Donald C. Fraser of Fargo, North Dakota. Negative for portrait exists, see F-208-3-0-0-2.
Donated to SFU Archives in 1991 by Lee Lightfoot.
Donated to SFU on September 9, 1965 by Lord Lovat, head of the Fraser Clan.
Donated to SFU on September 9, 1965 by Lord Lovat, head of the Fraser Clan. As of January 2006, the claymore remains in the possession of the Office of Ceremonies and Events in their safe. The claymore is used during convocation ceremonies and other university events.
A second copy of "The Business and Financial Chronicle" (Dec 1965) was donated to the SFU Archives by Diane Stiglish in June 2015.
The series consists primarily of material collected by Hugh Johnston; however it also contains material collected during an earlier attempt at writing the history of SFU. In 1990 President William Saywell commissioned history professor Robin Fisher to undertake a history of SFU. Fisher hired graduate student Steve Hicks as his research assistant to photocopy background material from the SFU Archives. When Fisher accepted a position at the University of Northern British Columbia, he took the photocopied material with him. Other commitments forced Fisher to abandon the SFU history project. When a new SFU President, Michael Stevenson, asked Hugh Johnston, to write the history of SFU, Johnston contacted Robin Fisher who sent him his photocopied material in 2001. Johnston incorporated this material into his own records. The Fisher-Hicks material is recognizable because of the "RG" (record group) notation by Hicks at the top of each photocopied document. In 2004, Hicks sent Johnston additional photocopied material that had been forgotten in the basement of his parents' house. The archivist did not retain this material except for draft chapters and notes.
Most of this material was given to Hugh Johnston by C. R. Day. Professor Day was the chair of the Senate Committee on Rules and Procedures Pertaining to Professional Conduct from 1971-1972.
The records (1 file) appear to have originated with the President's Office as documents received for information purposes and maintained in the President's file system (as indicated by the date stamp and file classification annotations). At some point the material was integrated into the records of the Faculty of Education, though it is not known when or how this occurred.
The records of the Institute Fisheries Analysis (IFA) were in the custody of the Institute until 2001, when its successor, the Centre for Coastal Studies, took over the IFA's physical space. At that time, all of the IFA's records were boxed together with Parzival Copes's personal records and shipped to his home in West Vancouver. The records were stored in his garage until their subsequent donation to the Simon Fraser University Archives in 2008.
Peter M. Buitenhuis's records were in his custody until his death in 2004. His widow, Ann Cowan, maintained custody of the records until she donated them to Simon Fraser University Archives in 2010.
Over the years, the University Archives acquired a variety of materials from the Media and Public Relations office (since 2006 known as Public Affairs and Media Relations). These materials were retained for their informational value although they were never formally integrated with the Media and Public Relations fonds (F-61). Archives staff used this material to create displays and to answer reference questions. Over the years, they added additional files originating from other University departments. Originally, the Media and Public Relations office kept these materials in their internal files so they could keep track of potential story leads. Additional files have been added to the collection since the Media and Public Relations fonds first had been processed. Even though the materials held little evidential value for the Media and Public Relations office, their residual informational value made it worthwhile to combine them with similar material previously collected by the Archives.
Hari P. Sharma's records were in his custody until his death in 2010. His brother, Jagat Sharma, maintained custody of the records until he donated them to the Simon Fraser University Archives and Records Management Department in 2011.
The history of the collection is not known. Many of the prints were probably purchased by the University from freelance photographers who photographed the construction with a view towards selling copies of their work to SFU.
The collection was compiled by the staff of the University Archives over a period of years.
The records were donated to the Simon Fraser University Archives by Dr. Thelma Finlayson in two accessions. The first accession was received in 1992 and the second was received in 2010.
The bulk of the records were in the custody of SCWIST member Maria Issa, who transferred them to the Archives in November 1997. A second, smaller accession of records from the Resource Centre was donated to the Archives in July 2000.
The source of the student MBA project reports found in this series is unknown as no supporting documentation exists in the Archives. The records were formally processed after being found with an accompanying box/file list. For unknown reasons, these MBA projects (dating 1970-1977, 121 in total) were not in the MBA Projects and Thesis database maintained by the SFU Library. As of 2006, a retroactive cataloging project is being undertaken to include these reports in the central Library database (searchable by author, title, and date) while the original copies of the records will remain in the Archives.
The W.A.C. Bennett fonds were created and accumulated by W.A.C. Bennett, and includes a number of official files from the Premier’s Office that Bennett took with him when he was defeated in 1972. The fonds remained in Bennett’s possession until he passed away in 1979, at which time custody was transferred to his wife and children.
The collection was compiled by the former University Archivist, Don Baird, and the staff of the University Archives over a period of years.
The McTaggart-Cowan family retained custody of the fonds until 1998 when they donated it to the SFU Archives.
Original was a kinescope made by CBC (a copy of a live television program made by filming the playback monitor). CBC subsequently gave a copy to SFU. Exact date of transfer to the SFU Archives not known. In May 2009, the SFU Archives sent its copy to CBC Archives for digitization. CBC returned the film to SFU Archives along with a digital copy and retained a digital copy for its own holdings.
Original was a set of 5 kinescope films made by CBC (a copy of a live television program made by filming the playback monitor). CBC subsequently gave a copy to SFU. Exact date of transfer to the SFU Archives not known. In May 2009, the SFU Archives sent its copy to CBC Archives for digitization. CBC returned the film reels to SFU Archives along with a digital copy and retained a digital copy for its own holdings.
Records in this sub-series dating prior to 1985 were previously held by the Associate Vice-President, Academic and inherited by the Office of the Vice-President, Research after it was established in 1985.
The records were transferred to the Archives over four accessions between 1999 and 2003.
The Vancouver Women in Trades Association originally operated out of members' houses, then maintained a base in the offices of the Vancouver Status of Women organization. Upon dissolution, its records passed into the possession of one of its members, Carlyal Gittens, and subsequently to another member, Kate Braid.
The fonds of the Women's Monument Project consists of records created and received in the course of carrying out the Project. Activities documented include Committee and sub-committee meetings, fundraising events, groundbreaking and unveiling ceremonies, site selection, dedication, language selection, design selection, construction, and gallery exhibits. Includes proposals, reports, minutes, correspondence, speeches, published materials, press releases, news clippings, design competition guidelines, design submissions, construction contracts, Monument inscriptions, drawings, site maps, photographs and slides, videotapes, a cloth banner, and the original maquette and artwork of the winning design by Beth Alber.
Series consists of records which were used to define and develop the Project within its social and artistic contexts. Includes reference materials such as statistics on violence against women; original proposals for the Project; speeches given by Committee members at public functions; biographies of the fourteen women; "What They're Saying," a brochure of quotations from well-known public figures who supported the Project; information on other memorials; a budget and a financial statement. Examples of core published materials, such as brochures and the single rose logo and letterhead, are preserved here as well as a cloth banner. Also includes a VHS copy of the film, Marker of Change, donated by the film's producer.
File consists of multiple drafts of the project proposal, plus an information sheet describing the project.
File includes statistics and two reports: Statistics Canada's "Violence Against Women Survey: Survey Highlights 1993"; and "Woman Killing: Intimate Femicide in Ontario, 1974–1990" prepared for the Women We Honour Action Committee (April 1992).
Series consists of minutes relating to the decision-making of the Committee which coordinated the Project. During the busy period of 1997, the Committee did not take minutes at every meeting. Also includes annual reports from 1994–1997.
Series consists of letters received from the public about the Project and examples of letters sent by the Committee in response. Also includes official support letters from community leaders, correspondence with the fourteen families of the murdered women, and correspondence with translators for the project's inscription.
Series consists of records relating to the fundraising activities which financed the Project. Activities documented include Reel Change, a filmathon; See Jane Fly, a poetry "bash;" and Lives We Value, a reception. Includes direct mail request letters, and specific requests made to corporations, foundations, unions, associations, VanCity Credit Union and government. Also includes examples of published materials such as programs and flyers.
Series consists of material created by the Project for the media, as well as examples of Canadian print media coverage of the Project. Extensive news clippings from 1991-1998 indicate the scope of the public debate which was inspired by the Project and the social issues it represented. Includes press releases issued by the Committee from 1991-1997, and the text of a television commercial created for the Women's Television Network.
Series consists of records relating to the site for the Monument, and its artistic design. Activities documented are site selection, the national design competition (stages one and two), and selection of the dedication languages inscribed on the Monument. Includes correspondence, notes, a site map, subcommittee minutes, competition guidelines, records pertaining to the jurisdiction of the Vancouver Parks Board and the Vancouver Public Art Committee, copies of all 98 design submissions, and questionnaires given out to the public with regard to the dedication languages. Also includes transcripts and audiotapes containing discussions about the selection of seven dedication languages for the site. Also includes the original maquette and artwork for the winning design by Beth Alber.
Series consists of records relating to the art gallery exhibitions of sixteen Special Mention designs which the Jury selected from the national design competition for the Monument, as well as the three finalists' stage two designs. Activities documented include the first exhibit, Giving Voice, at the Vancouver Art Gallery in 1994, and the touring exhibits at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto in 1995, the Nickel Arts Museum in Calgary in 1996 and the Surrey Art Gallery in 1997. Includes programs and other published materials. Also includes mock-up drawing of exhibit lay-out.
Series consists of records related to the building of Marker of Change, the Women's Monument by the artist, Beth Alber. The Groundbreaking Ceremony is also documented. The monument consists of fourteen pink Laurentian granite "benches" arranged in a wide circle approximately ninety feet in diameter. Each bench approximates the length of a woman's body (5'5"), representing and inscribed with the name of one of the murdered women. (Each name appears on the side of the bench facing into the circle.) A horizontal vulva-shaped hollow, sand-blasted into the top surface of each bench, gathers rainwater, a symbolic vessel for tears and memory. Every other bench has an inscription of the Dedication in one of seven languages. The Dedication reads: The fourteen women named here were murdered December 6, 1989 University of Montreal. We, their sisters and brothers, remember, and work for a better world. In memory and in grief for all women who have been murdered by men. For women of all countries, all classes, all ages, all colours. Surrounding the benches is a protective ring of clay tiles with over five thousand names of individuals and groups who donated to the Project. Tiles inscribed with epitaphs written by the families are located across from the bench of their respective daughters or sisters. A feather inscription designed by Susan Point is incised in Genevieve Bergeron's bench to signify to all First Nations people that the language inscribed there, Chinook, is First Nations. An orientation stand at one corner of the site has key text written in Braille and raised lettering for people who are visually impaired. The site is wheelchair accessible. Includes all of the inscriptions that appear on Marker of Change --- for example, the text on the fourteen families' tiles, on the benches, donor tiles and orientation stand, and a drawing of the feather. Also includes a site map and donor tile placement map, and a file describing tile creation by Sumas Clay Inc. Should damage occur, these records contain the details that would be needed to guide repairs or restoration. Also includes budget, contracts and the Engineer's Seal of Approval.
Series consists of records relating to the Unveiling Ceremony for Marker of Change, which was held on December 6, 1997. Includes speeches given at the ceremony, correspondence, and published materials. Also includes an audiotape of oral readings of the dedication in the seven dedication languages and a two-set videotape of the Unveiling Ceremony.
Series consists of photographs of various activities including fundraising events, December 6th memorials, jury process, committee meetings, design competition exhibition, Monument construction, and dedication of the Monument. Permission to copy the photographic material was granted by the various photographers in return for photo credit.
The fonds of the Department of Psychology consists of records made and received in the course of administering the department, providing instruction, and promoting research. Activities and topics documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental meetings research achievements; student activities; and faculty appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations. Includes correspondence, minutes, reports, policies, faculty employment records, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the general administrative and operational activities of the Department as described in the Scope and Content note. Files are arranged according to the original filing system. Includes correspondence, minutes, reports, policies and other documents.
Series consists of files related to the appointment, salary, and tenure of faculty members. It includes correspondence, curricula vitae, memoranda and reports.
The fonds consists of records relating primarily to the activities of the department and its predecessor programs. Activities and events documented include the evolution of the department, deliberations of departmental committees, correspondence of the director, course instruction including the field school, the role of the LAS student union, and the presentation of special events such as speakers and films.
Series consists of records relating to the development of the two programs that eventually merged to form the Department of Spanish and Latin American Studies. Activities and events documented include curriculum development, program and department proposals, and reporting of courses and events. Records include correspondence, reports, proposals, publications and other documents.
Series consists primarily of records relating to the meetings and deliberations of committees of the predecessor programs of the Department of Spanish and Latin American Studies although the first few departmental meetings of SLAS are included in the Latin American Studies Steering Committee minutes. Records include committee agendas, minutes, and supporting papers. President's Advisory Committee on University Priorities (PACUP) committee files include correspondence. Each committee has been assigned a separate sub-series. Committees have been grouped into the following types: LAS committees, Spanish Division and DLLL committees, and PACUP. Additional records relating to Spanish division meetings, plenary meetings, and committee of chairmen meetings in the Department of Literature, Languages and Linguistics are found in F-13-1-4; F-13-1-47; and F-13-1-8 respectively.
Series consists of the Chair's correspondence with University administration and other departments. Activities and events documented include budget preparation, conference planning, and program development. Records include correspondence, publications, and a single issue of the departmental newsletter.
Series consists of records relating to the instruction offered by the Department of Latin American Studies and its predecessor programs. Series consists primarily of course files as well as a list of DLLL graduands and a history of LAS course enrollment. Records include course outlines, notes, posters, and exam questions.
Starting in 1977 in Guatemala, the Latin American Studies program operated field schools during the summer in various countries. Subsequent field schools were held in Guatemala in 1978 and 1979; in Peru in 1981; in Mexico in 1983 and 1985; and in Cuba in 1988. The field schools provided courses and tours to local archaeological, historical, and tourist sites. Series consists of records relating to the operation of the field schools. Records include brochures, program descriptions and schedules, course outlines, progress and final reports, correspondence, lists of participants, and other documents.
Series consists of files relating to the activities of the Latin American Studies Student Union (LASSU). Activities and events documented include the presentation of cultural events and a course proposal put forward by LASSU. Records include news clippings, posters, correspondence, and newsletters.
Series consists of records relating to public events sponsored by the Latin American Studies program and the Spanish Division of the Department of Literature, Languages, and Linguistics. Activities and events documented include lectures, film series, musical presentations, and conferences. Records include posters, correspondence, brochures, news clippings, and a report on the Spanish-speaking community in greater Vancouver.
Fonds consists of records relating to Braid's life and work as a student, teacher, carpenter, and writer. The first five series from Braid's first donation in 1995 are comprised primarily of interview material relating to Canadian women in trades, in the form of sound recordings, transcripts, notes, and drafts of profiles generated by Kate Braid in the course of four projects: her Master's thesis (1978-1979); a convention in Holland and subsequent trip to Denmark (1984); the Labour Canada booklets (1988); and the CBC Ideas program (1990). Also includes some correspondence, logbooks and published reference material. The next series from several additional accruals in 2009 to 2013 consist of records arising from many aspects of Braid's life. These records include drafts and notes from Braid's writing, projects for CBC Ideas, women in trades, her company, Sisters Construction, and other writing and teaching projects. There is also a large series of correspondence, including letters and emails (printed out) between Braid and other writers, her family, and business correspondents. Finally, there is a series of Braid's diaries, which she has kept regularly from the 1960s to 2012. The fonds is arranged in 24 series: 1. Master's thesis interviews 2. Europe interviews 3. Labour Canada interviews 4. CBC interviews 5. Women in trade 6. In Fine Form: the Canadian Book of Form Poetry 7. Red Bait: Struggles of a Mine Local 8. A Well-mannered Storm: the Glenn Gould Poems 9. Emily Carr: Rebel Artist 10. Inward to the Bones: Georgia Okeeffe's Journey with Emily Carr 11. Vancouver Island Highway Project Road to Equity 12. CBC Ideas: Men of the Deep 13. Appointment calendars 14. Correspondence 15. Personal and early accomplishments 16. Writing and teaching projects 17. Turning Left to the Ladies 18. Journeywoman 19. Diaries 20. First drafts and handwritten notes 21. Sisters construction 22. Publications 23. Covering Rough Ground 24. To this Cedar Fountain
Series consists of documents relating to interviews with tradeswomen and others conducted by Kate Braid throughout British Columbia in the course of research for her Master of Arts thesis at Simon Fraser University. Series includes audio cassettes, transcripts, notes, and correspondence.
In 1983 the Vancouver Women in Trades Association raised money to send Kate Braid to Groningen, Holland, for an international workshop on women in non-traditional work. She traveled further to Denmark and England, and conducted interviews with tradeswomen, including Judy Secker. Series consists of audio cassettes of the interviews.
In 1988 Kate Braid traveled across Canada interviewing tradeswomen for inclusion in two booklets she produced for Labour Canada -- Building the Future: Profiles of Canadian Women in Trades and Looking Ahead: Profiles of Two Canadian Women in Trades. Series includes audio cassettes, transcripts, notes, drafts of profiles, a logbook, correspondence, government publications and reference material.
In 1990 Kate Braid wrote a feature on women in trades for the CBC radio program Ideas, based on a cross-country interview trip. Series includes audio cassettes and logbook.
Series consists of records related to Braid's work with women in trade, including training materials, conference planning and proceedings, reports, curricula, interviews and publications. Series is arranged in 4 subseries: 1. Conference planning 2. Reports 3. Tradeswomen: a quarterly magazine 4. Publications
Series consists primarily of records relating to organizing the conference hosted by SFU on women in trades entitled "The Winning Ticket".
Series consists of records such as reports, studies, conference proceedings, training guides, guidelines, and curricula on women in trade.
Series consists of an incomplete run of the periodical: Tradewomen: a quarterly magazine.
Series consists of publications including Braid's published report Building the Future/Profiles of Canadian Women in Trades.
Item is a videotape copy of a documentary about women who have nontraditional careers in such fields as architecture, transportation, and construction. Explores the views of a group of teenage girls about the factors that influence career choices. Offers advice on educational preparation for careers through the judicious choice of subjects in school.
Series consists of records relating to Braid's work on co-editing, along with Sandy Shreve, a publication on Canadian form poetry. Records include notes and contributions by form type, correspondence with writers, including PK Page, and drafts.
Series consists of record relating to Braid's work co-authoring (along with Al King) the book Red Bait: Struggles of a Mine Local. Series includes transcripts of interviews with Al and Lillian King, drafts, edits and comments to the manuscript by various reviewers, reviews, and Al King's obituary and associated notes.
Series consists of interviews or recordings of Albert King on recollections of his time as a union organizer, evolution of occupational health and safety. Includes recordings of revisions recommended by King.
Series consists of records relating to writing the poems about Glenn Gould and his music's affect on her, which occurred just as Braid found out she had gone deaf in one ear. Records include drafts, research on composers and composition, correspondence, book launch records, and reviews.
Series consists of interviews with people who knew Gould in a variety of capacities including piano tuner, musicians, and TV producer. All interviews were conducted by Braid.
Series consists of records relating to Braid's writing Emily Carr: Rebel Artist, a book for young readers on the famous Canadian artist. Records include drafts, correspondence, and research.
Fonds consists of records relating to Braid's work writing poems written from the perspectives of Georgia Okeeffe and Emily Carr. Originally entitled The String Bean and the Pea as her thesis submission for a Master of Fine Arts at UBC, the work was later retitled Inward from the Bones. Records include notes, drafts, comments from Sandy Shreve, Sharon Fowler and George McWhirter.
Series consists of records relating to Braid's work on the report, including transcripts administrative correspondence, drafts, and background research.
Series consists of records relating to production of the CBC Ideas program "Men of the Deep", about coal mining in Atlantic Canada. Records include correspondence, contract, research, and transcripts. Series also includes a subseries of audiocassettes of interviews with miners featured in the program.
Series consists of appointment calendars kept by Braid. The calendars document meetings with colleagues, friends, family, medical and other appointments, and other day-to-day events.
Series consists of correspondence, both letters and electronic mail (printed out) of Braid's vast and wide-ranging volume of communication with colleagues, publishers, editors, fellow writers, friends, family, and lovers. Series is arranged in 3 subseries: Business correspondence, Correspondence with writers, and Personal correspondence. After 2006 the Personal correspondence subseries also contains correspondence with writers.
Subseries includes correspondence with editors, publishers, bookstores, as well as invoices, and other administrative records, primarily relating to submitting poems, articles, or other writing for publication but also applications for grants and honoraria for poetry readings.
Series consists of letters and emails with fellow writers regarding a wide variety of writing-related issues, including reviewing others poems and having her poems reviewed. Correspondents include George McWhirter, Joy Kogawa, PK Page, Lynne Bowen, Patrick Lane, Lorna Crozier, Sandy Shreve, and a host of other fellow poets and mentors.
Subseries consists of personal correspondence with Braid's parents, siblings, friends and former lovers. In about 2006 the subseries also includes correspondence with fellow writers.
Series consists of Braid's valedictory address at Mt. Allison University in 1967, her graduation photograph, ad old passports.
Series consists of records relating to many different writing projects in which Braid was involved, including Poetry in Transit, Poetry Train, Prosody group, Sex Death and Madness writing group, League of Canadian poets, The Fish Come in Dancing, CBC Ideas, Victoria School of Writing, and the Vancouver Industrial Writers Union, among other projects.
Subseries consists of interviews for an SFU women's studies course on creative non-fiction taught by Braid in 2006.
Series consists of records relating to Braid's work on her book Turning Left to the Ladies. Records include drafts, correspondence with her publisher and editor, and drafts for the editor.
Series consists of records relating to Kate's prose memoir Journeywoman. The non-fiction account was originally conceived as a novel (featuring a carpenter named Kelly) but over the years evolved into a memoir. Records include drafts of the novel, drafts of the memoir, early edits, notes, and correspondence.
Series consists of daily diaries, notebooks, dream diaries, and travel diaries kept by Braid over a period of nearly 50 years. The diaries capture her reflections on various events in her life and in the world, the progress of her writing, and relationships with her family, friends, and others.
Series consists of drafts of Braid's writing, primarily of her poetry.
Series consists of project notes, invoices, correspondence related to Braid's company Sisters Construction, which later became Sisters Productions.
Series consists of publications in which Braid's writing has appeared.
Series consists of records relating to Braid's writing and publication of Covering Rough Ground, her book of poetry about her early years in construction, which won the Pat Lowther Award for Best Book of Poetry by a Canadian Woman. Records include correspondence with publisher and readers, reviews, drafts, and poetry drafts.
Series includes records related to writing and publishing To this Cedar Fountain, Braid's book of poetry written in response to Emily Carr's paintings, which was nominated for the Dorothy Livesay (BC) Poetry Prize. Records include corresondence from readers, publisher, book reviews, interviews with Braid, and rough drafts.
The Apiculture (beekeeping) collection is an artificial grouping of documentary materials relating to the methods, science and culture of beekeeping. The collection was established by the SFU Archives as a complement to its other holdings relating to apiculture, such as the fonds of the British Columbia Honey Producers' Association (F-147), and the papers of SFU faculty member Mark Winston (F-174). The collection consists of publications, conference proceedings, minutes, correspondence, photographs, and moving images. Material includes government publications, correspondence and registers of provincial beekeepers in British Columbia; published research articles, presentations and reports; course outlines and course material relating to the Bee Masters program and honey judging in British Columbia; photographs of various BC beekeeping activities and personalities; copies of meeting minutes and other records of various beekeeping associations in British Columbia and Canada; moving images featuring beekeeping activities and topics; and various subject files relating to the history of beekeeping in BC.
Series primarily comprises copies of records created by a number of associations currently or formerly active in the field of beekeeping. Records consist of association constitutions, meeting minutes, proceedings, newsletters, correspondence, and other documents. Series is arranged into 6 sub-series: 1. British Columbia Commercial Beekeepers Association 2. Canadian Association of Professional Apiculturalists 3. Canadian Beekeepers' Council 4. Fraser Valley Pollinators' Association 5. Provincial Apiarists' Association 6. Other associations
Sub-series primarily comprises copies of records of the annual meetings of the British Columbia Commercial Beekeepers Association. The Association was established around 1962 as an organization of individuals who draw their livelihood primarily from beekeeping or the sale of its products. Its objectives were to promote and develop markets and marketing methods for apiary products, inform members of developments in apiculture research, and participate in the Canadian Beekeepers' Council. The Association appears to have maintained a close relationship with the British Columbia Honey Producers' Association. It disbanded around 1980. Records in this sub-series consist of the Association's constitution, annual meeting minutes, newsletters, and original letterhead.
Sub-series comprises copies of records of the annual meetings of the Canadian Association of Professional Apiculturalists. The organization began as the Canadian Association of Apiarists but registered as a professional association in 1975 and changed its name to the current form in that year. It continues as an active organization. The Association promotes cooperation among professional apiculturalists working in agricultural administration, extension or research. Its members generally are employed by federal or provincial governments or universities. The Association maintains a consultative role in relation to the Canadian Honey Council and acts as a liaison with apiculturalists in other countries. Records in this sub-series consist of minutes and proceedings.
Sub-series comprises records documenting the activities of the Canadian Beekeepers' Council. The Council was established in 1939 to study problems relating to the marketing of bee products and to promote education and standards. Records consist of correspondence, reports, a pamphlet, and a programme.
Sub-series comprises copies of records of the meetings of the Fraser Valley Pollinators' Association. The Association was established in 1977 to promote pollination services offered by beekeepers to the growers of various crops, provide high service standards, and negotiate with growers on a group basis. The current status of the Association is not known. Records consist of meeting minutes.
Sub-series comprises copies of records of the meetings of the Provincial Apiarists' Association. The Association was established in 1952 as an organization of government apiary officials employed in provincial departments and ministries across Canada. It aimed to promote the scientific and practical efficiency of beekeeping, disseminate progressive ideas relating to apiculture, and secure cooperation among apiculturalists working in the country. The current status of the Association is not known. Records consist of proceedings of the Association's meetings in 1952 and 1958 and a 1959 report.
Sub-series comprises records created by other associations currently or formerly active in the field of beekeeping, including the Beekeepers Association of BC, the Surrey Beekeepers Association, and the Vancouver Island Beekeepers' Coalition. Records consist of newsletters, minutes, and other documents.
Series comprises documents relating to apicultural educational programs, training, and conferences. For types of records, see sub-series descriptions. Series is arranged into 3 sub-series: 1. General 2. Bee Masters Program 3. Honey judging
Sub-series comprises material relating to miscellaneous apicultural educational programs, training, and conferences. Documents consist of course material, proceedings, correspondence, reports and notes.
Sub-series comprises material relating to the Bee Masters program. Bee Masters is an intensive course in advanced beekeeping sponsored by the British Columbia ministry responsible for agriculture. The first course was held in 1955. Since around 1986, it has been held at Simon Fraser University and offered jointly by the BC government and SFU's Department of Biological Sciences. Early courses were lengthier to include a field trip to a beekeeping location, while later courses dropped the field trip component and thus shortened to five days in length. Documents include the first written examinations from 1955 and 1958, course outlines, lectures, articles, participant and speakers lists, evaluations, forms, correspondence, pamphlets, and other course material.
Sub-series comprises originals and copies of material relating to the history of honey judging and the courses developed to train honey judges in British Columbia. The need for honey judges grew out of the desire to promote honey and its uses at various exhibitions in BC, and in particular the Pacific National Exhibition at Vancouver and the Interior Provincial Exhibition at Armstrong. As early as the 1920s, a score card was developed to rank honey on a standardized scale and was used into the 1950s. The Canadian Beekeepers Council, established in the 1940s, also developed a score card allowing for the judging of honey at a national level. By the mid-1960s in BC, there was a demand for formally-trained honey judges, and a one day course was held in 1966 to teach, test, and certify the first group. Additional courses followed in 1975 and the 1980s. Certified honey judges continue to be an important part of exhibitions. Records include course materials, forms, notes, scoring sheets, correspondence, and other documents.
Series comprises publications, reports and correspondence of government departments and programs responsible for apiculture in their jurisdiction. Government departments represented primarily include the Department or Ministry of Agriculture for British Columbia, but also Canada, Ontario, and the United States. For types of records, see sub-series descriptions. Series is arranged into 6 sub-series: 1. British Columbia - beekeeper registers 2. British Columbia - correspondence 3. British Columbia - newsletters 4. British Columbia - publications and forms 5. British Columbia - reports 6. Other governments
Sub-series comprises beekeeper registers and lists showing names, addresses, location, district and number of hives maintained in BC and specific districts.
Sub-series comprises inward and outward correspondence by various government employees, including Harvey Boone (Apiary Inspector), John Corner (Provincial Apiarist), Doug McCutcheon (Apiary Specialist), and others, on various issues affecting BC apiculture and inspections. Records include correspondence, reports, and supporting documentation.
Sub-series comprises newsletters issued by the Apiary branch of the BC Department of Agriculture and later the BC Ministry of Agriculture. Records include Bee-Wise: Timely Hints on Beekeeping, the Apiary Branch Newsletter, and the Apiculture Newsletter.
Sub-series comprises publications, legislation, and forms issued or used by the BC Department of Agriculture and later by the BC Ministry of Agriculture, pertaining to apiculture-related topics and issues. Records include bulletins, circulars, pamphlets, publications, legislation, and blank forms.
Sub-series comprises reports issued by the Apiary or Apiculture branches of the BC Department or Ministry of Agriculture, including annual reports by the Provincial Apiarist. Of particular note is a 1919 report to the BC Deputy Minister of Agriculture on bee inspection work, which includes photographs and drawings. Records include original reports and copies.
Sub-series comprises records generated by government departments and programs responsible for apiculture in their jurisdiction, other than British Columbia. Government departments represented include the Departments of Agriculture for Canada, Ontario, and the United States. Records include publications and reports.
Series comprises miscellaneous publications relating to apiculture. Documents include booklets (including The Honey Flow, published in 1907), pamphlets, articles, reports, scholarly publications, bulletins, and catalogues.
Series comprises photographs primarily featuring BC beekeeping yards, personalities, exhibits, association meetings, and equipment, but also portrait photographs of former Dominion Apiarists Dr. T. Gochnaur, C. B. Gooderham, and F.W.L. Sladen.
File consists of 63 black and white, colour, and sepia tone photographs. The majority are original, but there are some copies. Most include annotations identifying content and dates. Personalities pictured include G. Fred Pearcey, W.H. Turnbull, C.F. Connor, Percy Hodgson, John Corner, among others. Locations featured include Armstrong, Creston, Kelowna, and Vernon. There are a number of images featuring honey exhibits from around the province. Of particular note is an original photograph from after 1924 that features W.J. Sheppard, A.W. Finlay, W. Harris, W.H. Turnbull, Alex Keir and F. Dundas Todd, all of whom worked for the BC Department of Agriculture.
Series comprises records created or collected by various individuals involved in the BC beekeeping field on a variety of apiculture-related topics and activities. Records consist of correspondence, newspaper clippings, publications, catalogues, a bound volume of clippings, and an original manuscript that includes photographs.
File represents a bound volume of newspaper clippings pertaining primarily to BC beekeeping history, but also to apiculture-related issues in general. Clippings are mainly from BC newspapers, but there are also some from other provinces and international sources. Leaves of the volume are labelled chronologically by year, but the 1940s and 1950s are grouped together. Clippings through the 1970s are sporadic. Up to the 1940s, newspaper clippings are affixed to the leaves with tape or adhesive. Thereafter, clippings are held loosely between the leaves and additional materials have been added including some correspondence, photographs, and pamphlets.
File consists of miscellaneous materials related to the history of beekeeping in BC collected by John Boone. Records include original beekeeping permits (for H.J. Minall and H.R. Bryett), pamphlets, catalogues, original correspondence to H.J. Minall, Apiary Branch annual reports, handwritten recollections by John Stawn (Vernon and Peace River areas), recollections by John Corner on post war beekeeping in BC, a BC Honey Producers Association brochure, beekeeping booklets from Alex Sacharoff (Terrace, BC) printed in Russian, and a booklet of transparencies featuring the anatomy of the honeybee.
Series comprises films featuring a variety of apiculture-related topics.
Item is a silent, colour film featuring the processing of honey from its transport by truck to the Bee Cee Honey plant through to canning and labelling by factory workers on assembly lines. School children and girl guides are shown entering the plant for tours. The Bee Cee Honey plant building includes a "Hodgson's Bee Supplies Ltd." sign suggesting it may have been filmed in New Westminster, BC, where Hodgson's was based at the time. One of the transport trucks shown in the film bears the slogan, "Another Load of Silverbow Honey." Silverbow is a Washington state-based honey company.
The Women's Bookstore collection consists of materials relating to the operation of several Vancouver women's organizations and reflects the issues that dominated the women's movement throughout the 1970s. Consistent with the community based nature of women's movements during this period, the scope and content of the collection reflects the diversity common to a phenomenon rather than the administrative and subject coherence found in records generated by a single organization. As such, the collection as whole gains its coherence due primarily to the interdependence rather than independence of the individual items to one another. This also applies to the records generated by autonomous organizations in the collection. While the different organizations should be regarded as distinct, a good deal of the records concern the communication between various organizations and women's groups across the country or identify issues of concern to a broad range of organizations. Thus, the collection as whole should be regarded as a record of a dynamic process in which a common ideology served to unify the aims of distinctive organizations, persons, and subjects. The collection is comprised of the records of the Women's Bookstore, Women's Caucus, A Woman's Place, Transition House, the British Columbia Federation of Women and the Morris and Helen Belkin Art Gallery. Includes constitutions, minutes, reports, correspondence, position papers, and sound recordings. Also includes newsletters from women's centres across British Columbia and Canada, subject files, and an assortment of feminist publications.
Series consists of those records relating directly to the Women's Bookstore. Includes correspondence, grant applications, in-house catalogs, and log books.
Series consists of records of the Vancouver Women's Caucus. The group began as the Women's Caucus at Simon Fraser University. In 1969 the group moved off-campus in order to reach a larger number of women. The activities of the caucus included demonstrations, discussions, and abortion counseling. It also dealt with issues such as jobs, education, and society's responsibility for children. In 1969 it founded the feminist newspaper, The Pedestal (later known as Women Can), and in 1970 it organized the Abortion Cavalcade/Caravan to Ottawa. Includes correspondence, minutes, articles and position papers.
Series consists of records of A Woman's Place Society, formed to establish and operate a house for women in Vancouver. The house was to provide a centre where women could meet to discuss issues and common problems, and to act together. The house would also serve as the focus for the development of several projects relating to childcare, health, information resources and legal aid. Includes constitution, correspondence, proposals, reports, logbooks, and newsletters.
Series consists of records relating to the Vancouver Transition House, and other transition houses in British Columbia. Transition houses were set up to offer a refuge for women and children forced to leave their homes due to violent and abusive situations. The goal of the transition houses was to secure the safety and health of the women and children in their care, and to ensure that they not return to unresolved and dangerous situations. Includes academic papers, articles, briefs, correspondence, minutes and publications.
Series consists of records of the British Columbia Federation of Women. The BCFW was an umbrella organization for women's groups in BC; its objective was to bring about women's liberation through fundamental social change. Includes reports from various sub-committees of the BCFW, such as the BC Association of Non-Status Women, Rights of Women in Prison, Rights of Lesbians, and others. Also includes the BCFW constitution, correspondence, newspapers, agendas, standing committee reports, newsletters, handbooks and an audio recording (on 8 audio cassettes) of a BCFW Standing Committee meeting in October 197[5].
Series consists of newsletters from various women's centres across Canada. Although diverse in scope, women's centres are similar in that they exist to provide services specifically for women. Included are newsletters from British Columbia women's centres in Aldergrove, North Vancouver, Port Coquitlam, Prince George, Richmond, Surrey, SFU, Vancouver, and Victoria. Includes newsletters from centres in Alberta, Ontario, New Brunswick, Saskatchewan, and the Yukon.
Series consists of files relating to a number of issues, activities, and areas of interest to the women's movement in North America. Files contain material on such diverse topics as birth control, socialism, pornography, rape and beauty pageants. Also includes files on organizations, groups, and movements in the fight for women's rights, such as the Younger Lesbian Association, Women Against the Budget, Vancouver Rape Relief, Concerned Citizens for Choice on Abortion, the Childcare Occupation Forces, and others. Includes articles, clippings, newsletters, academic papers, reports, posters, calendars, and ephemera.
Sub-series consists of reference files relating general subjects.
Sub-series consists of reference files relating feminist organizations. For list of organizations, see Access Points.
File consists of a press release, a set of telexes supporting the women (ca 50 pages), text of a speech by Flora MaDonald MP, and a wide-distribution letter from the Concerned Aboriginal Women addressed "To All Support Groups."
Series consists of a collection of feminist newspapers, journals, and newsletters documenting the women's movement in North America. Includes publications from British Columbia and the rest of Canada, the United States, and some examples from Australia, and England. Includes fairly extensive runs of issues of Kinesis (file 39, 1974-1987), Majority Report (file 47, 1973-1977), Off Our Backs (file 63, 1970-1980), and The Other Woman (file 67, 1972-1976).
Series consists of an audio recording of a January 10, 2018 panel discussion with nine former volunteers with the Vancouver Women's Bookstore. The panel was moderated by Alexandra Bischoff and Vincent Tao. It formed part of a reunion celebration held at the Morris and Helen Belkin Gallery on the evening before the opening of the exhibition Beginning with the Seventies: Glut, which exhibited Bischoff's "Rereading Room," a reconstruction of the Vancouver Women's Bookstore.
The following text quoted from Alexandra Bischoff's digital records transfer form dated August 20, 2018: This audio record was created on January 10, 2018 at the Morris and Helen Belkin Art Gallery - the day preceding the opening of the exhibition "Beginning with the Seventies: GLUT" (January 12 - April 8, 2018). For this exhibition, artist Alexandra Bischoff restaged the Vancouver Women's Bookstore as "Rereading Room," an interactive installation which includes a selection of the Bookstore's inaugural inventory. With the support of the Belkin Art Gallery, Bischoff held a reunion celebration with nine of the Bookstore's volunteers; this recording is from the reunion event. Interviewed participants include volunteers that were involved in the organization throughout three decades of its existence, and represent a range of feminist concerns and perspectives. Many, in fact, met for the first time on this occasion. The opinions expressed within the interview are the participants own and do not necessarily reflect the policy of each individual involved, the Vancouver Women's Bookstore at large, or the Belkin Art Gallery. Moderating the discussion with Bischoff is Vincent Tao, Librarian of Vancouver artist run centre 221A and Bischoff's collaborator and adviser for Rereading Room's first installation in 2016-17.
Fonds consists of records documenting the functions and activities of the Faculty Council. Fonds includes agendas, minutes, correspondence, policies and procedures, and other documents.
Fonds consists of records relating to the activities of the Joint Faculty and the Interim Council of Joint Faculty. Includes agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports, and other documents. Researchers should be aware that the records of Joint Faculty appear to be incomplete and that this fonds appears to have been partially created from the records of the Office of the President, the University Librarian, and the records of the Simon Fraser Student Society. The fonds consists of eight files.
The fonds is comprised of the records of Ariel Books and a number of subject files compiled or collected by Margo Dunn. Records reflect Margo Dunn's business interest as owner of Ariel Books, and her role as collector of the records of the Vancouver women's movement. Includes correspondence, financial records, log books, promotional material, catalogues, articles, clippings, manuscripts, artifacts, and ephemera.
Ariel Books first opened in 1974 as a private business focusing on books about women's spirituality, but switched to collective ownership and a more general feminist bookstore format circa 1975. In 1981, when the collective decided to sell the business, Margo Dunn and Janice Pentland-Smith purchased the store that was then located at 2766 West 4th Avenue in Vancouver. In 1983, Margo Dunn acquired her partner's shares and became the sole proprietor of Ariel Books. In 1991, Ariel Books moved to a larger space at 1988 West 4th Avenue, where it remained until it closed in 1994. Ariel Books was one of two feminist bookstores operating in Vancouver during this period; the other was the Women's Bookstore (in operation from 1973 to 1996). Indeed, Vancouver was the only city in North America that supported two feminist bookstores simultaneously for such a long period of time. Ariel Books specialized in books for women in such areas as feminist theory, politics, lesbian issues, violence against women, assertiveness, psychology, parenting, birth and midwifery, fiction and the like. Ariel Books also hosted readings by popular feminist writers, and acted as an essential resource for Vancouver women. Series consists of records that document the operation of Ariel Books from the period when Margo Dunn was owner of the store, although some records date to when the collective ran the store. Records reflect the purchase and organization of the business, daily logbooks, correspondence, events and general operational files. Includes sales contracts, financial records, correspondence, certificate of incorporation, inventories, catalogues, event flyers, promotional material and 2 fabric banners.
Sub-series consists of records that reflect the purchase of Ariel Books by Margo Dunn and Janice Pentland-Smith in 1981, Dunn's purchase of Pentland-Smith's shares in 1983, and other organizational and legal records. Includes registration of the business, sales agreement, conditional sales contract, financial statements, correspondence, resolutions, certificate of incorporation, and inventory lists.
Sub-series consists of logbooks that reflect the day to day activities of Ariel Books.
Sub-series consists of correspondence created and received by Ariel Books. Includes records that reflect daily business, special events, purchase and sale of stock, and donations made to various feminist organizations and causes.
Sub-series consists of records that reflect events at Ariel Books, and outside events attended by representatives of the store. Includes calendars, brochures, correspondence, and advertising.
Sub-series consists of records that reflect the operational activities of Ariel Books, such as applications for Canada Council Assistance for author readings, and donations to feminist organizations and causes. Includes correspondence, catalogues, promotional material, calendars, and artifacts.
Series consists of files that reflect a number of issues, activities, and areas of interest to the women's movement in North America. Files contain material on such diverse topics as unions, rape statistics, the British Columbia Federation of Women, the women's movement in Toronto and Berkeley, and feminist and homosexual periodicals. Includes correspondence, memoranda, newsletters, articles, reports, minutes, periodicals, publications, and posters.
Fonds consists of records created, received and collected in the process of publishing Makara magazine. Records reflect general operation, correspondence, production, and advertising. Includes correspondence, notes, distribution lists, articles, clippings, surveys, manuscripts, lay-out roughs, illustrations, press releases, contracts, promotional material and notes.
Series consists of operational files reflecting the general business activities of Makara magazine. Records reflect the development of editorial policy, distribution, contests, disputes with the post office, indexing, and subject files on International Women's Day. Includes correspondence, notes, distribution lists, articles, clippings, returned surveys, and contest entries.
Series consists of correspondence created and received by Makara magazine. Includes correspondence with contributors, rejection letters, subscription requests, and general correspondence.
Series consists of production records for individual volumes of Makara. Includes layout roughs, edited manuscripts, illustrations, and complete run of individual issues.
Series consists of production records for which the volume is not known. Includes layout roughs, edited manuscripts, and illustrations.
Series consists of advertising and promotional material of Makara itself and records of advertising in Makara by other businesses. Includes correspondence, press releases, ad mock-ups, contracts, notes and promotional material.
Fonds consists of records generated by the Women's Cultural Exchange in the process of establishing the society, finding a location, opening, and using the space to fulfill their mandate to provide a cultural centre for women. Records reflect the incorporation of the society, minutes of meetings, membership, events, and finances. Includes constitution, certificates of incorporation, minutes, agenda, correspondence, membership lists, account book, scrap book, and ephemera.
The fonds consists of records created, received and collected by the Simon Fraser Teachers' Union in carrying out its stated objectives. Includes the union's constitution, draft amendments to the constitution, correspondence, membership applications and cards, minutes, agenda, reports, financial records, memoranda, and newspaper clippings.
Fonds consists of records created, received, and collected by the Simon Fraser University Staff Association in carrying out its functional activities. Records reflect its constitution, executive and general meetings, social activities, benefits, newsletter, unionization and records of the membership chairman. Records include those collected from outside the fonds by a former archivist and those donated from other sources. Includes file lists, correspondence, memoranda, agenda, minutes, financial records, newsletter, bulletins, membership lists, posters, and a staff handbook.
Series consists of records created, received and collected by the Simon Fraser University Staff Association in carrying out its functional activities. Records reflect the Association's efforts to represent staff and advocate on their behalf. Also reflects communication with administration, involvement in university life, staff education, social and recreational activities, and the drive to achieve union certification. Includes file lists, constitution, correspondence, memoranda, financial records, agenda, newsletters, minutes of executive and general meetings, staff handbook, and salary proposals.
Series consists of records relating to membership in the Simon Fraser University Staff Association. Records reflect membership solicitations, remittance, and resignations. Includes membership lists, correspondence, and memoranda.
Series consists of records relating to the Simon Fraser University Staff Association collected by a former archivist or donated from other unknown sources. Records reflect membership, publications, and information relating to efforts to unionize staff at the university. Includes newsletter, bulletins, memoranda, correspondence, agenda, and posters.
The Facilities Management fonds consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the Department and the carrying out of its functions, which changed over time. The original responsibilities of the department included building the physical plant of the University, maintaining buildings and grounds, and providing support services such as food, traffic control, and security. Later, its functions were narrowed to the construction and maintenance of the physical plant and grounds. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, construction and maintenance of the University's physical plant and grounds, including land acquisition and liaison with outside consultants and bodies; and the planning and delivery of services to the University, including water and power, traffic, security, fire prevention, purchasing, bookstore operations, central stores, mail, and food. The types of documents include meeting agenda and minutes, certificates, contracts, correspondence, copies of deeds, legal releases, lists, maps, memoranda, architectural plans, reports, and design specification books.
Series consists of records relating to the broad mandate of Facilities Management and its many activities, including the planning, construction and maintenance of physical plant and grounds, and the planning and delivery of services to the University. It includes meeting agenda and minutes, certificates, contracts, correspondence, copies of deeds, lists, maps, memoranda, plans, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to two cases of litigation in which Facilities Management was involved. It includes correspondence, engineering reports, pleadings and legal releases, specification books, and testimony and supporting documents.
Series consists of records relating to the operations, policies and procedures of Facilities Management, including committee meetings, the delivery of ancillary services, and the design and construction of buildings and grounds. It includes agenda and minutes of meetings, certificates, contracts, correspondence, drawings, memoranda, and annual and other reports.
Series consists of the construction records of Concordia Management, the project managers for the construction of the University's Multipurpose Complex. It includes correspondence and construction documents such as contracts, change and variation orders, progress reports, site minutes, and deficiency lists.
Series consists of records relating to the construction of buildings on campus. Records include bound design reports, university maps, maps from the City of Burnaby, and architectural plans and drawings.
Collection consists of records reflecting the administration, organization and activities of AUCE #2 as well as AUCE's provincial organization. Includes constitution, by-laws, articles of agreement, contracts, financial statements, reports, correspondence, memoranda, ephemera, newsletters, handbooks, and bulletins.
Series consists of records relating to the administration and organization of the Association of University and College Employees, Local #2. Records reflect AUCE's executive and general meetings, elections, financial statements, and various committees such as the strike support committee and the grievance committee. Includes constitution, by-laws, articles of agreement, contracts, reports, minutes of meetings, correspondence, financial records, memoranda, and ephemera.
Series consists of correspondence, memoranda and ephemera created and disseminated by the Association of University and College Employees. Records reflect a wide range of subjects relevant to the union, including labour disputes, salaries, union affiliation, contract negotiations, and the like.
Series consists of records reflecting AUCE's Provincial organization. Includes convention agenda, Provincial candidates' statements, resolutions, newsletters and ephemera.
Series consists of various publications from AUCE. Includes newsletters, handbooks, and bulletins.
Fonds consists of one file reflecting Michael Irwin's attempts to reclassify his position, and his bid to obtain union certification for theatre employees. Includes correspondence, memoranda and newspaper clippings.
Fonds consists of records accumulated by Heather Raven in her involvement with AUCE #2. Includes memoranda, correspondence, contracts, agenda, and minutes.
Fonds consists of records made or received by the Association in the course of its activities. Activities documented include incorporation; meetings of the Annual General Meeting and various committees; maintenance of membership; financial management, budget planning, and grant applications; correspondence with member centres, regional representatives, government ministries and agencies, and other organizations; and development of a training strategy ("Planning for Change") and other projects. Records include correspondence, reports, meeting minutes and supporting papers, policies and procedures, financial records, agreements, published materials retained for reference, and notes, drafts and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the establishment, structure and governance of the Association. Activities documented include incorporation, policy development, and liaison with the provincial Ministry of Women's Equality. Records includes certificate of incorporation, constitutions, policies and procedures, and correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to various meetings associated with the organization. Activities documented include Annual General Meetings; the meetings of several committees, including the Steering Committee, Negotiating Committee, and Coordinating Collective; and meetings of women's centres from across BC / Yukon. Records include minutes, agendas, correspondence, reports, notes and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the participation of member organizations in the BC and Yukon Association of Women's Centres. Records include membership forms, directories and lists, correspondence, and certificates of membership.
Series consists of records relating to the Association's management of its financial resources. Activities documented include applying for grants, budgeting, preparing financial statements and tax returns, reporting to funding agencies, and financial auditing. Records include grant applications, income tax returns, financial statements, ledgers, correspondence, reports, agreements, and contracts.
Series consists of records relating to the day-to-day operations of the BC and Yukon Association of Women's Centres. Activities documented include meetings of the Steering Committee and Coordinating Collective, financial accounting, grants management, project planning, policy development, liaison with the BC and federal governments, political activism, and reporting news from individual women's centres. Because of the informal record-keeping of the Association, the files contain other document types besides letters sent and received. Records also include minutes, agendas, invoices, vouchers, bills, financial statements, forms, news releases, newsletters, reports, briefs, position papers, project proposals, drafts, working papers and notes.
Series consists primarily of records relating to the Planning for Change training strategy, but also contains files relating to a few other smaller projects undertaken by the Association. Records include correspondence, proposals, contracts, letters of agreement, meeting agendas and minutes, briefs, reports, reprints, financial statements, drafts, notes, and working papers.
The fonds consists of records made and received by Tom Mallinson in his role as a professor and as a consultant for outside organizations. Includes correspondence, lectures and publications.
Series consists of correspondence relating to Tom Mallinson's professional interests as a psychologist at the University of Toronto and his academic career as a professor of Communications Studies at SFU. Also includes a file containing correspondence and drafts for a proposed book of reminiscences about the early history of the SFU.
Series consists of lectures, publications, correspondence and other records relating to Tom Mallinson's research projects and outside consultations. Includes samples of Mallinson's curriculum vitae.
Fonds consists of records made and received by Elinor Ames. Correspondence consists of two files concerning the hiring of Dr. Ames, negotiations about the renewal of her contract, and her concerns about the administration of the Psychology Department. Other files contain samples of departmental publications and course materials such as exams.
Fonds consists of records reflecting the academic and personal interests of Maggie Benston. The fonds is arranged in 5 series: Research files, Women's Caucus, Subject files, Publications, and Personal documents.
Series consists of records relating to Maggie Benston's research interests on feminist topics including her seminal paper, "On the Political Economy of Women's Liberation." Includes correspondence regarding the publication of this paper, drafts of the paper, manuscript notes for a follow-up article and book, daily notebooks and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the history, organization, and activities of the Vancouver Women's Caucus. This group, which started at Simon Fraser University in 1968, moved off campus in 1969 in order to focus on broader community interests. Most active until 1971, the group eventually divided into issue oriented organizations. Includes minutes, membership lists, discussion papers and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to Maggie Benston's many personal and professional interests such as the women's movement, environmental issues and socialism. Includes publications, reports, clippings and other documents.
Series consists of various publications relating to women's issues as collected by Margaret Benston. See item list for complete list of all periodicals.
Series consists of Benston's personal correspondence with relatives, Louis Feldhammer, as well as information regarding a libel suit and salary pay scales from 1966.
The fonds consists of records arising from Dunham's teaching and research activities. Includes lecture and research notes, course outlines, exams and study questions, reading lists, reprints, essays and other writing by Dunham, and a few pieces of correspondence regarding Dunham's career and projects.
Fonds consists primarily of records made or received by F. Margaret Hayward in her role as director of the Reading and Study Centre at SFU. Includes reading and study course materials developed for the Centre, a survey of reading and study programs across Canada, correspondence relating to Hayward's appointment and work at the Centre, an oral history of F. Margaret Hayward recorded by Letty Wilson, former administrator at SFU, and a photograph of the opening ceremonies at SFU.
Fonds consists of records relating to a dispute between SFU's administration and the Political Science, Sociology, and Anthropology Department. In July 1969 SFU President Kenneth Strand placed the PSA Department under trusteeship. In September eight faculty members and a number of students went on strike. Strand suspended the faculty members with pay and informed them of their right to appeal. One faculty member, Nathan Popkin, asked for a separate hearing because, although he was technically "on strike," he conducted classes in his home. Mike Lebowitz agreed to act as his counsel before the appeal committee chaired by UBC economist Gideon Rosenbluth. The Rosenbluth Committee concluded that there was no cause for dismissal. The university reinstated Popkin only to allow his contract to expire the following year. Fonds consists of correspondence, minutes, transcripts, agendas, notes, schedules, procedural rules, chronologies, reports, constitutions, petitions, news clippings, and other documents. While Lebowitz acquired the papers for Popkin's defense, there is considerable material relating to the other professors who went on strike.
Series consists of records relating to the administrative crisis in the PSA Department, the establishment of a trusteeship by the University, and the strike by eight faculty members of the PSA Department. Includes correspondence, reports, notes, statements, press releases and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to meetings within the PSA Department and between the department and other University units. Includes minutes, transcripts, agendas and other documents.
Series consists primarily of records relating to the suspension hearings for Nathan Popkin. Also contains some records relating to suspension hearings for Kathleen Aberle, Louis Feldhammer, John Leggett, and Prudence Wheeldon, as well as records relating to the appeal for non-renewal of contract for Tom Brose and Gerald Sperling. Includes handwritten notes made during the Popkin hearing, schedules, procedural rules, chronologies, statements, transcripts, and other documents.
Series consists of records providing background information about the PSA dispute and miscellaneous documents created in the course of the dispute. Includes reports, constitutions, petitions, news clippings, and other documents.
The fonds of the Department of Geography consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, an external review, faculty files, memoranda, minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to Department policies and procedures, and includes a draft Constitution.
Series consists of correspondence received and sent by the Department Chair. It includes memoranda and reports.
Series consists of files related to the appointment of faculty members. It includes correspondence, curricula vitae, memoranda and reports.
Series consists of the records of various departmental committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, minutes of meetings, and memoranda.
Series consists of materials relating to a Departmental review committee. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of files of undergraduate course outlines and examinations.
Series consists of departmental publications, including course offerings booklets.
Fonds consists of four files reflecting Tom Brose's activities at SFU. Includes correspondence, memoranda, surveys, agendas, minutes and other documents. Also includes an additional file reflecting the interests and activities of a PSA colleague, John Leggett, who may have left the file with Brose when Leggett left the University.
Norman Swartz joined the Department of Philosophy at SFU in 1967 and retired as Professor Emeritus in 1998. During Swartz's early years at SFU, the Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology Department was in academic and administrative turmoil, which culminated in the Department being placed under trusteeship by the University administration and eight faculty members going on strike. Various faculty members, administrators and students produced documents to support their points of view during the PSA crisis. As he explained in his autobiographical notes, Swartz collected all of the PSA material that circulated around the University and that reached his desk from 1969 to 1970. Collection includes correspondence, memoranda, newspaper clippings and other documents related to the ongoing events in the PSA Department at this time.
James W. Wilson was a Professor of Geography at SFU, who had served as the first executive director of the Lower Mainland Regional Planning Board and a relocation planner for the Columbia River Power Project in B.C. Collection consists of records and publications collected by James W. Wilson concerning the work of the Lower Mainland Regional Planning Board. Also includes materials about the resettlement project that B.C. Hydro carried out during the Columbia River Project. Includes personal memoirs written by Dr. Wilson as well as annual reports, minutes, newsletters, essays, correspondence, notes, books, surveys, newspaper clippings, and photographs.
James Wilson served as the first executive director of the Lower Mainland Regional Planning Board for thirteen years (1951-1964) The Board was one of the first regional planning authorities in Canada and paved the way for further Canadian work in this field. Includes Wilson's personal memoir, "The Lower Mainland's Regional Plan: A Retrospective Introduction," as well as reports, correspondence, minutes, publications and other documents.
Wilson worked for B.C. Hydro for two years (1964-1966) as the relocation planner on the Columbia River Power Project. He helped to establish new communities for the people of the Arrow Lakes region who were displaced by the project. Includes Wilson's personal memoir, "The Columbia River Development: Looking After People in the Way," as well as correspondence, publications, other documents, and photographs.
The fonds consists primarily of records relating to the business activities of Press Gang Printers; it also includes some records arising from the collective's participation in the British Columbia Federation of Women. Activities and events documented include incorporation, the evolution of Press Gang's organizational structure, and the separation of the printing and publishing operations; collective and committee meetings; administration and unionization; financial management, grant and loan applications, and fundraising; liaison with other organizations in the women's movement and in other social movements; production and press work; marketing and promotion; and the financial difficulties leading to the closure of Press Gang in 1993. Record types includes articles of incorporation; correspondence and reports; meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers; collective agreements; photographs; ledgers, financial statements, income tax returns, and annual reports; printing samples (newsletters, newspapers, leaflets, brochures, posters, cards and other graphical material); production logbooks and customer accounts; and a Press Gang quilt.
Series consists of records relating to the internal organization of Press Gang Printers. Activities, events and topics documented include incorporation, the separation of the printing and publishing collectives, collective structure and history, office administration, and unionization. Records include correspondence, reports, articles and papers, resolutions, licenses, photographs, logbooks, and agreements.
6 negatives; 15 photos.
4 negatives; 20 photos.
Series consists of records relating to meetings of the Press Gang Printers collective and its committees, including general staff meetings, general collective meetings, business meetings, and meetings of the Finance Committee, Sales Committee, Ladies Auxiliary, and the Publishing Collective before its separation from the Printers. Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports, financial statements, planning documents and other supporting papers.
Series consists of records relating to the management of Press Gang Printers' finances. Activities, events and topics documented include accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, grant and loan applications, income and sales tax, analyses of Press Gang's finances, and the sale of assets to the publishing collective on separation. Records include journals, ledgers and ledger cards; correspondence, reports and financial statements; application forms and agreements; and income tax returns.
Series consists of records relating to Press Gang Printers' involvement in feminist and other social movements. Activities, events and topics documented include abortion, lesbian rights, unionism, political correspondence and letters of support, conferences, and liaison with other organizations. Records include correspondence, reports and photographs; reference material collected by Press Gang, including publications, newspapers, newsletters, and brochures; conference material; and notes and other working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the printing operations of Press Gang Printers. Activities, events and topics documented include job tracking (by date and by client), management of equipment, printing policies and rates, and training. Records include registers and log books, customer cards, correspondence, reports, training grant applications and other forms, and a presentation on offset lithography.
Press Gang Printers kept a sample copy of virtually all materials that it printed. This series consists of the retained samples and includes buttons, cards, calendars, stickers, leaflets and brochures, newsletters, newspapers, booklets and other publications, and posters.
Sub-series consists of sample copies of buttons, cards, calendars, and stickers printed by Press Gang Printers.
Sub-series consists of sample copies of leaflets and brochures printed by Press Gang Printers.
15 photographs
Sub-series consists of sample copies of posters printed by Press Gang Printers.
Sub-series consists of sample copies of newsletters, newspapers, booklets and other publications printed by Press Gang Printers.
Print copy of a Greenpeace information sheet entitled "Dioxins, Furans and PCBs: The True Story".
Series consists of records relating to Press Gang Printer's promotion, marketing and fundraising activities. Activities, events and topics documented include advertising, fundraising events and auctions. Records include advertising copy, promotional material, correspondence, and donation records.
This series consists of records relating to Press Gang Printer's participation in the BCFW as a member organization. Activities, events and topics documented include policy development, meetings of the Coordinating Collective, committees, and the Lower Mainland Region section, BCFW conventions, and liaison with other member groups. Records include correspondence, agendas, meeting minutes and supporting papers, conference material, publications and other reference material, grant applications, and briefs and reports.
In 1995, Terry Spurgeon was an Honours student in Archaeology at SFU, and past president of the Archaeological Society of British Columbia. He interviewed Roy Carlson on the occasion of Dr. Carlson's retirement from SFU that year. Dr. Carlson was a charter faculty member in the Department of Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology. He played a pivotal role in establishing a separate Department of Archaeology. The collection consists of Terry Spurgeon's interview of Dr. Carlson including audiocassettes, and a transcript. Also includes the fall 1995 issue of The Midden, published in honour of Dr. Carlson, and for which Terry Spurgeon served as guest editor.
Interview of Roy Carlson by Terry Spurgeon, recorded in Carlson's office at SFU just before his retirement. Topics covered include Carlson's personal experience in archaeology, the genesis of the SFU department, and the future of archaeology.
Peter Stursberg was a journalist who interviewed Pauline Jewett for his book on Lester B. Pearson. Dr. Jewett was President of SFU from 1974 to 1978. She was a former university professor and a member of Parliament. The collection consists of 2 audio cassettes and the transcript of the interview.
Journalist Peter Stursberg interviewed Hugh Keenleyside as part of an oral history project for the Parliamentary Library and the National Archives of Canada. Dr. Keenleyside was a former chair of the B.C. Power Commission and played an important role in the development of hydroelectric power in B.C. The collection consists of three files containing the complete transcripts of two interviews.
Collection consists of an interview (audio recording and transcript) of Dr. Kenneth Strand by Gordon Hardy. Strand was Acting President of Simon Fraser University from August 1968 to September 1969, and was President of the University from September 8, 1969 to September 1974. Gordon Hardy is a former student of Simon Fraser University. Mr. Hardy first interviewed Dr. Strand for the "The Peak" when Dr. Strand was named Acting President in 1968. The present interview was conducted in 1977 for the SFU Alumni Magazine, "Afterthoughts." The interview is on Side A of the cassette tape. It is approximately 45 minutes long. Unfortunately the interview ends rather abruptly in mid-sentence, because the tape ended. Side B of the tape contains a short (about 10 minutes) interview of Gordon Hardy by the Library Assistant for Archives. This interview provides some background on Mr. Hardy's interview with Dr. Strand. Both interviews were conducted in offices, and consequently the background noise and interruptions detract from the interview. The transcript of the interview is available.
The fonds of the Department of Languages, Literatures and Linguistics consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, annual reports, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, faculty files, memoranda, minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to committees and the different programs offered by the Department. It includes meeting agenda and minutes, correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the administration of the Department, including budgeting, staffing, and policy formulation. It includes annual reports, constitutions, correspondence, course outlines and schedules, memoranda, policies and procedures, press releases, and reports.
Series consists of records related to the appointment of faculty members. It includes case files, correspondence, curricula vitae, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of the records relating to the relationship of the Department with the Faculty of Arts. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the relationship of the Department with interdisciplinary programs and other departments of the University, including the Computing Centre, Continuing Studies, and the Distance Education program. The series includes correspondence, memoranda and reports.
Series consists of records relating to student participation in departmental administration and student ethics. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the French Exchange program and the Committee on Language Articulation, and includes correspondence of the Chair of the Department. The series includes memoranda and reports.
Series consists of the Chair's correspondence relating to the administration of language programs. Records include correspondence and course and program proposals.
Series consists of course outlines for German, Chinese, Hindi, Italian and Latin. Series also include copies of examinations for French, German, Russian, and Spanish courses.
The files include Dr. Ellis's notes on numerous interviews, background research, and the correspondence which accumulated in the preparation of the report as well as a briefly annotated copy of the report itself.
Fonds consists of records made and received by Cliff Lloyd in his role as a professor. Includes correspondence, publications, research proposals, course materials and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to Lloyd's proposed Northern Stores project, for which he never received funding. The project is described in the Saturday Night article available in the hard copy finding aid. Includes correspondence, grant applications, questionnaires and other documents.
Series consists of files relating to Lloyd's teaching and research activities. Includes published and unpublished papers, notes, correspondence, and course-related material such class outlines and exams.
The fonds consists of records made or received by the WDCAG and reflect the administration and operation of the organization. Includes correspondence, minutes, reports, newsletters and publications, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the administration and operation of the WDCAG. Includes minutes, reports, correspondence, and other documents.
Series consists of letters written or received by the officers of the WDCAG on behalf of the organization.
Series consists of records relating to the annual meetings of the UDCAG. Includes minutes, programs, abstracts, presented papers and other documents.
Series consists of the official newsletter of the Division as well as publications dealing with geographical research in western Canada.
From 1979-1981 the University Archives collected historical information on the Indo-Canadian Community in British Columbia with a view towards acquiring records in this area. The Archives prepared a bibliography, and made copies of relevant material. According to Professor Hugh Johnston, the collection contains a fairly complete set of all articles written up to 1980 about Indo-Canadians in BC. The Archives also acquired some photographs from the community. Since the conclusion of the project, the Archives has shifted its primary acquisition focus away from ethnic collections. Collection consists of photocopied magazine articles, theses, books, reports, newspaper clippings and other secondary sources about Indo-Canadians. The information is primarily about the Sikh community, but there is also some material on Hindu immigrants. There is one file of photographic prints and negatives. Collection also contains one file of correspondence with Ray Hundle, who corresponded with the University Archives regarding his research on the possible establishment of a Sikh temple in Golden, BC in 1880. Material is in Punjabi and English.
The fonds comprises records made or received in the course of administering the BCHPA's central and divisional organizations and carrying out their functions and programs. Most of the records originated with the Central Executive. Activities documented include board, committee and general members' meetings; correspondence of BCHPA officers; management of Association finances; evolution of the BCHPA constitution, by-laws and organizational structure; advice to governments and intervention in public policy debates relating to apiculture; production of the Association's newsletter; development of beekeeping educational programs and seminars; and participation in markets, exhibits and fairs. Records include constitution and by-laws; meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers; correspondence; reports and briefs; cash books; grant applications and proposals; copies of the Association newsletter; and course outlines and teaching material.
Series comprises records made or received by the Association's central organizations relating to Association-wide business. Activities documented include annual general meetings, meetings of the Central Executive and committees; revisions to the Association's constitution and organizational structure; financial management of Association funds; liaison with Divisions, government, and other organizations; production of the Association newsletter; development of educational initiatives; interventions in public-policy debates; participation in public fairs, markets and exhibits; and the administration of membership and the Boone Hodgson Wilkinson Trust Fund. For types of records, see sub-series descriptions. Series is arranged into 8 sub-series: 1. Correspondence 2. Financial records 3. Meeting minutes 4. Newsletters 5. Organization records 6. Projects and activities files 7. Membership records 8. Boone Hodgson Wilkinson Trust Fund records
Sub-series comprises correspondence conducted by Association officers with the Executive, members, Divisions, provincial and federal government ministries and agencies, and with other bee-related organizations and individuals. Records primarily include correspondence, but also include reports, newsletters, minutes, drafts, and other supporting documents.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the management of the BCHPA's financial resources. Activities documented include accounts management; grant proposals and applications; and some financial administration of the Association's Boone, Hodgson, Wilkinson Trust Fund, established in 1965 to support beekeeping research and education. Records consist of a cashbook from 1955, grant applications, correspondence and reports.
Sub-series comprises minutes of meetings of the BCHPA, including Central Executive, annual general meetings and semi-annual meetings. Some files from the 1990s and 2000s also include inward and outward Executive correspondence on meetings and topical issues, as well as "Executive Doings," a circular sent to Divisions and affiliates. Records consist of minutes, resolutions, programs, correspondence, reports, and meeting support papers.
Sub-series comprises copies of the Association's newsletter. In 1968 one issue appeared, called Bee Cee Bees. There is a gap in the series until 1979, by which time the newsletter was appearing quarterly, edited by Allan King, and called simply the BCHPA Newsletter. In 1985 the newsletter was re-launched as a new quarterly publication under the name BeeScene. It continues to be published in this form.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the governance and structure of the BCHPA as an organization. Activities documented include revisions to the constitution and by-laws, development of policies and procedures, and awarding of honorary life-memberships. Records include constitution and by-laws, correspondence, reports, annotated drafts, procedures, and policy manuals.
Sub-series comprises records relating to projects and activities undertaken by the BCHPA according to its mandate and functions. Activities documented include the work of the Bee Forage Committee and the Education Committee; participation in educational programs, including the Malaspina College Apiculture program and a Tracheal Mite seminar; reports to the provincial Minister; promotions and exhibits, including participation in the Granville Island Public Market; production of a honey cookbook; advocacy and projects in formal and informal partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture, including the BC Honeybee Stock Improvement Project and revisions to the Bee Act; and the early exploration of the possibility of commercial production of mead in BC. Records include correspondence, briefs and reports, drafts, minutes, brochures, and course-related material.
Item is a recording of a meeting of the Shuswap Beekeepers Association held at Salmon Arm, BC on February 21, 1991. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss nine questions posed to all BCHPA Divisions, Associations, and other BC beekeepers by the BCHPA Bee Act Committee. The Committee was struck as an informal group to assist in the formulation and direction of revisions to be applied to the BC Bee Act by the Ministry. The recording begins mid-discussion at the start of side 1. In addition to input from Paul van Westendorp, the BC Provincial Apiarist, questions and comments arise from the members as the discussion around the nine questions ensues. Questions and concerns raised by the audience are not always fully clear, but van Westendorp's responses are. There is also the occasional sound of movement and disruption to the recording mic. The meeting adjourns halfway through side 1, and the recording cuts to a presentation by van Westendorp on tracheal mites and the BC Policy on Movement of Bees as they pertain to the question of quarantine areas, a question posed by the Bee Act Committee. Van Westendorp takes questions from the audience, and his talk continues onto side 2. The talk comes to a close approximately 2 minutes before the end of the second side. A summary of the Association's decisions on the nine questions are included on the file.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the administration of BCHPA membership. Records include lists, directories, forms, and correspondence.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the history, development, and administration of the Boone Hodgson Wilkinson Trust Fund. The BHW Trust Fund was established by BC Provincial Apiarist John Corner at the BCHPA's annual general meeting in 1965. The aim of the Fund was to provide opportunities for the study of apiculture at BC post-secondary institutions. The Trust was named for Harvey Boone, Percy Hodgson, and George Wilkinson, who had each contributed significantly to apiculture and beekeepers in BC. All three men, along with Leo Fuhr of Vernon, were appointed by BCHPA members as the first trustees of the Fund. The aims of the BHW Trust Fund have ultimately grown to include not only the support of apiculture education, but research as well. Records include correspondence, proposals, reports, financial statements, and supporting documents.
Series comprises records made or received by the Greater Vancouver Division of the BCHPA. The Greater Vancouver Division joined the Association in 1931, as the remnant of the former Beekeepers Association of British Columbia, originally founded in 1916 and from which the BCHPA split in 1920. Activities documented include Division meetings and management of Division finances. Records consist of minutes and a register of accounts book.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the management of the Greater Vancouver Division's finances. Records consist of a register of accounts book.
Sub-series comprises minutes of the Greater Vancouver Division, including annual meetings and directors' meetings.
Series comprises records made or received by the Capital Region Division of the BCHPA. Activities documented include Division meetings, management of Division finances, and communications. Records consist of correspondence, financial statements, meeting minutes, and newsletters.
Sub-series comprises correspondence conducted by Division officers with members, provincial and federal government ministries and agencies, and with other bee-related organizations and individuals.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the management of the Capital Region Divison's financial resources. Records consist of financial statements, ledger pages, correspondence and other documents.
Sub-series comprises minutes of the Capital Region Division, including annual meetings, executive committee meetings and general meetings.
Sub-series comprises "Beeline," the newsletter of the Capital Region Division.
Series comprises records made or received by the Chilliwack Division of the BCHPA. Records consist of correspondence, meeting minutes, and newsletters.
Sub-series comprises correspondence conducted by Division officers with members, provincial and federal government ministries and agencies, and with other bee-related organizations and individuals.
Sub-series comprises minutes of the Chilliwack Division, including annual meetings and executive committee meetings.
Sub-series comprises "Beeswack," the newsletter of the Chilliwack Division.
Series comprises records made or received by the Fraser Valley Division of the BCHPA. Records consist of correspondence, meeting minutes, and newsletters.
Sub-series comprises correspondence conducted by Division officers with members, provincial and federal government ministries and agencies, and with other bee-related organizations and individuals.
Sub-series comprises minutes of the annual meetings of the Fraser Valley Division.
Sub-series comprises "The Fraser Valley Beekeeper," the newsletter of the Fraser Valley Division.
Series comprises records made or received by the Vancouver Island Division of the BCHPA. Records include minutes and notices.
Series comprises records made or received by the BC Commercial Beekeepers' Association. Records consist of correspondence and meeting minutes.
Sub-series comprises correspondence conducted by Association officers with members, provincial and federal government ministries and agencies, and with other bee-related organizations and individuals.
Sub-series comprises minutes of the semi-annual and annual meetings of the BC Commercial Beekeepers' Association.
Series comprises records from various sources on a variety of topics of interest to the BCHPA. Records include annual reports, correspondence, lecture notes, publications, membership lists and other documents.
File consists of three black and white photographs. Personalities pictured include Harvey Boone, John Stann, Lew Truscott, Ed Shinkle, George Reed, George Wilkinson, Professor Harris, Professor Townsend, John Corner and Mr. Conner.
Series comprises records made or received by the Association's Divisions and other associations considering affiliation with the BCHPA. Records include correspondence, minutes, newsletters, and other documents.
The collection consists of audio cassette recordings of the interviews and associated paper documentation (biographical forms and interview summaries) for each of the women who participated. Twelve women were interviewed. The names of the interviewers and interviewees are: * Beverly Ann Carlson interviewed by Anda Jones. * Bertha Cochrane interviewed by Linda Henderson. * Suzanne Crawford interviewed by Pat Newton. * Kathleen Dawson interviewed by Linda Cluelett. * Ann St. Clair Ecclestone inteviewed by Jane Ecclestone. * Jean Ferguson interviewed by Marsha Ferguson. * Melitha Rose Kraus interviewed by Laurie Doig. * Patricia Mazzarella Larson interviewed by Angela M. Larson. * Violet Piersma interviewed by Peter van Drongelen. * Florence Vilma Shannon; interviewer not recorded. * Miyako Shinkawa interviewed by Debbie Shinkawa. * Ilo Urquart; interviewer not recorded. Note that there is no paper documentation for one of the interviewees (Ilo Urquart).
Series consists of the paper documentation associated with each interview subject. Records consist of biographical forms and oral history interview summaries. The biographical form captures the participant's personal data including information relating to the subject's occupation, places lived, education and employment history, parents, spouses, children. The oral history interview summary forms were prepared by the interviewers to summarize the contents of each cassette tape.
Series consists of the audio recordings of the interviews. Note that there were originally three cassettes for Ann Ecclestone, but on the request of the interviewee only two of these were included in the transfer of material to the Archives.
The fonds of the SFU Childcare Society consists of records made or received in the course of administering the Society and its predecessor bodies and providing facilities, personnel and funding for childcare programs. The bulk of the material ranges from 1968 to the early 1990s. Activities documented include meetings of the various societies and centres established to provide childcare services; obtaining license agreements with the University; securing collective agreements with staff; planning for child care services; construction of buildings; correspondence and liaison with government officials and university administrators; and providing information to parents and staff.
Series consists of records relating to the structure and governance of the SFU Childcare Centre and its constituent bodies over time.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the evolution of the various umbrella societies responsible for childcare at SFU. Includes reports by various committees and task forces about the future of childcare at the University, a 1970 childcare survey, files relating to the construction of the Childcare Centre in 1976, and one file related to general funding issues. Records consist of minutes, constitutions, license agreements with the University, membership agreements, collective agreements, job descriptions, and financial statements.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the development, organization, and administration of the various programs (centres) which were established over the years to provide childcare at SFU. Records consists of minutes, constitutions, license agreements with the University, membership agreements, collective agreements, job descriptions, and financial statements.
Series consists of correspondence between the various SFU childcare societies and provincial, federal and municipal governments; university administrative officials; and the University president and Board of Governors.
Series consists mostly of publications related to childcare at SFU. Also includes two files of general reference material about childcare in other places. Records consist of newsclippings, newsletters, brochures, parent and staff handbooks, and other documents.
Series consists of 23 black and white photographs of the interior and exterior of the SFU Child Care Centre depicting the building, children, and staff members.
Series consists of a set of six sound recording originally on audio cassette. Four of the recordings are interviews with former Executive Directors and the present Executive Director on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of childcare at SFU. The remaining sound recordings are copies of radio interviews by broadcaster Rafe Mair with Sheila Davidson and Social Services Minister Lois Boone about the social services strike in 1999.
Joyce Branscombe, Executive Director 1984-1987, interviewed by Tracy Dyke and Sheila Davidson. Topics include a discussion of her work and accomplishments, changes in childcare, and the 30th anniversary of childcare at SFU.
Emily Campbell, first Executive Director of Child Care (1974-1984), interviewed by Tracy Dyke and Sheila Davidson. Topics include discussion of her work and accomplishments, changes in child care, and the 30th anniversary of child care at SFU.
Penny Coates, Executive Director 1987-1991, interviewed by Tracy Dyke and Sheila Davidson. Topics include discussion of her work and accomplishments, changes in child care, and the 30th anniversary of child care at SFU.
Sheila Davidson, Executive Director 1991‚Äì, interviewed by Tracy Dyke. Topics include discussion of her work and accomplishments, changes in child care, and the 30th anniversary of child care at SFU.
Recording of the Rafe Mair Show broadcast on radio CKNW on Wednesday May 19, 1999. Includes an interview of Sheila Davidson by Rafe Mair re: social service strike.
Recording of the Rafe Mair Show broadcast on radio CKNW on May 12, 1999. Includes interview of Social Services Minister Lois Boone by Rafe Mair re: social services strike.
The fonds of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; course evaluations; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, an external review, faculty files, memoranda, minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of memoranda between the Department Chair, the Dean of Science, and Vice-President, Academic concerning budget allocations of the Department.
Series consists of the records of departmental committees. It includes agenda, minutes, correspondence, reports and associated papers.
Series consists of correspondence relating to various Faculty of Science committees.
Series consists of records relating to University committees on which the Chair or other Department faculty members sat. It includes correspondence, reports and minutes.
Series consists of records relating to courses and programs offered by the Department.
This series consists of records of meetings of the Department, and includes correspondence and printed materials.
Series consists of records relating to the relations of the Department with external bodies. It includes minutes, reports and correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to members of faculty. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and curricula vitae.
Series consists of records relating to departmental student activities. It includes minutes of meetings and related reports and memoranda.
Series consists of minutes of meetings and related reports and memoranda.
The Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology (PSA) Department was established in 1965 as one of the original departments at SFU. It marked a significant academic innovation in that it united three separate disciplines under one head—the distinguished Marxist scholar Tom Bottomore. By the late 1960s, Bottomore had returned to England, and the department entered a period of scholarly and administrative turmoil. The crisis culminated in the Department being placed under trusteeship by the University administration and eight faculty members going on strike. The collection consists of various files collected over the years by the staff of the University Archives to assist history students and other researchers. Includes press releases, reports, publications and other documents.
The fonds consists of records made or received in the course of administering the BCSF and carrying out its programs. Activities documented include the establishment and organization of the various student groups; executive and general meetings; management of financial resources; research into policy issues; and lobbying activities. Documents include agenda and minutes; constitutions; correspondence; briefs and reports; newsletters; and news clippings.
Series comprises records made or received by the three predecessor organizations of the BCSF. Includes correspondence, briefs and reports, constitution, and agenda and minutes.
Series comprises records made or received by the BCSF in the course of establishing the organization and administering its programs. Activities documented include the creation of the BCSF, its organizational changes over time and evolution into the Canadian Federation of Students---Pacific Region; and management of the organization's finances. Includes correspondence, briefs, reports, financial statements and other documents.
Series comprises records of the meetings of the BCSF Executive and General Meetings. Includes agenda, minutes, and supporting papers.
Series comprises records made or received in the course of carrying out research on topics of concern to students. Includes correspondence, reports, briefs, newsletters, news clippings, surveys, press releases, and other documents.
Series consists of press clippings about student-related issues as collected by the BCSF.
The fonds of the Department of Philosophy consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, annual reports, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, faculty files, memoranda, minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to departmental operating procedures and includes Departmental Assistant's binder.
Series consists of correspondence received and sent by the department Chair. Records include memoranda, reports, chronological correspondence, Chair's correspondence, and subject files. Records also include two cassette tapes of Jack Webster's radio program regarding faculty hiring at SFU.
Series consists of case files related to the appointment of faculty members. It includes correspondence, curricula vitae, memoranda, reports, and cassette tapes.
Series consists of the records of various departmental committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, minutes of meetings, memoranda, and cassette tapes.
Series consists of records relating to departmental representation on the Dean's Advisory Committee and the University Review Committee. Records includes memoranda and minutes.
Series consists of files of undergraduate course outlines and examinations, as well as course offerings booklets.
Series consists of departmental publications, including course offerings booklets.
Series consists of records relating to the Canadian Association of University Teachers. It includes correspondence and memoranda.
Series consists of records related to the Articulation Committee and conferences hosted by the Department or attended by faculty members. It includes booklets, correspondence, memoranda, minutes, and reports.
Fonds consists of records relating to Roberts's career at SFU. Includes correspondence, press releases, flyers, clippings, newsletters, publications, transcripts of speeches, notes, buttons, and cartoons and other artwork. Also includes a set of sound recordings made by Roberts while he was Director of the University News Service.
Series consists of records relating to significant events in SFU's history as well as general biographical information on Dennis Roberts, his correspondence, and a selection of his writing including a lengthy history of the Alumni Association. Examples of significant events documented include the Admissions Protest in 1968 and the AUCE strike in 1979. Series contains correspondence, press releases, flyers, clippings, newsletters, publications, notes, transcripts of speeches, cartoons and other artwork. A file of ephemera contains humorous, unusual, or controversial publications and correspondence collected by Roberts during his years at SFU as well as a collection of SFU political and commemorative buttons.
As Director of the University News Service, Dennis Roberts purchased a cassette recorder, which he took with him to meetings, interviews, and newsworthy events. Over the years, he captured the voices of students, staff, faculty and administrators. Although there are no transcripts for the recordings, many of them served as the basis for articles in Comment magazine, which contain additional information on the topic or individual interviewed. Topics include student protests; the dispute over the Political Science, Sociology and Anthopology (PSA) Department; interviews, speeches and news conferences with university Presidents, administrative officers, faculty members, staff and students.
A - Evening course in protests (4 min. ? version)
A - Senate Undergrad Admissions committee meeting to discuss student demands
A- Suart / Union Negotiations. // chanting // vote. B - "Way It Is' - Strand on police removal of students // news
A, B - Dr. Kenneth Strand addresses university community on the Mall after the occupation
A - Strand Address
A, B - Evans and Strand - students in Admin. Bldg. Re Admissions Policy
A - End of Admin. Bldg. Occupation (taped by Science Dean L. Funt), police movements, crowd, music, chanting. B - Discussion re shows / Strand News Conference on police call-in
A, B - Suart, Sullivan, etc. re News Conference - charges against students
A - Strand News Conference. B- cont'd // Strand statement re committee recommendations
A - R. Lester, BOG, Chair re Aberle firing // Wasserman comment // Webster / Lester. B - Lester / Webster cont'd // ground rules
A, B - Palmer decision // news conf. with 1 of dismissed profs. // Strand stmnt re Palmer decision // Strand discussion re action
A - Briemberg appeal hearings - second session
A - Jack Webster / Mordicai Briemberg. B - PSA 7 seeking reinstatement.
A, B - Chanting "On Strike, Shut it Down" to Strand
A - Briemberg News Conference. B - Interview with SFU first Academic Planner, Ron Baker.
A - Prof. Briemberg / P.S.A. statement to counter Sun allegations re Dept. / Press Conference
A, B - Wasserman / Strand - Charges of purge, PSA strike, police on Campus
A - Webster / Sullivan - PSA Strike. B - cont'd // Wasserman - Dogs, hitchhiker
A - Webster / Briemberg, // News. B - Dale Sullivan, Dean of Arts, announcement re PSA trusteeship and strike // Ken Strand, Acting President, statement re PSA dismissals // more student protests / demos re PSA strike
A - Joint Faculty meeting (students asked to leave / shouting)
A - "Now There is a Mountain" - CBC semi-documentary by Peter Hay
A, B - Prudence Wheeldon, PSA Prof. Appeal against suspension
A - Wheeldon appeal cont'd // Feldhamer appeal. B - Feldhamer appeal.
A - Feldhamer appeal cont'd. B - Feldhamer appeal cont'd // Bagpipes // Leggatt appeal
A - Spencer Horrell Memorial Service
A - Ed Larson Memorial Service. B - Release US hostages in Iran campaign.
A - Dr. Allen Cunningham to Wasserman / Webster / Gardom re SFU situation. B - Webster re Free school, threats
A - Dean of Arts Balier (?) re student parity and PSA trusteeship. B - Strand re Palmer dec. - new committee
A, B - Strand statement and Press Conference re CAUT Censure // Eng. Diplomat // Labour Relations and Unions
A - Lester statement on Wyland // Strand statement on dismissals // Pat Burns interviews Stanley Cooperman, academic or political freedom in Universities. B - cont'd // Marine Station, Bamfield, with Glen Geen.
A - Ken Mennell interviews swimming champion Vergin. B - VP Admin George Suart interview after Trades strike.
A - Jack Ramsey (Sun) // Robert wilder deportation // Graham Dawson - Fundraising
A - Speeches by novelists Harold Robbins and Arthur Hailey in Detroit during PR convention. B - Interview with Arthur Hailey by Dennis Roberts, (Comment).
A - Retreat - Strand. B - Public Policy - Strand.
A - Strand - resignation announcement
A - Stan Roberts, CKNW "Investigators" re Watergate. B - "Land of Strand" slide show // Roger Welch of SFSS
A - Webster / Strand. B - cont'd // Webster / John McEachen of Universities Task Force.
A - Ted Sinnott's 80th birthday party on Mall. B - News hour report on Ted (SFU Beloved Janitor) and his party.
A - CBC Gzowksi / Jewett interview. B - Government appropriations - Ken Strand statement.
A, B - SFU Pipes and Drums award night
A, B - Jewett // Bannerman / Jacques Khouri - on The story of her life, goals, role of University (CKNW)
A - Jewett welcome - building plans
A - "Captain Canada" Mini-bike jump over the AQ pool - fund raiser for Province Empty Stocking Fund // Allan Garr Show, CBC // CBC Morning Show. B - Prof. Ted McWhinney interview
A - Webster / Brian Wilson - Budgets. B - cont'd // Senate and Strand on Budget Committee.
A - Roberts / Jewett interview. B - Paul Cote announcing appointment of new President
A - Brian Sketchley, SFU Parachute Club - Official welcome to Jewett
A - Radio report of Jewett welcome. B - Goon Show "The Missing Tapes".
A, B - Webster/ Jewett re appointment to SFU.
A, B - Interview with Denise Holst, a courageous quadriplegic who became an SFU tour guide (Comment magazine)
A - Webster interviews Svend Robinson. B - Jewett reestablishing Women's Committee.
A - SFU Pipes and Drums annual competition and awards night. B - AUCE Strike, union rep. Drina McCormack and SFU VP George Suart interviews on CBC.
A - Dr. Pauline Jewett, President - "Women's Rights. B - Ely Zwonkin, Senior citizen from the US who studied at SFU (see Comment Magazine article re his life in Russia).
A - Dr. Pauline Jewett - interview by Alan Fotheringham
A - The original SFU Pipes and Drums perform in SFU Theatre. B - Jack Webster spells out "new crisis" at SFU involving PSA 7, Pauline Jewett and CAUT boycott.
A - SFU Piper Tom McMath plays the pipes as the Carson Graham School Band renders "Amazing Grace" in SFU theatre. B - Prof. T.C. Byrne (ACUIB) (he could have been chatting with university information officers from across Canada.)
A - SFU Pipers and "Massed Bands" parade on Mall during Open House (helped by the Triumph Street and others)
A, B - SFU Pipes and Drums; the students who kept a fine university tradition alive
A - Yvonne Hamblin - Pianist. B- Jewett statement on staying at SFU.
A, B - Dr. Pauline Jewett after 2 years as President - interview with Dennis Roberts (note: starts after about 2 minutes)
A, B - Jewett / Rosemary? Truelove interview - Women's Athletic Coordinator
A - Olympic Games music. B - Ted Sinnott CJOR interview re rotten eggs SFU Pub blurb
B - Jim Felter, Art Gallery curator - Interview re AQ garden pyramid; it's value as art, position and alignment, "it talks to me"; A - cont'd // Jewett on Government amendment // statement on seeking nomination for NDP // News
A - Announcement re Presidency - Dr. Pauline Jewett resigning and Dr. George Pedersen being appointed. B - Memorial service for Ed Larson, PPandP.
A, B - SFU Pipers and Drums awards night
A, B - Interview with Janet Brooks, student, re solo trip to South America (Comment magazine)
A, B - Clifford Lloyd interview
A - Pedersen - continued; Dr. Joachim Sandvoss, Music Teacher, SFU (see Comment). B - Dr. George Pedersen - named new President of SFU
A - Music arranged by Prof. Joe Sandvoss, Education (Comment)
A - Dr. George Pedersen, President. B - Peter Hatch - Glassblower, Science Faculty (see Comment).
A, B - Dr. George Pedersen - new SFU President first interview (see Comment Magazine)
A, B - John Sawatsky interview
A - George Suart, VP Admin. re "Negotiations"
A - Memorial Service for 7 SFU students killed in air crash just before Christmas 1977 (Oregon)
A - John Reynolds, CJOR, interviews new SFU President, Pedersen. B - cont'd; Later: Jack Webster interviews G. Suart and AUCE representative re Strike
A, B - Dr. Gordon Shrum, SFU's 1st Chancellor who built SFU (see Comment Fall / Winter 1980)
A - One week into "Release the Hostages" campaign by UNS Staff - radio interview with Dennis Roberts. B - CBC interview with Lesley Ross (Bursar Don Ross' daughter), who wrote award-winning history of Richmond
A - Ted Sinnott's memorial service by the Three Flags.
A, B - Dr. Ray Parkinson, psychologist (former MLA) who was BOG Chair
A - Terry Fox Memorial Service
A, B - Interview with Vern Bethel, Charter student (Comment)
A, B - Alan Garr, (CKLG) interviews Dennis Roberts
A, B - Tom Hammond, Scottish born mature student who owned a pub in downtown Vancouver (Comment)
A, B - Doug Gyseman, audio specialist (then AV) (Comment)
A, B - Chris Hildred, first-class photographer, AV (Comment)
A - Jack Diamond interview (with music of PDQ Bach, "Tom Jones" (see Comment Spring)
A, B - "the Happy Hooker" (Xaviera Hollander) re book.
A - Jack Webster interview with Dr. Pat McGeer. B - Carallyn Bowes - ran across Canada to join Kinesiology progr.
A - Carallyn Bowes - on Art Finley (CKNW) program // Poly Party Strike. B - Carallyn Bowes - interview en route / arrival in Vancouver (Comment) // Captain Cook lectures
A - Interview with Physics students Mariela Johansen and Jeanne Henry re upcoming Physics Undergrad Conference, (Comment)
A, B - University Information Officers (Roberts, SFU and Arnie Myers, UBC) re "Campus Unrest" at PR Society, Vancouver
A - Interviewee not identified. B - Dr. Calvert discusses proposed Engineering program.
A - Dr. Fattah statement about establishing Criminology Dept.
A - Convocation - Bagpipes, Honorary Degrees, convocation address by Robert McKenzie. B - SFU publicity blurb to accompany information pamphlet.
A - John Kenward, first student elected to SFU BOG. B - Uses of holography.
A, B - Interview with Tony Buzan, 1st President, SFU Student Council makes name for himself in UK (see Comment)
A, B - Prof. Ted Wells, Chemistry Dept. interview by Rick Hyde (see Comment Spring)
A - Future of Universities - speeches and discussion. B - cont'd // Interview with Prof. Phyllis Auty.
A, B - Interview with Trenna Jean Hunter, cashier supervisor and President of Staff Association (see Comment)
A - Prof. Gary Rush, PSA interview. B - Joel Smith, artist, SFU Communications Centre interview (see Comment).
A - 3rd part Admissions Committee / Student Discussion / Trailers Discussion [Disturbance: "We want a revolution and we want it now"!]. B - Draft of speech on Education by Dr. John Ellis?
A, B - Interview with Prof. Dan Birch (see Comment)
A - Interview with George Suart, VP Admin. re personal history and professional life (see Comment). B - Jack Webster / Stevens - Fishermen's strike.
A, B - Dr. Ted Sterling, Chair of Computing Science interview (see Comment)
A, B - Mary Trainer and Rick Antonson - young publishers of B.C. history books (see Comment)
A - Sandra Wilking, SFU International Office and SFU student re "The World Becomes A Classroom" (see Comment). B - [originally listed as SPEC interview, however Roberts believes it is Dr. Bert Turnbull, Biological Sciences].
A - Gordon Hardy, one-time editor and writer for The Peak (see Comment). B - Gordon Paulsen, C.A., Bursar's Office, re MBA program.
A - Prof. Newton, Modern Languages, interviewed by K. Mennell. B - Prof. Somjee, PSA, interview by K. Mennell.
A, B - Mel Woolley, Entrepreneurial Student, created Naheeno Park and "make-work" projects (see Comment).
A, B - CKNW news - Prof. Tony Arrott discusses liquid cyrstals and his life (see Comment)
A - Dr. Ed Lipinski, SFU Psychiatrist and Director of Health Serv. (His death in a motoring accident in Spain shocked the Campus Community). B - Prof. Gygax, Physicist in magnetic fields.
A, B. -Prof. Larry Boland, Economics and Commerce, and a member of Senate
A - Dr. Vergin, Economics and Commerce (interviewed by Rick Hyde re his work with Marlon Brando and his study of gambling) (see Comment) // Ted Sinnott radio interview. B - Sinnott cont'd // Computing Centre // Rev. Duncan Chalmers.
A - Dr. John Ellis, Education, makes short statement on transfer credit
A - Jack Webster and Gullen, Vancouver School Board re competence in English
A - Dr. John Ellis, Education, speech to Rotary Club "Conspiracy of Status" // Webster Interview. B - Webster Interview cont'd
A - Webster / Dr. Clark, Academic Planning, UBC. B - Webster with David Anderson and Allan Williams (Government's version of Egg Marketing) (Also raises the question as to whether Pierre Trudeau was fibbing when he claimed he actually said "Fuddle-Duddle" in the House.)
A, B - Art Finlay (CKNW) with interviews re the ecology ranging from population explosion to pollution
A - Prof. George Keter, History Dept. interview. B - Robert Brown, Dean, IDS, on new General Studies Program with retiring Peak reporter (sounds like John Sawatsky)
A - Prof. Bill Vidaver re Environmental Studies program. B - Prof. Weinberg re IQ - EEG.
A - Dr. Norman MacKenzie, Open University in Britain. B - "Enfilmony" (environment, film and the symphony performance planned to take place on the Mall and conducted by Brent Straughan, Student, who created it).
A, B - Jack Webster / Dr. Norman MacKenzie, Open University cont'd // Russian poet interview.
A - Student recruitment discussion // music. B - Jack Webster / Dave Barrett, B.C. Premier.
A - Physical Development Studies Program with Profs. Bill Ross and Ray Duncan. B - Houghton / Behavioural Sciences Foundation // Pollution
A, B - SFU Alumni Association Board Meeting.
A, B. - SFU First Open House - Jack Webster discusses admissions with Registrars Harry Evans, SFU and Jack Parnell, UBC
A - Marine Biology Station with Profs. Glen Geen and Louis Druehl. B - Prof. Bill Vidaver discusses pollution
A, B - Lakie Sirimanne, Economics and Commerce student from Ceylon; came to Canada to join RCAF
A, B - "Post-Occupation" News Conference // Letters between President Stand and Student Council and Attorney General read over phone by DR to news outlets
Dr. Strand addressing department Chairs after Palmer decision
Dr. Strand press conference
Dr. Strand
Professor Rieckhoff interviewed by Dennis Roberts
The fonds consists of research material acquired by Peter Poole in the course of preparing his thesis and an earlier essay on the solidarity movement. The fonds includes taped interviews of trade union leaders, solidarity movement leaders, community activists, and legal counsel. Twenty-six of the interviews are transcribed. The fonds also includes newspapers and newsclippings, essays, publications, flyers, research notes, ephemera, a chronology of the solidarity movement, and a copy of Peter Poole's thesis.
Series consists of records made or received by Peter Poole in the course of preparing his thesis on the solidarity movement in British Columbia. Includes news clippings, essays, publications, flyers, research notes, ephemera, a copy of the thesis, and a chronology of the 1983 conflict between the solidarity movement and the Social Credit government of British Columbia.
Series consists of 68 interviews conducted by Peter Poole with trade union leaders, solidarity movement leaders, community activists, and legal counsel. Records include sound recordings of the interviews, lists of interview subjects, Poole's personal impressions of the tape recorded interviews and interviewees, and 26 transcripts made by students. Interviews range from one-half hour to two hours in length.
During 1984, while Poole was a student at SFU, he wrote an essay on the solidarity movement, Progressive Activism and the Solidarity Movement: Towards a Radical Perspective. Interviewees were chosen from a number of left-wing activists who had been directly involved with the solidarity struggle or who had followed it closely. Sub-series includes 1 file listing interviewees and the sound recordings of the interviews.
Peter Poole lived in Terrace for a number of years in the late seventies and early eighties and was especially active in the Terrace/Kitimat Labour Council). His interview subects comprised a cross-section of people from different unions and different occupations: for example, a teacher (BCTF), academic faculty from Northwest College (CUPE), a federal fisheries officer (PSAC), a library clerk (BCGEU), pulp mill workers and aluminum smelter workers (CAIMAW and CASAW), and a labourer (Rock & Tunnel Union). Records include one file listing the interviewees and the sound recordings of the interviews.
John Jenson and Paul Johnston (F-161-2-2-0-8) are interviewed together on OBJ-3502.
John Jenson (F-161-2-2-0-7) and Paul Johnston are interviewed together on OBJ-3502.
Jim Nyland and Claus Mueller were interviewed together on OBJ-3705. See also F-161-2-2-0-0-14.
Jim Nyland and Claus Mueller were interviewed together on OBJ-3705. See also F-161-2-2-0-0-12
Poole conducted a large group of interviews in the Lower Mainland. His subjects included labour representatives from Operation Solidarity (the trade union component of the movement), representatives from the Solidarity Coalition (the community component) and Leo McGrady, who headed the law firm that defended the unions before the Labour Relations Board and the courts.
Jack Adams was Director, British Columbia Government Employees Union (BCGEU); Executive Council member of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and a member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Monty Alton was Assistant Director in Western Canada, United Steelworkers of America; 5th Vice-President British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and a member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Cliff Andstein was Director, British Columbia Government Employees Union (BCGEU); Executive Committee member of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and Negotiating Committee Chairman, BCGEU.
John Barlett was Recording Secretary, Lower Mainland Solidarity Coalition Steering Committee; and Spokesperson, Cultural Coalition Against the Budget.
Al Blakey was Co-chairperson, Lower Mainland Solidarity Coalition; Executive member, British Columbia Teachers' Federation; and ex-President of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL).
David Cadman was President, Vancouver Municipal and Regional Employees Union, and public sector representative to the Lower Mainland Solidarity Coalition (LMSC).
Raj Chouhan was President, Canadian Farmworkers Union, and member of the Lower Mainland Solidarity Coalition (LMSC) Steering Committee.
Bill Clark was President, Telecommunication Workers' Union; 6th Vice-President of the British Columbia Federation of Labour; and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Owen Dykstra was President, BC division of the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE); general Vice-President of national CUPE; Executive Council member of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Jean Errington was Research representative for the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE).
Don Garcia was President (Canadian area), International Longshoreman's and Warehousemen's Union; 2nd Vice-President of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Roy Gautier was President, British Columbia and Yukon Building Trades Council, and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Art Gruntman was Vice-President, Canadian Paperworkers' Union; 9th Vice-President of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Leif Hansen was Assistant Secretary Manager, Local 212A United Food and Commercial Workers' International Union; 7th Vice-President of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Geoff Holter was Chief Representative, Professional Employees Association; and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Jef Keighley was Staff Representative, Canadian Association of Mechanical and Allied Workers; and Secretary Treasurer, Lower Mainland Budget Coalition.
Colin Kelly was President, Local 1, Independent Canadian Transit Workers' Union; and Secretary, Lower Mainland Budget Coalition.
Mike Kramer was Secretary Treasurer of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Art Kube was President, British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee; chief Spokesperson for Operation Solidarity; and Co-chairperson of the Solidarity Coalition.
Larry Kuehn was President, British Columbia Teachers' Federation; and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Ed Lavalle was Corresponding Secretary, Lower Mainland Solidarity Coaltion Steering Committee; and table officer, College Institute Educators Association.
Clive Lytle was Director of Communications and Education, BC and Yukon Buildings Trade Council; and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Bill MacDonald was President, Hospital Employees Union.
Leo McGrady was legal counsel for a number of public sector unions.
Nora Paton was Chief Executive Officer, BC Nurses Union; and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
David Rice was Director of Research and Legislation (Administrative Director), British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Father Jim Roberts was Instructor in Religious Studies, Langara Community College; and Co-chairperson, Solidarity Coalition.
Len Ruel was Director of Organization, Canadian Labour Congress; and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Cliff Rungren was Business Manager and Financial Secretary, Local 213, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Stuart Rush was member of the BC Law Union and representative to the Lower Mainland Solidarity Coaltion.
Renate Shearer was Co-chairperson, Provincial Solidarity Coalition, and former Human Rights Commissioner.
Stan Shewaga was President, Local 9, Pulp Paper and Wood Workers of Canada.
Shane Simpson was Representative for the Lower Mainland Solidarity Coalition (LMSC) on the Provincial Solidarity Coaltion Steering Committee, and staff worker with LMSC.
Marty Smith was elected Business Agent, Local 452, Carpenters' Union.
Ralph Steeves was President, BC Council of Machinists (International Association of Machinist and Aerospace Workers); 8th Vice-President of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Jesse Succamore was National Secretary Treasurer, Canadian Association of Mechanical and Allied Workers; and 1st Vice-President, Confederation of Canadian Unions.
Jean Swanson was Staffperson, Provincial Solidary Coalition.
Frances Wasserlein was Spokesperson, Women Against the Budget.
Alice West was Executive Officer, Public Service Alliance of Canada; 10th Vice-President of the British Columbia Federation of Labour (BCFL); and member of the Trade Union Solidarity Steering Committee.
Fred Wilson was Chairman of the Labour Committee for the Communist Party of Canada (CPC); Provincial Organizational Secretary for CPC; campaign manager for the Committee of Progressive Electors (COPE); and COPE delegate to the Lower Mainland Budget Coaliton (LMCB) and the Lower Mainland Solidarity Coalition (LMSC).
The fonds consists primarily of records created during the writing of Wasserlein's MA thesis at SFU, "An Arrow Aimed at the Heart": the Vancouver Women's Caucus and the Abortion Campaign, 1969-1971, completed in 1990. The fonds also contains records related to other research Wasserlein was involved in, specifically her work with the UBC research project on non-academic women in 1979, and her application for a Canada Council grant in support of her own research project in 1982. Fonds includes taped interviews, transcripts, notes, drafts, correspondence, published materials, periodicals, and photographs. No records exist related to Wasserlein's activities with the Vancouver Folk Music Festival.
Series consists of notes, correspondence, memos, lists of names, questionnaires, and receipts related to Frances Wasserlein's involvement with a project to produce a history of the Dean of Women's Office at UBC, then known as the Women Students' Office.
Series consists of one file of notes, drafts, correspondence, receipts and copies of Frances Wasserlein's Canada Council Grant application in 1982. The grant application was made to request support for writing a book about the history of the women's liberation movement in British Columbia.
Series consists of materials used by Frances Wasserlein in producing her MA thesis, written between 1985 and1990, "An Arrow Aimed at the Heart": the Vancouver Women's Caucus and the Abortion Campaign, 1969-1971. The thesis topic was the history of the Vancouver Women's Caucus (VWC) and the abortion campaign of 1969-1971. The series consists of taped interviews with VWC members; transcripts of the interviews; notes; drafts; bibliographies; correspondence; publications of women's liberation organizations in Canada and the United States; a scrapbook compiled by Wasserlein during her research; copies of the VWC newspaper, The Pedestal; photographs; and other miscellaneous papers and publications.
Sub-series consists of records related to the production of draft copies of Wasserlein's MA thesis. The sub-series contains notes, outlines, bibliographies, resource lists, a newspaper index, newspaper clippings, correspondence, chapter drafts and a draft final copy.
Sub-series consists of records related to interviews conducted by Wasserlein with members of the Vancouver Women's Caucus. The sub-series contains tape recorded interviews, interview transcripts, correspondence with interview subjects, a notebook, and reference copies of the interview cassettes created by the archives.
Sub-series consists of source material compiled by Wasserlein during the writing of her MA thesis. The sub-series contains a photocopy of a scrapbook produced by Marge Hollibaugh; notes; bibliographies; correspondence; publications from women's liberation organizations; proceedings from the Vancouver Indochinese Women's Conference, 1972; photographs from the Abortion Caravan to Ottawa, 1970; copies of the Vancouver Women's Caucus newspaper, The Pedestal; and photocopies of other miscellaneous published material.
Sub-series consists of newspapers, publications from women's liberation organizations, academic papers, copies of the Vancouver Women's Caucus newspaper The Pedestal, recordings of CBC Morningside broadcasts, and a taped interview with Dr. Margaret Benston. Benston was a founding member of the Women's Studies Department at SFU and a prominent activist for social justice in Canada.
Fonds contains material relating to Lebowitz's career at SFU and her participation in the Corrective Collective, a feminist writing group active in the 1970s. Fonds includes correspondence, minutes, proposals, publications, newspapers, invoices, receipts, a ledger, and other documents.
Series contains records relating to highlights of Andrea Lebowitz's career at SFU and the development of the Women's Studies Program. One file of reference material contains publications on abortion, daycare, working women, and women at the Canadian Broadcasting Company. Includes correspondence, minutes, proposals, publications, and other documents.
Series contains records made or received by the Corrective Collective during the course of writing, publishing and selling two books: She Named It Canada Because That's What It Was Called (Vancouver, 1971), and Never Done, Three Centuries of Women's Work in Canada (Vancouver, 1974). The former, a pictorial history of Canada, was originally produced as a handout for a conference of Vietnamese and North American women held in Vancouver. The latter was a history of non-aboriginal women in Canada. The file, "Published resource material" includes various feminist publications (such as the Saskatoon Women's Liberation Newsletter) and directories. The Collective used them to get ideas for publication formats and to prepare distribution lists. Series includes a copy of each publication, correspondence, memorandum of agreement, notes, receipts, a ledger and other documents.
In 1970 Candace Parker was a member of the Vancouver Women's Caucus and a graduate student at the University of British Columbia. For a sociology class, Parker and Sibylle Klein wrote an essay, "Developing An Ideology: the Feminist Movement in North America," which drew upon Parker's experiences in Women's Caucus. Candace Parker was also interviewed by Frances Wasserlein and the transcript of that interview is contained in the Frances Wasserlein fonds, F-162. The collection consists of research material collected by Candace Parker in the course of preparing her essay plus some additional feminist literature acquired afterwards. Includes notes and drafts, news clippings, reprints, broadsheets, position papers, briefs, newsletters, and newspapers.
Series consists of Parker's subject and research files; includes a copy of her paper co-authored with Sibylle Klein, "Developing An Ideology: the Feminist Movement in North America." Record types include notes and drafts, news clippings, reprints, broadsheets, position papers, briefs, and newsletters.
Series consists of copies of published newspapers collected by Parker in the course of her research. Titles include the Students for a Democratic Society New Left Note, The Daily Gater, The Ubyssey (UBC), The Pedestal, It Aint Me Babe, People's World, Right On!, Young Socialist Forum, Women's Liberation (Reed College), New Leaf, the Women's Liberated Georgia Straight, and Off Our Backs.
Fonds consists of material acquired by Anne Roberts as a member of Vancouver Women's Caucus. Includes minutes, correspondence, flyers, pamphlets, reprints, news clippings, briefs, position papers, copies of The Pedestal, and other documents.
The fonds consists of the audiocassettes for eleven interviews conducted by Gerry Scott for his thesis.
The fonds consists of the audiocassettes for five interviews conducted by Susan Walsh for her thesis.
The fonds consists of records arising from Smythe's activities with the University of California, Berkeley; the U.S. Central Statistical Board; the U.S. Department of Labor (Wage and Hour Division); the U.S. Federal Communications Commission; his academic work; and from his various personal activities. Fonds includes correspondence, teaching materials, publications, research materials, reports, written testimony, reference material, and other records.
Series consists of Smythe's personal records arising from his various activities, such as his employment as a faculty member at several universities; his studies at the University of California, Berkeley; his involvement with the United States military; his private business venture in the television industry; his ongoing research into various areas of personal interest; his travels to China and Europe; and his work on his autobiography. Series also contains personal records of Smythe's wife, Jennie, and of his father, J.W. Smyth. Series includes correspondence, contracts, annual reports, legal records, reports, notes, drafts, research papers, diaries, newsletters, published articles, and a curriculum vitae.
Subseries consists of Smythe's personal records arising from his employment as a faculty member at the University of Illinois; the Regina campus of the University of Saskatchewan; the University of California, San Diego; Simon Fraser University; and Temple University. Subseries includes correspondence, contracts, reports, legal records, and other materials. Materials relate to sabbatical leaves, Smythe's lawsuit against Simon Fraser University regarding research leave, and allegations of un-American activities delaying Smythe's appointment at the University of Illinois.
Subseries consists of records arising from Smythe's activities as a student at the University of California, Berkeley. Subseries includes class notes, term papers, and research notes.
Subseries consists of miscellaneous records of various members of the Smythe family. Records of Dallas Smythe include a 1915 diary, military records, and records arising from a private business venture to establish a television station in the Champaign-Urbana area in Illinois. Subseries also includes employment and pension records of Smythe's father, J.W. Smyth, and issues of Alternatives, a newsletter edited by Dallas Smythe's wife Jennie.
Subseries consists of records arising from Smythe's personal interests and activities. Subseries includes lectures by Smythe and his colleague Tran Van Dinh (on audiocassette); interviews with Smythe (on video cassette); correspondence and reports regarding Smythe's FBI file and the Dies Committee on Subversive Activities (the House Committee on Un-American Activities); drafts and correspondence arising from proposed radio and movie projects developed by Smythe; correspondence regarding a festschrift of his work; and records relating to his anti-war activities.
Subseries consists of travel diaries written by Dallas and Jennie Smythe during their travels to China, England and Hungary.
Subseries consists of records arising from Smythe's compilation of his autobiography. Included is Smythe's curriculum vitae, correspondence with colleague Thomas Guback and others, drafts of two chapters of the autobiography, and newspaper clippings and articles regarding Smythe.
Series consists of Smythe's correspondence with family members and colleagues. Series includes incoming letters and copies of outgoing letters.
Subseries consists of correspondence arranged chronologically. Subseries includes incoming letters and copies of outgoing letters.
Subseries consists of correspondence arranged by name of correspondent. Subseries includes incoming letters and copies of outgoing letters.
Dallas Smythe began his involvement in the field of agricultural economics in 1934, when he worked as an extension specialist in agriculture for the College of Agriculture at the University of California, Berkeley. In this position, he studied economic outlooks for various California farm products. In 1937, he was hired as an associate economist by the U.S. Central Statistical Board, where he oversaw the collection of statistics for the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This involved the review of information collection policies and procedures, and the planning of the Census of Agriculture. Smythe left the Central Statistical Board in 1938. Series consists of records written or co-authored by Smythe in his positions as extension specialist in agriculture for the University of California, Berkeley, and as an economist for the U.S. Central Statistical Board. Series includes research and reports regarding various farm crops in California, and reports and chart books from the federal Census of Agriculture.
Dallas Smythe was hired by the U.S. Department of Labor (Wage and Hour Division) in 1938. His role in this newly-created department was to help enforce laws regarding minimum wage rates and maximum hours of allowed work. He investigated cases in which the implementation of these laws was being avoided through various means. His investigations included occupational studies of the working conditions of newspaper boys, railway porters, life-insurance salesmen, telegraph messengers, cigar factory workers, railway maintenance workers, textile workers, lumber camp workers, and others. Series consists of records arising from investigations conducted by the U.S. Department of Labor (Wage and Hour Division). Series includes correspondence, studies, reports, reference material, written testimony, photographs, and other materials.
Smythe served as Chief Economist for the U.S. Federal Communications Commission from 1943 to 1948. In this position, he conducted an economic analysis of the telegraph industry, investigated the issues surrounding the proposed merger of Western Union and Postal Telegraph, carried out studies in farm telephone service, and held public hearings on the post war reallocation of the radio spectrum. Series consists of records arising from Smythe's employment at the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. Series includes publications, correspondence, and other materials.
Subseries consists of office records maintained by Smythe during his employment at the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. Series includes correspondence, exhibits presented to the Commission, written testimony, and some records received from the Board of War Communications.
Subseries consists of publications written or co-authored by Smythe in his position as chief economist at the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. Publications include reports, surveys, trend forecasts, studies, and statistics on the topics of radio and telegraph communications, television, and other communications industries.
Series consists of records relating to publications and presentations produced by Smythe in his role as a student at the University of California, Berkeley; a professor at the University of Illinois, the University of Saskatchewan at Regina, Simon Fraser University, and other universities; and as a peace activist. Series includes publications, presentations, and correspondence. Publications arising from Smythe's employment as an agricultural economist (at the University of California, Berkeley and at the U.S. Central Statistical Bureau), and as chief economist with the Federal Communications Commission are located in series F-16-3 (Agricultural economics) and F-16-5 (U.S. Federal Communications Commission).
Subseries consists of records arising from publications and presentations produced by Dallas Smythe. Series includes his Ph.D. dissertation, journal articles, studies, speeches, prepared testimony, and other materials. Materials relate to television content analysis, satellite broadcasting and other communications technology, the effects of mass media on society, the peace movement, and other topics researched and studied by Smythe.
Subseries consists of correspondence arising from the creation and publication of Dallas Smythe's various publications and presentations. Series includes correspondence regarding Smythe's research in television content studies, pay TV, telecommunications regulations, telecommunications training for individuals in developing countries, the political economy of communications, and other related topics. Subseries also includes correspondence regarding the publication of Smythe's book, Dependency Road. Correspondence relating to Smythe's New York television content studies includes some photographs produced during those studies.
Dallas Smythe served as a professor and/or guest lecturer at several universities from 1948 to 1988, including the University of Illinois; the University of Saskatchewan at Regina; the University of California, San Diego; Simon Fraser University; Temple University; Ohio State University; and the University of Hawaii. Smythe also participated in teach-ins on the topics of the Vietnam War, Reaganomics, and other subjects. He was also involved in research and lecturing at the Centre for International Research on Communications and Information Technology (CIRCIT) in Sydney, Australia. Series consists of records arising from Smythe's teaching activities at various locations. Series includes course outlines, lecture notes, reference material, class readings, and other materials. The majority of the records in this series relate to courses on the political economy of communications, and other topics in the field of communications.
During his work as a professor at various universities, Smythe engaged in research in a variety of areas in the field of communications. Smythe also organized and participated in a number of conferences on communications and other topics. Series consists of records arising from Smythe's research activities and conference participation. Series includes correspondence, research articles, notes, and other materials.
Subseries consists of records arising from Smythe's participation in various conferences. Subseries includes correspondence, notes, articles, agendas, conference proceedings, planning materials (such as address lists and schedules), and other materials. The majority of the files relate to conferences organized by the International Association of Mass Communications Research (IAMCR).
Subseries consists of records compiled by Smythe to support his research interests. Subseries includes lecture notes, addresses, photocopied monographs, notes, reports, and other materials. Records are organized into subject based files, including topics such as postal service, fax technology, the radio and television industries, newspapers and printing, media regulation, the peace movement, and other subjects.
Subseries consists of records produced and compiled by Smythe in preparation for his various publications. Subseries includes lecture notes, drafts, correspondence, reference material, and other records. Included are research materials for Smythe's articles on China, his book Dependency Road, and his unfinished book on a theory of communications.
Fonds consists of records relating to the activities of the Fraser Valley University Society and its role in the establishment of the Technical University of British Columbia. Activities, events, and topics documented include the formation of the Society; the Society's organization, structure and membership; general administration and correspondence; management of the Society's budget and financial resources; Board, committee, and other meetings; community outreach and promotion; fundraising; research; and the Society's development of relationships with municipal and provincial government bodies. Records include correspondence; minutes and agendas; organizational charts, constitutions, by-laws, mission statements, policies and procedures; budgets and financial statements; reports; subject files; member and donor lists; speeches; newsletters, promotional brochures and flyers; press releases and newspaper articles; videocassettes; and photographs and slides.
Series consists of records relating to the founding, organization, mandate, scope of activities and general administration of the Fraser Valley University Society. Activities, events and topics documented include the development of the Society's constitution, bylaws, goals, and policies; job descriptions; applications for charitable status, a casino licence and government funding; as well as volunteer efforts and management. Series also includes some records relating to the organization and administration of the Technical University of British Columbia. Activities, events and topics documented include the University's relationship with the Fraser Valley University Society and the Provincial Government, and the funding of the University. Records include organizational charts, constitution and bylaws, mission statements, policies and procedures, job descriptions, correspondence, forms, applications, resolutions, biographical material, photographs, lists, calendars, and phone logs.
Series consists of incoming and outgoing correspondence of the Society. Includes correspondence between members, as well as correspondence with government and school officials, community organizations, business associations, media, and post-secondary institutions. Activities, events and topics documented include special events, promotion, fundraising, co-operation and liaison, government relations, and general administrative activities. Records include letters, memoranda, faxes and related attachments such as press releases, promotional material and minutes.
Series consists of financial records of the Society. Activities, events and topics documented include budget preparation, allocation and use of financial resources, and funding and grant requests. Records include budgets and financial statements, as well as applications for government funding, and related supporting papers.
Series consists of records relating to meetings of the Board of Directors, several committees (including the Executive Committee, Fundraising Committee, Government Relations Committee, Strategy Committee and Advisory Committee) and ad-hoc or extraordinary meetings. In addition to some minutes of the Society's predecessor body, the Fraser South University Society, the series also includes records relating to meetings of the society with other groups, including meetings of the Joint Committee Group, the University of Surrey Community Committee and the Langley Economic Development Commission. Records include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers, correspondence, reports, budgets, financial statements, and special resolutions.
Series consists of records relating to the community relations, promotion and fundraising activities of the Fraser Valley University Society and the Technical University of British Columbia. Specific activities, events and topics documented include publicity and advertising, media relations, community outreach, speeches and talks, fundraising events, donor relations and committee meetings and reports, particularly of the Fundraising, Community Relations, and Public Relations Committees. Records include newspaper articles, press releases and related records, correspondence, newsletters, brochures, flyers, invitations, speeches, lists, video cassettes, photographs, slides, and drawings.
Series consists of records relating to the society's relations and correspondence with government bodies and individuals involved in government affairs, particularly at the municipal and provincial level. Includes records relating to the activities of the Government Relations Committee, as well as the Interim Planning Committee established by the Provincial Government in 1994 to assist in the establishment of the Technical University of British Columbia. Series also includes records concerning government organization and education policies and campaigns, accumulated by the society for informational purposes. Records include correspondence, reports, minutes, press releases and newspaper articles.
Series consists of records pertaining to society membership. Donor lists are sometimes included in files with member lists. Records include policies and procedures, forms and membership lists.
Series consists of reports by and relating to the society, as well as reports, news releases, statistics and other material used by the society to research post-secondary education in British Columbia. Series also include reports by and relating to the Fraser Valley Access Committee, the Fraser Valley Committee on Post-Secondary Education, the Technical University of British Columbia Interim Planning Council and the Technical University of British Columbia.
The fonds consists of records made or received by the TeleLearning Network's management office in the course of administering the Network's affairs. Activities documented include Annual General Meetings and meetings of the Board of Directors and TeleLearning committees, Network financial administration and budgeting, communications, media relations and web presence, the holding of annual TeleLearning Conferences, NCE reporting, management of research projects, and promotion of TeleLearning spin-off companies. Records include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers; NCE application submissions and working papers; reports, including Annual Reports, NCE statistical reports and the final NCE report; letters patent of incorporation, Network internal agreements, memoranda of agreement, by-laws, policies and procedures; correspondence, notes, and working papers; budgets, financial statements, audit reports, tax returns, year-end documents and planning documents; conference programs, audio tapes of conference presentations, conference promotional material and artifacts; TeleLearning software products on CD ROM, and TeleLearning's web site (burned onto a CD in September 2002); communications plan, press releases and press clippings. Record media include paper, electronic (spreadsheets, word-processing documents, graphics formats, and html files), optical disks, audio tapes, photographs, graphics and artifacts.
Series consists of paper and electronic records relating to the meetings of the Board of Directors, several committees (Executive Committee, Program Committee, Operations Committee and the Knowledge and Technology Transfer Committee), and the Annual General Meetings. Records include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers, correspondence, reports, planning documents, organization charts, budgets and financial statements, resolutions, attendance waiver forms, voting proxy forms, ballots, and proposals. Records are retained in both paper and electronic media.
This sub-series consists of records relating to the meetings of the Board of Directors, in the form of the package Directors received in preparation for each meeting. Records include agendas, minutes and supporting papers; correspondence, organization charts, reports, planning documents, budgets and financial statements, communication plans, resolutions, attendance waiver forms, voting proxy forms, ballots, and proposals. The sub-series also includes the Executive Director's file of notes relating to the Board. Both paper and electronic records have been retained, and there is some duplication of documents across media. Electronic records are retained in their original software formats (primarily .doc and .ppt).
This subseries consists of records relating to the meetings of the Executive Committee. Records include agendas, minutes, supporting papers, correspondence, presentations and reports. Both paper and electronic records have been retained, and there is some duplication of documents across media. Electronic records are retained in their original software formats (primarily .doc and .ppt).
This sub-series consists of records relating to the meetings of the Program Committee. Records include agendas, minutes, supporting papers, correspondence, presentations and reports. Both paper and electronic records have been retained, and there is some duplication of documents across media. Electronic records are retained in their original software formats (primarily .doc and .ppt).
This sub-series consists of records relating to the sessions of the AGM. Records include agendas, minutes and supporting papers, correspondence, reports, resolutions, and proxy and waiver forms. Both paper and electronic records have been retained, and there is some duplication of documents across media. Electronic records are retained in their original software formats (.doc).
This sub-series consists of records relating to the meetings of the Operations Committee. Records include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers. Records are retained only in an electronic medium, in their original software format (.doc).
This sub-series consists of records relating to the meetings of the Knowledge and Technology Transfer Committee. Records include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers. Records are retained only in an electronic medium, in their original software format (.doc and .xls).
This series consists of records relating to the general administration of the Network through the management office. Activities documented include establishment of the Network, development of policy and governance structures, strategic planning, incorporation, liaison with member institutions, liaison with the federal Networks of Centres of Excellence (NCE) program and other NCEs, TeleLearning's mid-term review in 1998 and its renewal application in 2000. Records includes correspondence, reports (including Annual Reports and the final NCE report), statistics, policies and procedures, insurance policies, agreements (including the Network Internal Agreement), Network by-laws, letters patent of incorporation, funding applications and planning documents. Both paper and electronic records have been retained, and there is some duplication of documents across media. Electronic records are retained in their original software formats (.doc .xls, .ppt, .pdf, .jpg).
Series consists of records relating to the management of TeleLearning's finances. Activities documented include budget planning, preparation of year-end documentation, tax and information returns, funding applications, distribution of funds, and audits. Records include budgets, spreadsheets, financial statements and supporting papers, tax and information returns, applications, correspondence and reports. Both paper and electronic records have been retained, and there is some duplication of documents across media. Electronic records are retained in their original software formats (.doc, .xls).
This series consists of records relating to the communications function. Activities documented include development of a communications plan, media relations, advertising and publicity, production of the Network electronic newsletter "Tele-Chat," maintenance of the TeleLearning web site, and delivery of papers, presentations and reports concerning the Network. Records include correspondence, reports, press releases, press clippings, web site, artwork, logos, graphics, photographs and negatives, papers and presentations, and TeleLearning demonstration products on compact disk. Records are retained in both paper and electronic media.
Sub-series consists of the working files created by the Communications Manager. Activities documented include media and public relations, government relations, development of a communications plan and strategy, committee work (the Networks of Centres of Excellence Communications Committee and the TeleLearning Operations Committee), web site development, and projects (the "Collaborations" CD ROM and a joint TeleLearning and Office of Learning Technology Writing Project). Records include correspondence, reports, notes and working papers, communication plans, meeting agendas and minutes, proposals, work plans, agreements and contracts (copies), invoices, budget papers, purchase orders, estimates, permission forms, surveys, evaluation forms, contact lists, media releases, interview notes, presentations, advertising copy, newsletters and reprints. Photographs are included in file 2, "Annual report in progress." Records are retained in paper medium only.
Contains photographs.
Sub-series consists of media releases created by TeleLearning, as well as articles, transcripts and other material relating to TeleLearning collected by the Network to monitor its media coverage. Records are retained in paper medium only.
Sub-series consists of the TeleLearning web site as it was in September 2002, when it was burned onto a compact disk. Earlier versions of the web site were not preserved. The main sections include Home page, Profile, Activities and events, Research projects, Conference, Contact, K-12, Post-secondary, Teachers, Workplace, En français, Talk to us, and a Member / researcher section.
Sub-series consists of compact disks (CDs) containing TeleLearning products for public demonstration. Demonstrations include an internet course reader, course delivery and course enhancement software for the internet, and a practitioner's guide to telelearning.
This sub-series consists of the electronic documents that comprised the newsletter. Records are retained in their original software formats (.doc).
Sub-series consists of visual material and artifacts relating to TeleLearning events, officers (portraits), promotional material and awards. Records include photographs, graphics, artwork, flyers, logos, sample letterhead, a photo scrapbook, and awards (Gallery of Superb Printing in BC and a Public Sector Partnership Award). Media include paper, prints, negatives, contact sheets, artifacts (placques and a sculpture), and electronic records in their original software formats (.jpg, .eps, .tif, .pct, and .gif).
Includes 16 contact sheets.
Includes 26 photographic transparencies and 135 negatives.
Includes 7 photographic prints and 5 slides.
Includes 73 digital photographs.
Sub-series consists of reports about TeleLearning delivered by Network members in various venues, as well as reports commissioned by TeleLearning to summarize its activities and results. Records are retained predominantly in electronic media, maintained in their original software formats (.doc, .txt and .pdf); also included is a paper oversized book (originally bound) diagramming the "genealogy of research projects" conducted by the Network.
Subseries consists of publications produced by Telelearning Network of Centres of Excellence, including annual reports, preliminary and final conference programs, newsletters, and promotional booklets.
This series consists of records relating to TeleLearning conferences. Activities documented include conference planning and organization, media relations, delivery of conference sessions, and post-conference evaluations. Records include conference material (programs, abtracts, and audio recordings of sessions); publicity material (brochures, posters, graphics and promotional artifacts); administrative records (correspondence, work plans, contracts and agreements, release forms, budgets, speakers and registration lists, media releases); and post-conference reports (debriefings, wrap-up reports, conference statistics).
Sub-series consists of files relating generally to the TeleLearning annual conferences. Includes a file relating to the history of the conferences and speaker release forms relating to the audio recordings.
Sub-series consists of material relating to the 1996 TeleLearning Conference held in Montreal.
Sub-series consists of material relating to the 1997 TeleLearning Conference held in Toronto.
Sub-series consists of material relating to the 1998 TeleLearning Conference held in Vancouver.
Sub-series consists of material relating to the 1999 TeleLearning Conference held in Montreal.
Sub-series consists of material relating to the 2000 TeleLearning Conference held in Toronto.
Sub-series consists of material relating to the 2001 TeleLearning Conference held in Vancouver.
This series consists of records relating to the administration of TeleLearning research projects by the Network management office. Activities documented include the receipt of theme and project progress reports, drafting of project proposals and contracts, distribution of research funds, and the undertaking by the management office of its own research project, the "Network of TeleLearning Communities" project. Records include correspondence, reports, notes and working papers, contracts, agreements and memoranda of understanding, overheads and presentations, prototype specifications, research theme and project reports, budget papers, financial statements, invoices, expense claims and supporting documentation. Record media include paper and electronic.
This sub-series consists of records relating to the management of the project. Activities documented include proposal development, Steering Committee deliberations, participant liaison, allocation of funds, and project reporting. Records include the project proposal, budgets, correspondence, meeting records, progress reports, final report, participant profiles, reports and summary financial statements. Records are retained in paper medium only.
Sub-series consists of records submitted by TeleLearning Theme and Project Leaders in compliance with Network reporting requirements. The records comprise reports on theme and project progress and results. Record media include paper and electronic; electronic records are retained in their original software format (.doc).
Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration of certain TeleLearning projects by the Network's management office. Projects include the Portal for Online Objects in Learning (POOL); a TeleLearning legacy book and a research handbook and two initiatives funded by the Office of Learning Technologies (Human Resources Development Canada) -- "Training and mentoring of instructors and course authors for TeleLearning using Virutal-U" and "A framework of policy studies for telelearning technologies." Records include proposals, contracts, agreements and memoranda of understanding, correspondence, reports, specifications, notes and working papers, budgets, spreadsheets, invoices, claim forms and supporting documentation. Record media include paper and electronic; electronic records are retained in their original software format (.doc).
This series consists of records relating to TeleLearning spin-off companies, including InVentures Incubator Inc., TeleLearning Solutions Inc., CLEARMed Inc., TELEStraining Inc., ThoughtShare Communications Inc., and Virtual Learning Environments Inc. Activities documented include company establishment, business and strategic planning, promotion, and the Network's purchase and / or sale of company shares. Records include proposals, correspondence, reports, agreements, contracts and memoranda of understanding, meeting minutes, business plans, certificates of incorporation (copies), company by-laws, project files, work plans, promotional material, media releases, financial statements, invoices, share agreements and certificates. Record media include paper and electronic; electronic records are retained in their original software formats (.doc, .rtf, .ppt, .xls, and .pdf).
Collection consists of biographical information about Lorne M. Kendall and a group of his papers and lectures selected by Mary Kendall.
The fonds consists of records created and received by Mark Winston as a young scholar; biology professor at Simon Fraser University; professor and fellow with SFU's Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue (USD) program and Centre for Dialogue; instructor in related dialogue, facilitation, and leadership courses and programs; author; and consultant in the field of apiculture, as well as dialogue and facilitation. The fonds also consists of records relating to the development of the Centre for Dialogue and its programs by Winston in his capacity as the Centre's academic director. It also includes official university records documenting the establishment, development, and operation of the USD program by Winston as director of the program. Activities, topics and events documented include correspondence with family, friends and colleagues; education and career records; research awards; SFU teaching notes, course outlines, and exams; Bee Masters course notes and planning records; graduate student supervision files; research notes, book drafts, manuscript submissions and published copies; financial working papers and grant applications; consulting correspondence; organization of the Apimondia '99 conference held in Vancouver; participation in local and international professional apiculture and other organizations; and the establishment and administration of the USD and Centre for Dialogue programs. The types of documents include correspondence, transcripts, contracts, reports, research notes, agendas and minutes, certificates, budget reports, books, newspapers and journals, photographs, teaching slides, interview tapes, and audio visual materials. Fonds is arranged into 9 series: 1. Family, education and career records 2. Correspondence 3. Teaching records 4. Research records 5. Grant and funding records 6. Consulting records 7. Apimondia '99 Conference 8. Professional organizations 9. Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue and Centre for Dialogue records
Series consists of records relating to Mark Winston's family and his academic and employment career and includes personal correspondence with family and friends; elementary and high school report cards and university transcripts; student employment correspondence and records; Simon Fraser University career records and curriculum vitae; research and teaching awards; published media stories about Winston's research; and childhood photographs of Winston, his family, friends, as an academic at SFU, colleagues, annual photos of his research students nicknamed the "Swarm Team," places, and events. Records include correspondence, transcripts, reports, research notes, application forms, certificates, publications, photographs, and slides. Series is arranged into 7 sub-series: 1. Personal correspondence 2. Education 3. Employment correspondence 4. SFU career records 5. Awards 6. Media 7. Photographs
Series consists of records relating to Mark Winston's correspondence throughout his academic career and includes correspondence sent and received as a graduate student in French Guiana, a young academic writing to other universities about his pre-SFU research; and as a SFU professor responding to colleagues, the general public, organizations, and government agencies.
Series consists of records relating to Mark Winston's position as a professor of Biological Sciences at Simon Fraser University, as a professor and Fellow in SFU's Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue program and Centre for Dialogue, and as an instructor in related dialogue, facilitation, and leadership courses and programs. Of particular note are the Knowledge Network "Bees and Beekeeping" televised course written and delivered by Winston; the Bee Masters course offered to the public; graduate student supervision and research records; and two SFU Apiculture "Heavenly Honey" t-shirts. Also included are lecture notes for one pre-SFU course taught by Winston. Records include correspondence, lecture notes, handouts, assignments, exams, working papers, reports, certificates, photographs, slides, and audio-visual materials. Series is arranged into 6 sub-series: 1. Pre-SFU courses 2. SFU courses 3. Bee Masters course 4. SFU graduate student files 5. Audio-visual and photographic materials 6. Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue and related courses
Televised course Winston wrote and delivered, developed in 1982 and broadcast by the Knowledge Network in 1983. Produced by the Department of Biological Sciences and SFU's Learning and Instructional Development Centre, with contributions by Walter Griba, Frank Cambell, Chris Hildred, and Elizabeth Carefoot.
Series consists of records relating to Mark Winston's scholarly research and publications and includes research notes and working papers on apiculture and biology; work with artist Aganetha Dyck; newspaper and journal articles appearing in "Bee Culture," "The Vancouver Sun," "The Globe and Mail," "New York Times," and appearance on National Public Radio in the United States; research notes, drafts and published versions of scientific manuscripts; books authored by Winston; speeches, slides, and overheads used at local, national and international conferences and presentations; television interviews and media stories about Winston's research; and photographic slides pertaining to field research primarily on beekeeping, but also entomology and marine biology. Records include correspondence, working papers, reports, contracts, interviews, draft manuscripts, publications, slides, and audio-visual materials. Series is arranged into 6 sub-series: 1. General research 2. Newspaper and journal articles 3. Manuscripts 4. Books 5. Conferences and presentations 6. Audio-visual and photographic materials
Consists of one digital file, a PowerPoint presentation.
Contains 16 digital photographs (jpeg format).
Item is a VHS recording of a Vancouver Institute lecture given by Dr. Mark Winston on February 12, 2000. Lecture was co-sponsored by Simon Fraser University.
Series consists of records relating to Mark Winston's research grants while at Simon Fraser University and includes applications and correspondence with his graduate students and local, provincial, and national granting agencies such as SFU Special Research Projects, the BC Honey Producers Association, the Science Council of BC, Killam Foundation, NSERC, the National Research Council, Agriculture Canada, the EJLB Foundation, and companies including Monsanto and Bayer. Records include correspondence, reports, budget and financial working papers, applications and contracts, and brochures.
Series consists of records relating to Mark Winston's role as an expert in the field of apiculture and includes correspondence with law firms, businesses, the news media, and work with film and television production companies reviewing scripts and "bee wrangling" on set. Series also consists of records relating to Winston's role as an expert in dialogue, facilitation, and leadership for various businesses, governments, and NGOs. Of particular note is his extensive consulting work with Action Canada. Records include correspondence, contracts and invoices, reports, scripts and storyboards, working papers, presentation notes, and audio-visual materials. Series is arranged into 2 sub-series: 1. Apiculture 2. Dialogue and facilitation
Item is a video recording of a television broadcast of "Drone," episode 18, season one of Smallville, aired on Global TV in 2002.
Series consists of records relating to Mark Winston's role as Program Chair for the Apimondia '99 conference held in Vancouver, BC in 1999 and includes correspondence with the Organizing Committee, presenters, vendors, and conference and hotel venues; promotion and local news publicity announcements; contracts and budget papers; volunteer supervision; and conference program packages. Records include correspondence, working papers, reports, minutes, conference proceedings, publications, slides, photographs, and promotional materials.
Includes 1 pdf file slideshow of 58 images.
Series consists of records relating to Mark Winston's correspondence with, and participation on, local, national and international apiculture and other organizations. Records include correspondence, working papers, agendas, minutes, reports, grant applications, newsletters and publications. Series is arranged into 13 sub-series: 1. Biocontrol Network External Advisory Board 2. BC Honey Producers Association (BCHPA) 3. BC Pollination Working Group 4. Canadian Association of Professional Apiculturists (CAPA) 5. Canadian Bees Research Foundation (CBRF) 6. International Bee Research Association (IBRA) 7. International Union for the Study of Social Insects (IUSSI) 8. Pacific National Exhibition Apiculture Committee 9. Pollen Bee Foundation Inc. 10. Professional Pest Management Association of BC (PPMA) 11. Western Apiculture Society (WAS) 12. Friends of the Environment 13. Other organizations
Series consists of records documenting the establishment and development of SFU's Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue (USD) program by Mark Winston in his capacity as director of the program. It also includes records relating to the development of SFU's Centre for Dialogue and its programs by Winston in his capacity as the Centre's academic director and as a fellow. Records include correspondence, agendas, minutes, reports, proposals, photographs, and other materials. The series is arranged into 2 sub-series in order to keep separate the records of the USD program, which entail administrative records created and received by Winston in the course of his activities in founding, developing, and sustaining this academic program for the university. These materials are unique and considered university records. However, because Winston created and received these university records as he created and received his personal papers, the archivist opted to keep them in Winston's fonds rather than remove them to a university fonds. Series is arranged into 2 sub-series: 1. Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue program 2. Centre for Dialogue
Sub-series consists of records documenting the establishment and development of SFU's Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue (USD) program by Mark Winston in his capacity as director of the program. Since the records are originals and were created and received by Winston in the course of his activities in founding, developing, and sustaining this academic program for the university, they are considered official university records. Records include correspondence, agendas, minutes, reports, proposals, budgets, and photographs.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the development of SFU's Centre for Dialogue and its programs by Mark Winston in his capacity as the Centre's academic director and as a fellow. Unlike the USD program records, these materials are not considered official university records as they are not unique and are reflected in the records still held by the Centre itself. Records include correspondence, agendas, minutes, reports, proposals, and background literature.
The Archives established the Sterling Prize Collection in 2000 at the suggestion of Professor Ted Sterling, who, with his wife Nora, established the Sterling Prize for Controversy in 1993. According to the terms of reference for the prize, it may be given for work in any field including—but not limited to—fine arts, humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and education. The primary aim of the prize is to encourage daring, creative, controversial, unconventional, and non-traditional work at SFU that also meets high standards and is morally and ethically sound. An ancillary aim is to encourage the study, at SFU, of the role of the controversial. The prize is normally awarded to a member of the SFU community—students, faculty, staff, or alumni. The winner is selected by the Sterling Prize Committee, composed of faculty. student and staff representatives. Dr. Sterling, Professor Emeritus at SFU, was the founder of the University’s computing science program in 1973, and is an expert in computational epidemiology and the social implications of computing. He was awarded an honorary degree by SFU in 2001. For further information on Ted and Nora Sterling and the Sterling Prize, see the file "Background Information." In 2000, the archivist asked each previous Sterling Prize winner to give the Archives a copy of his or her Sterling Prize lecture. Some winners were able to supply a prepared text; other winners spoke from notes and supplied these. The archivist added more information to the files including announcements, press releases, articles from Simon Fraser News, print-outs from the Sterling Prize website, (http://www.sfu.ca/sterlingprize/) and other documents. SFU Media and Public Relations gave the Archives a cassette copy of Russel Ogden’s lecture for 1995. Please note that there was no prize winner for 1996. For a list of speakers included in the collection, see Access Points.
Contains terms of reference for the Sterling Prize materials and individual files on each prize winner.
Fonds consists of records relating to the personal and academic activites of Ann Messenger. Activities, events and topics documented include Messenger's social and academic activities while attending college and university; her marriage to Bill Messenger; her career as an academic, including her experiences as a young professor at Simon Fraser University; and her academic activities, including her research, writings, and publications. Fonds also includes correspondence of Bill Messenger and his father, Edmund Messenger. Records include correspondence; publications, papers, articles, and reviews; notes, assignments, and examinations; course outlines, lesson plans, and lecture and tutorial notes; typescripts and proofs; journals; photographs and postcards; applications and appointment forms; and a text book.
Series consists of correspondence between Ann Messenger and her parents, and incoming correspondence from friends.
Sub-series consists of Ann Messenger's correspondence with her parents, Raymond and Lillian Parshall. Correspondence includes letters written to her parents while she was studying at Oberlin College, Oxford University, and Cornell University. Correspondence also includes letters written while Messenger was working at Princeton University and after her marriage to Bill Messenger, while living in Philadelphia, California, and Vancouver, British Columbia. Includes details of Messenger's daily activities, including social and academic activities, her experiences as a young woman in the 1950s and 1960s, travels in Europe, and the general culture of the time. Vancouver correspondence refers to Ann and Bill's experiences as young professors at the University of British Columbia and Simon Fraser University. Sub-series also includes letters written to Ann, and Bill, by her parents between 1957 and 1974.
Sub-series consists of correspondence received by Messenger from friends, including friends that Messenger met while attending university and at work.
Series consists of records relating to Messenger's academic career and activities, in particular, her writings and correspondence of an academic nature. Includes material relating to the research, writing, editing, publishing, and distribution of articles and books written or edited by Messenger. Series also includes correspondence with colleagues involving collaboration or Messenger's advising on and editing of papers, articles, or other publications. Some material relates to Messenger's acceptance into graduate school, teaching position appointments, and sick leave. Records include correspondence, reviews, papers, journal, notes, proofs and typescripts, and application and appointment forms.
Sub-series consists of records relating to Messenger's academic activities, such as article and book writing and editing; research; criticism, review, editorial and advisory work for various publications and papers; and correspondence and collaboration with colleagues. Sub-series also contains some material pertaining to Messenger's applications for graduate school and teaching positions, position appointments, and sick leave. Records include correspondence, reviews, papers, a journal, notes, and application and appointment forms.
Sub-series consists of correspondence relating to Messenger's efforts to have a new edition of Ellis Cornelia Knight's "Dinarbas" published. Includes correspondence relating to her role as editor, the book's publication, and sales of the book.
Sub-series consists of correspondence and a proof relating to Messenger's research for, and the publication of, her book "Pastoral Tradition and the Female Talent: Studies in Augustan Poetry," which was published posthumously in 1999.
Sub-series consists of correspondence and a typescript relating to Messenger's book "Woman and Poet in the Eighteenth Century: The Life of Mary Whateley Darwall (1738-1825)," published posthumously in 1999. Correspondence relates to Messenger's research for the book, and its publication. Sub-series also includes correspondence of Bill Messenger pertaining to the publication and distribution of the book following Ann's death.
Series consists of records relating to Messenger's studies in literature at Oberlin College, Oxford University, and Cornell University. Includes papers, notes and assignments, examinations, and a text book.
Series consists of teaching materials used by Messenger at Bucknell University, the University of California, San Francisco State University, the University of British Columbia, and Simon Fraser University. Includes course outlines, lesson plans, lecture and tutorial notes, assignments, examinations, and readings.
Series consists of publications and excerpts of publications containing academic articles and papers by Messenger, and a copy of a bibliographical entry for "Gender at Work."
Series consists of photographs of Ann and Bill Messenger and their house in Point Grey, as well as photographs of Ann's parents and their visits to Ann and Bill in Vancouver in the mid-1960s.
Series consists of Bill Messenger's incoming correspondence, 1946 to 1956, and outgoing correspondence, 1950 to 1954, and 1970. Incoming correspondence includes letters from friends, his aunt, and the University of Washington, which he attended from 1955 to 1956. Series also includes report cards received by Bill while attending Everett Senior High School, between 1946 and 1948. Outgoing correspondence consists mainly of letters and photographs sent to his parents, Edmund and Inge Therese (Tess) Messenger, and to his grandmother and his aunt while he was in the air force, 1951 to 1954. Correspondence pertains to family matters, as well as his air force training and activities.
Series consists of correspondence of Ann Messenger's father-in-law, Edmund (Ed) Messenger. Includes correspondence to his family and a journal written during his military service in World War One. Activities, events and topics documented include his military work and Radio Operator training; life on board ship; his travels; his view of war events; his trial and acquittal for disregarding military censorship protocol; celebrations at the end of the war; the burning and sinking of the USS Pennsylvania; as well as his military service after the war and his father's efforts on his behalf to have him discharged after the war. Includes postcards collected during his service, and photographs of Ed, fellow service men, and places that he travelled to during his service. Later correspondence includes a letter to his mother in 1951 concerning his son Bill's activities, correspondence to Bill in the 1950s, and correspondence to Bill and Ann in the 1960s, relating mainly to his activities and those of family friends. Although a few early letters include accounts of his wife Tess and her activities, the majority of this correspondence dates from after her death in January 1964.
Fonds consists of records relating to the activities of the Office of the President and the Board of Governors. Activities, events and topics documented include the establishment and development of TechBC and its programs; early governance, including the activities of the Interim Planning Council and the Interim Governing Board for TechBC; meetings of the Board of Governors and various other university committees and boards; campus development; budgeting, fundraising, and other financial management activities; human resources management; public relations activities; and external co-operation and liaison activities, including TechBC's relationship with the Provincial Government. Records include terms of reference, minutes, agendas, and supporting papers; correspondence; reports, papers, proposals, academic plans, and working papers; subject files; audit reports, budgets, grant applications, and financial statements; reference manuals and policy statements; contracts and agreements; personnel files and job descriptions; course outlines, program outlines, and academic calendars; presentations and speeches; booklets, brochures, and promotional material; press releases, newspaper articles, journal articles, and newsletters; photographs; videocassettes; audio cassettes; architectural drawings; and artifacts.
Series consists of records relating to the activities of the President and Office of the President of the Technical University of British Columbia. Activities, events and topics documented include activities of the Interim Planning Council, Interim Governing Board, and university committees and boards; academic issues, including academic and program planning activities, as well as research and external affairs activities; campus and administrative structures development; community relations activities; financial and fundraising activities; human resources, information services, legal affairs, and systems management; as well as external co-operation and liaison activities. Series also includes records relating to TechBC, accumulated by the Office of the President for reference or historical value. Records include correspondence; reports, papers, proposals, briefs, business, education and academic plans; terms of reference, minutes, agendas, and supporting papers; presentations and speeches; manuals; course outlines, program outlines, and academic calendars; personnel files, job descriptions, contracts and letters of appointment; financial statements, grant applications, audits, and budgets; agreements; legislation; membership information; booklets, brochures, and promotional material; press releases, newspaper articles, journal articles, newsletters; event notices and invitations; notes; videocassettes, audiocassettes, photographs; architectural drawings; and artifacts.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Academic Planning Board. Records include terms of reference, minutes and supporting papers, and membership lists.
Sub-series consists of records relating to meetings of the Board of Governors, and the President's Executive Advisory Committee. Records include minutes and supporting papers, and reference manuals.
Sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's establishment and development of academic and research programs; policies and procedures; and collaboration with external research, science and technology based organizations. Records include reports, proposals and business plans; correspondence; minutes, agendas, and supporting papers; agreements; applications and requests for proposals; program outlines; terms of reference; presentations; booklets, brochures, and promotional material; annual reports; notes; and press releases.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the establishment and development of academic programs, policies, and procedures for TechBC. Activities and topics documented include faculty and staff policy and procedures; academic planning; student admissions, scholarships, and tuition; course and program development; activities of the Degree Program Review Committee; development of an Education Management System; faculty meetings; activities of the Program Advisory Committees for the Information Technology, Interactive Arts, Management and Technology, and Multimedia Studies programs; student council development; and activities of the University Review Committee, Faculty Promotions Committee, and TechBC Award Committee. Records include reports and proposals; minutes, agendas and supporting papers; correspondence; program outlines; terms of reference; requests for proposals; and notes.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC research and external affairs activities. Activities, events and topics documented include TechBC's efforts to establish partnerships and links with various private corporations and the public sector, including various scientific and research institutes and councils, in order to develop TechBC's research and educational programs; participation in projects and other collaborative activities with these groups, including participation in forums and on boards; acquisition of funding to support the University's research activities; and the development of TechBC Corporation, an applied research company owned by TechBC and created to develop new technologies, incubate new companies, supply consulting services, and provide education to high tech companies. Records include reports, proposals, and business plans; correspondence; agreements; applications; presentations; booklets, brochures, and promotional material; annual reports; agendas; notes; and press releases.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the general administration of the University and the development of its programs, services, and physical presence. Records include correspondence; reports, position papers, briefs, and working papers; minutes, terms of reference, and supporting papers; agreements; financial reports; promotional material; architectural drawings; legislation; lists; and reference material.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration of TechBC. Activities, events and topics documented include the planning and establishment of the University and its services; the goals, mission and values of the University; its economic mandate; official university committees; and university history. Includes minutes of the Priorities Implementation Group and some records relating to the University Ethics Research Committee and the Knowledge Assets Management Sub-group. Records include correpondence; minutes, terms of reference and supporting papers; reports, position papers, and briefs; legislation; lists; and reference material.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the determination and development of a permanent location for the University. Activities, events and topics documented include temporary accommodation arrangements; the consideration of various sites; negotiations with the Provincial government for a permanent location; negotiations with the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC) for the Surrey City Central site; the design of and acquisition of funds for the building at the City Central site; and the development of a facilities program for the City Central campus. Records include correspondence; reports, briefs, and working papers; minutes and supporting papers; agreements; financial reports; promotional material; and architectural drawings.
Sub-series consists of records relating to community and public relations activities of the University and its Community Relations Department. Activities, events and topics documented include community relations and awareness, including participation in community events and activities, media relations, communications strategies, campus development, special events, and student recruitment. Records include press releases and newspaper articles; promotional material; interviews, speeches, and presentations; reports; videos; and photographs.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the financial resources of the University. Activities documented include audits, and the preparation of budgets and business plans. Records include financial reports, such as audits and budgets, and business plans
Sub-series consists of records relating to fundraising activities for TechBC carried out by the Fraser Valley University Society and the Technical University of British Columbia Foundation. Activities, events and topics documented include the Fraser Valley University Society's involvement in raising funds for the new university, special fundraising events, and the development of the Foundation. Records include minutes and supporting papers; correspondence; reports; financial statements; press releases; transcripts of speeches; lists; invitations; and a constitution.
Sub-series consists of records relating to staff and faculty positions at the Technical University of British Columbia. Activities, events and topics documented include the recruiting, hiring and training of staff and faculty; terms of employment, job duties and responsibilities; goals and accomplishments of senior faculty members; contracting of Human Resources consultants; performance management; and the activities of the University's Pension Committee. Records include personnel files; job descriptions; contracts and letters of appointment; minutes and supporting papers; correspondence and memoranda; lists; reports and manuals; and notes.
Sub-series consists of articles relating to the Technical University of British Columbia. Events and topics documented include government support of TechBC, campus construction, particularly with regard to the ICBC partnership, programs of study offered by TechBC, University faculty and staff, and the political atmosphere surrounding the University. Records include copies of newspaper and journal articles.
Sub-series consists of legal records of TechBC. Includes records documenting legal advice obtained by TechBC for various reasons, including the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) boycott of TechBC; student-faculty relations; the development of Bill 30; TechBC policy development; agreements with other universities; and intellectual property, trademarks, copyright, and Freedom of Information legislation issues. Includes also records pertaining to financial audits, property leases, and insurance. Records include correspondence; reports and policies; agreements; financial statements; terms of reference; legislation, constitutions and bylaws; and articles.
Sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's collaboration and liaison with other universities and colleges; municipal, provincial and federal governments; external organizations, associations, councils, and committees; and the community. Records include correspondence; reports, proposals, papers, and briefing notes; minutes and supporting papers; booklets, promotional and conference material, event notices, and invitations; presentations; newspaper articles, press releases, and newsletters; financial statements and grant applications; contracts; and notes.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's liaison and co-operation activities with various associations, committees and councils, provincially, nationally, and in the United States. Includes records relating to TechBC's involvement with the Advanced Education Council of BC (AECBC), Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada (AUCC), BC Council on Admissions & Transfers (BCCAT), Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT), Confederation of University Faculty Associations of BC (CUFA/BC), Ministry Joint Planning Committee, Society for College & University Planning (SCUP), The University President's Council (TUPC), and University Public Sector Employees Association (UPSEA). Records include correspondence; minutes and supporting papers; reports, papers, speeches and presentations; promotional and conference material; newsletters and newspaper articles.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's relations with other universities in British Columbia, including Royal Roads University, the University of Northern B.C., and the University of Victoria. Also included are records pertaining to the proposed Sea to Sky University Project. Records include correspondence; reports and presentations; academic, education and business plans; newspaper articles; promotional material, and invitations.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's participation in non-University committees and associations of an educational, technological and scientific nature. Includes committees and associations at the local, provincial and national level. Among the committees and associations represented in the records are the Lower Mainland Education CEOs (G-27 and G-28), the Provincial Learning Network (PLNet), Canadian Foundation for Innovation (CFI), and Canadian Network for the Advancement of Research, Industry and Education (CANARIE Inc.). Activities, events and topics documented include TechBC's involvement in collaborative projects, applications for grants and funding, and participation at meetings, conferences and special events. Records include correspondence; reports and papers; minutes; speeches and presentations; grant applications and financial statements; notes; and newsletters and press releases.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's involvement with business and community organizations, locally and provincially. Records include correspondence; reports; minutes; newsletters, events notices, and promotional material; and membership information.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's correspondence and co-operation and liaison activities with the Federal Government, including government councils, commissions and committees. Records include correspondence, reports, booklets and press releases.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's co-operation and liaison activities with various municipal governments, particularly the City of Surrey and the Greater Vancouver Regional District. Activities, events and topics documented include location proposals for the University and its eventual situation in Surrey, correspondence and meetings with the City of Surrey Council, meetings between TechBC and various community groups in Surrey, and TechBC's involvement in establishing community and economic development plans for the City of Surrey. Records include correspondence; minutes; reports; booklets, brochures and other promotional material; newspaper articles; and notes.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's correspondence, co-operation and liaison activities, and general relations with the Provincial Government. Activities, events and topics documented include government funding and support for TechBC's development, including the designation of a permanent site; the President's participation in government committees, councils, summits and other meetings; correspondence and collaboration with MLAs, particularly Penny Priddy and Sue Hammell; liaison and co-operation with various Ministries, including the Ministry of Advanced Education, Training, and Technology, the Ministry of Labour, and the Ministry of Employment and Investment; and the government's support of post-secondary education and technology training in general. Records include correspondence; reports and briefing notes; minutes; booklets, newspaper articles, press releases, and newletters; presentations; and notes.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to TechBC's liaison activities with other post-secondary institutions, and includes material regarding British Columbia universities, university-colleges, colleges, and institutes in general, as well as records relating to TechBC's relations with Canadian universities outside of British Columbia. Records include correspondence, reports, minutes, and newsletters.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the position and activities of the President of TechBC. Activities, events and topics documented include Presidential recruiting and compensation; speeches made by the President, President's Annual Reports; activities of the President's Executive Advisory Committee (PEAC); and Vice-Presidential duties, objectives and activities. Records include correspondence; reports, papers, speeches and presentations; minutes, agendas and supporting documents; annual reports; and contracts.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the development of computer, internet, telecommunications, information technology, and administrative systems and networks at TechBC. Includes records documenting the activities of the TechBC Systems Planning and Development Advisory Committee (SPDAC) and University participation in the BCNet Society. Records include correspondence; reports, proposals, briefs, and presentations; minutes, agendas, and supporting papers; newspaper articles; and reference material.
Sub-series consists of reference files maintained by the Office of the President relating to academic planning, tenure, and legal issues. Records include correspondence, photocopied articles, and notes.
Sub-series consists of records compiled and created by a contract researcher hired by the Office of the President. Includes files of documents relating to the Fraser Valley University Society and TechBC, compiled by the researcher to write a history of TechBC and to create an Archives for the University. Records also include working papers and drafts of the "History of the Technical University of British Columbia" and an inventory of Fraser Valley University Society records in TechBC's custody. The sub-series also includes records relating to research performed concerning applied science and research programs; proposed partnerships with corporations, industry, BCIT and Simon Fraser University; and other reports relating to the development of the University. Records include reports; correspondence; working papers and notes; minutes; promotional material, brochures, newspaper articles and press releases; and legislation. Records include both photocopies and originals.
Sub-series consists of records selected by the President as historically significant to TechBC. Activities, events and topics documented include activities of the Interim Planning Council and the Interim Governing Board; the dispute over tenure with the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT); historical milestones in the development of the University; the determination of its location; partnerships formed with private corporations, post-secondary institutions, and other organizations; the search for the first President and CEO; Executive, staff and other meetings; presentations and talks given by the President to external groups; Core Services Review of TechBC; and the University's participation in the BC High Technology Strategy. Records include correspondence; reports; minutes; booklets, brochures, promotional material, newspaper articles, and press releases; academic calendars; presentations; financial records; lists; photographs; compact disk; and legislation.
Sub-series consists of records maintained by the Office of the President for historical purposes. Activities, events and topics documented include the establishment and development of TechBC; the Fraser Valley University Society's role in the creation of TechBC; opening of the University; the political and educational climate surrounding the University's development; the President's daily activities; program and services development; funding; and television and radio interviews. Records include Internal Planning Reports produced in 1996 and 1997 to facilitate the planning of the University. Records include reports and proposals; correspondence; brochures; calendars; minutes and agendas; presentations; course outlines; working papers; notes; day calendar; certificate of incorporation; and videocassettes, audiocassettes, and artifacts.
Legislative Channel 07 Nov 01, 9:00 PT re: open cabinet meeting -Nick Geer, CEO ICBC -Tech BC 1. Nick Geer 04 min 2. Greg Halsey-Brandt, 02m 30s 3. Gulzar Cheema, 02m
21 Nov. 01, CIVT-TV, 18:12, B. Good/P. Martin, 1:30 m Re: No Government Funding for Tech BC
Sub-series consists of records relating to Sheehan's participation as a member of the Interim Planning Council (IPC) and the Interim Governing Board (IGB) for TechBC. Includes reference files created by Sheehan relating to the activities of the Fraser Valley University Society. Activities, events and topics documented include the Fraser Valley University Society's role in the establishment of the University; meetings of the IPC and IGB; the development of TechBC's mission, mandate, and establishing legislation; the planning of academic programs, university governance, and facilities; budget development and acquisition of government funding; policy development; establishment of campus location; hiring of faculty; liaison with the Provincial Government, including the Ministry of Education, Skills and Training and Surrey MLAs; the CAUT boycott; public relations activities carried out on behalf of TechBC; as well as biographical and other information regarding IPC members. Records include minutes, agendas, and supporting papers; correspondence; articles and press releases; reports; budgets and financial statements; constitutions, bylaws and legislation; biographical material; and photographs.
Series consists of records relating to the activities of the Board of Governors and its committees. Activities, events and topics documented include the composition, duties, responsibilities, and activities of the Board; meetings of the Board and its committees; the establishment of University budgets; University finances; Presidential recruitment; Presidential reports to the Board; human resources issues; and campus development. Records include terms of reference, minutes, agendas, and supporting papers; correspondence and reports; subject files; budgets and financial statements; working papers; reference manuals and policy statements; member lists; contracts; press releases; presentations; and photographs.
Sub-series consists of administrative files relating to the composition and activities of the Board of Governors. Activities, events and topics documented include Board duties, responsibilities, and elections; appointments to the Board; Board member biographical information and photographs; hiring of the first President; the President's reports to the Board; the Committee of the Whole Discussion on Assessment of the President; correspondence and relations with the Ministry of Advanced Education, Training and Technology; early University planning; and the announcement and construction of the Surrey City Centre site. Records include correspondence, reports, subject files, reference manuals, policy statements, presentations, and photographs.
Sub-series consists of records relating to Tech BC budget preparation. Activities, events and topics documented include salary and budget determination; government funding; project statements; and meetings of the University Budget Committee and the Budget and Finance Committee. Records include budgets and financial statements; reports; working papers; minutes and supporting papers; and correspondence.
Sub-series consists of minutes and supporting papers relating to regular and in-camera meetings of the Board of Governors.
Sub-series consists of records relating to Board of Governors committees. Activities, events and topics documented include committee meetings and membership, as well as the specific activities and responsibilities of each committee. Records include terms of reference and membership lists; agendas, minutes, and supporting papers; correspondence and reports; budgets and financial statements; press releases; and contracts.
Sub-series consists of lists of Board of Governors committees and voting and non-voting committee members.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to meetings of the Academic Planning Board. Records include minutes and supporting papers and a reference manual.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Audit Committee, sometimes also referred to as the Finance and Audit Committee. Activities, events and topics documented include Committee meetings, budget preparation, and correspondence with the Auditor General's Office. Records include terms of reference; minutes and supporting papers; correspondence; financial statements; and an information package.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the Business and Finance Committee. Activities, events and topics documented include Committee meetings and membership, and University budgets and financial issues. Records include minutes and supporting papers; correspondence; budgets and financial statements; and membership lists.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Executive Committee of the Board. Records include minutes and supporting papers, and a membership list.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Human Resources Committee, originally named the Employee Relations Committee. Includes also some records pertaining to meetings of the TechBC Pension Committee and the Senior Compensation Committee. Records include minutes and supporting papers, and a membership list.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Presidential Search Committee, which was created in the fall of 2000 to select a successor to Bernard Sheehan. Records include terms of reference; membership lists; correspondence; press releases; a contract; and a curriculum vitae.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Senior Compensation Committee. Activities, events and topics documented include Committee meetings, as well as Presidential objectives, annual reports and contracts. Records include minutes and supporting papers; reports and correspondence; and contracts.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the activities and composition of the University Review Committee. Records include correspondence, membership lists, and a course outline.
The fonds consists of three notebooks that pertain to the negotiation of a first contract between AUCE Local 2 and the University, negotiation for subsequent contracts, the strike of 1979, and the formation of a teaching assistant's union. Also includes four photographs and a t-shirt.
Collection consists of biographical information on the Palmers including an article from SFU Comment magazine; a binder (refiled in folders) on the history of the Department of Chemistry prepared by Evelyn T. Palmer; a group of files about the Albert Einstein Memorial Lecture Series (files F-182-0-0-0-4 to F-182-0-0-0-25 ) as well as reel-to-reel tapes and cassette recordings of the lectures; and a binder (refiled in folders) on various Faculty of Science lecture series organized by the Palmers. Collection includes correspondence, programs, posters, publications and other documents.
Collection consists of records relating to Vivien Leong's activities as a member of the Simon Fraser Public Interest Research Group (SFPIRG) Recycling Group and a member of the Communications Student Union. Collection includes agendas, minutes, correspondence, publications, posters, anti-calendars, and other documents.
The fonds consists of records relating to the editorial, business and community activities of Press Gang Publishers. Activities and events documented include the evolution of Press Gang's organizational structure, and the separation of the printing and publishing operations; administration; collective, staff, Board of Directors and committee meetings; financial management, and grant applications; the management of royalties and rights; editorial work including manuscript receipt and evaluation; the physical production of Press Gang books; the promotion and marketing or Press Gang titles; and liaison with other feminist and publishing organizations. Record types includes correspondence and reports; meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers; photographs; grant applications and financial statements; contracts and agreements; manuscripts; book reviews and promotional material; photographs; and published books.
Series consists of records relating to the administration and organization of Press Gang Publishers. Activities, events and topics documented include organizational history, governance and meetings, and daily office administration. Records include correspondence, reports, meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers, and log books.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the organizational structure and history of Press Gang Publishers. Activities, events and topics documented include the separation of the Publishers from the Press Gang Printers collective in 1989, the evolution and restructuring of the organization, long-term planning, work agreements, the alliance with Polestar Book Publishers, Press Gang Publishers' twentieth anniversary, and the design of the company's website and letterhead. Records include correspondence, agreements, meeting minutes, catalogues, questionnaires, company profiles, reprints and articles about Press Gang, and notes and working papers.
Sub-series consists of records relating to Press Gang Publishers' meetings, including staff and collective meetings, committees, and the Board of Directors. Records include minute books, agendas, reports, notes and other working papers.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the day-to-day transactions and administration of the Press Gang Publishers office. Records include registers and telephone message logbooks.
Press Gang Publishers participated in federal and provincial funding that supported the publishing industry, including programs of the Canada Council for the Arts, the British Columbia Arts Council, the Book Publishing Industry Development Program, and the Association for the Export of Canadian Books. This series consists primarily of records relating to Press Gang Publishers' management of its grant applications and projects. It also includes some files relating to the organization's finances more generally. Records include correspondence; eligibility guidelines and other program-related material; and grant application forms, reports and supporting documentation (including title analysis reports, agreements, company profiles, operating data forms, financial statements, claims forms, receipts, invoices, financial statements, promotion schedules, and notes and working papers).
Series consists of records relating to Press Gang Publishers' management of the legal rights pertaining to its publications, including royalties, distribution, use, publication and translation rights. Activities, events and topics documented include negotiations with authors and agents, distribution and subsidiary rights agreements with distributors and other publishers, and payment of royalties. Records include correspondence, agreements and contracts, permissions, sales reports and registers, and royalties statements.
Series consists of records relating to Press Gang Publishers' editorial activities, including manuscript receipt and evaluation, and editorial preparation of manuscripts for publication. Records include correspondence, reports, manuscript drafts, and registers.
Press Gang Publishers registered all manuscripts it received for evaluation for publication. For each manuscript, the register records the date received, the author's name and address, the title and type of work, the Press Gang reader, and the response (rejected or solicited more material). The register was originally maintained manually in a logbook format. There appears to have been an Access database for a short time (1995-1996) as well. This sub-series consists of the three logbooks covering the period up to 1995 and a file of printed reports generated in 1996 from the database.
Sub-series consists of correspondence files relating to the editing of manuscripts for publication. Activities documented include manuscript evaluation, editing, copy-editing, proofreading, copyright clearance, and development of promotional material such as cover quotes and book descriptions. Records include correspondence with authors and editors, drafts with revisions and annotations, reader's reports and notes, agreements and contracts, permission and release forms, author biographies and CVs, catalogue descriptions and other promotional copy, invoices, notes, and working papers.
Sub-series consists of draft manuscripts, annotated with editors' revisions, and copyeditors and proofreaders marks.
Press Gang Publishers responded to manuscript submissions and book proposals by either declining to publish the material (rejections) or requesting additional material for further evaluation (solicitations). This sub-series consists of records relating to these decisions. Records include correspondence, proposals, manuscript samples, notes, and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the physical production of books. Activities documented include book and jacket design, proof-reading, costing, and printing. Records include correspondence, contracts and agreements, galleys, mock-ups, photographs, negatives, dust jackets, proof-readers' reports, printing estimates and quotes, order forms, invoices, and purchase orders.
Series consists of records relating to promoting and marketing the various titles published by Press Gang. Activities, events and topics documented include the preparation of publicity material about authors and books, catalogues of Press Gang titles, book reviews, book fairs, book launches, and authors' tours. Records include reviews and review correspondence, other correspondence, biographical material about authors, press releases, flyers, posters, mailing lists, dust jackets, and travel itineraries.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the general promotion and marketing of Press Gang titles. Activities, events and topics documented include tours, book launches, and book fairs. Records include correspondence, reviews, flyers, sales kits, and other documents.
Sub-series consists of a run of Press Gang catalogues and sample posters from the 1990s as well as sample catalogues from earlier periods.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the promoting and marketing of Press Gang titles. Activities, events and topics documented include book reviews, authors' tours, and book launches. Records include reviews, correspondence, itineraries, biographies and cv's, press releases and other publicity material.
Series consists of Press Gang Publishers' general subject files, reflecting their political and professional interests and their links with other organizations in feminist networks and in the publishing industry. Topics and activities documented include censorship, racism, feminist, lesbian and gay issues; liaison with other feminist organizations; ISBN and cataloguing information; and membership in publishers' associations and professional advocacy. Records include correspondence, reports and briefs, photographs, Canadian Cataloguing in Publication (CIP) Data Forms, questionnaires, directory listings forms, project proposals, notes and working papers, newsletters, catalogues, articles and other printed reference material.
18 photographs
Series consists of photographic records relating to Press Gang authors. The photos were primarily used for publicity, promotion, and book jackets. Records include photographs and negatives.
Series consists of the archive copies of books published by Press Gang. Two copies of each book have been retained where possible.
From 1969 to 1970, Mackauer served as vice-president of the Simon Fraser University Faculty Assocation (SFUFA), and from 1970 to 1971 he served as SFUFA's president. During his time on the SFUFA executive, the university underwent a period of unrest culminating in the strike of eight faculty members in the Political Science, Sociology, and Anthropology (PSA) Department. After the Board of Governors fired three of the suspended professors and cancelled part of the university's document protecting faculty rights, the SFUFA executive called for a vote of non-confidence in the Board and SFU President Kenneth Strand. When faculty members rejected the executive's recommendation, Mackauer and three other members of the executive resigned. Collection consists primarily of the SFUFA president's correspondence during the PSA crisis. In addition, there is some correspondence concerning other matters of interest to faculty members such as salary negotiations, pensions, and sabbatical leave. Records include correspondence, clippings, notes, minutes, legal statements, reports and other documents.
The collection consists of a draft commentary regarding SFU history, several pieces of correspondence relating to Lolita Wilson's career at SFU, a 1973 oral history interview of Wilson by Liisa Fagerlund (University Archivist at the time), and a copy of the first admissions packet to SFU from the University's opening in 1965. Collection also includes a five-minute cassette, "Sounds of SFU," recorded by arts student Robert Mcaninch in 1970.
Fonds consists of records relating to the organization and activities of the Sons of Scotland Benevolent Association, particularly District No. 16 (British Columbia), and several of its subordinate camps, including Glamis Camp No. 210, Glengarry Camp No. 212, Lord Tweedsmuir Camp No. 209, Murray Camp No. 215, and Royal Scot Camp No. 172. Activities, events, and topics documented include the rules, rituals, and organization of the Association; the founding and development of some of the subordinate camps; meetings, activities, events, finances, and membership of District No. 16, its subordinate camps and, to a lesser degree, the Grand Camp; and correspondence and interaction among subordinate camps, as well as between subordinate camps, District No. 16, and the Grand Camp. Records include minutes, minute books, and related papers; financial ledgers, cash books, financial statements, and financial reports; record books and note books; correspondence, reports, newsletters, and directories; constitutions and bylaws; lists; and programmes and promotional material.
Series consists of Sons of Scotland Benevolent Association constitutions and ritual procedures in booklet form. Constitutions and rituals apply to all Sons of Scotland camps; constitutions are revised and printed every three years.
Series consists of Sons of Scotland Benevolent Association, District No. 16 minute books and camp directories.
Sub-series consists of directories listing information about District No. 16 and all of the camps in the District. Directories include contact information for district, camp and also Grand Camp officers; meeting places and times; dates that camps were instituted; and a list of camp events. Includes directories for 1946, 1948, 1950 to 1962, and 1964-1991.
Sub-series consists of District No. 16 minutes books, September 1957 through January 1988. Minute books include roll calls of delegates.
Series consists of records relating to meetings and activities of the Glamis Camp. Records include minute books, with related correspondence and other papers, dating from the Camp's establishment in June 1937 until 1998. Minute books include lists of new members and rolls of camp officers. Correspondence is mainly with other camps.
Series consists of records relating to the Glengarry Camp. Activities, events and topics documented include meetings and other activities of the Camp, its Executive Committee, Entertainment Committee, and Ladies Auxiliary; joint meetings with Montrose Camp, and activities and events of Montrose Camp during that period; the financial management of the Camp; and its relations with other District No. 16 camps. Records include minutes and minute books; financial statements, balance sheets, and financial reports; record books and note books; bylaws; correspondence, reports, and newletters; and lists.
Sub-series consists of records relating to meetings and activities of the Glengarry Camp and its Entertainment and Executive Committees, including joint meetings held with Montrose Camp. Includes minutes and related papers and notations, as well as lists of members, officers, and visitors. Records include minutes and minute books; record books and note books; bylaws; correspondence; and financial statements and reports.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to Glengarry Camp general meetings and activities. Includes minutes and related papers; notations pertaining to Camp members and events; and books recording the names of visitors and members attending meetings. Minute books date back to the inaugural meeting, and include rolls of officers and new member lists. Includes minutes of joint meetings of the Glengarry and Montrose camps held between May 8, 1975 and the Montrose Camp's dissolution in May 1981. Related papers include 1944 Camp bylaws; correspondence with District No. 16 and Grand Camp secretaries; financial statements and reports; and District Committee minutes (1954, 1981). Records include minutes and minute books; record books and note books; bylaws; correspondence; financial statements and reports; and programmes.
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to meetings and activities of the Glengarry Camp Entertainment Committee. Records include minute books and related papers dating from January 1947 to November 1973. Minute books include rolls of officers. Related papers include 1939 Glengarry Camp bylaws and programmes for the Camp's Annual Burns Supper (1947-1961).
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to meetings and activities of the Glengarry Camp Executive Committee. Includes minutes of Executive Committee meetings (1958-1986), and notes taken at meetings, circa 1943 to 1949, regarding member information, Executive recommendations and motions, and other topics discussed at meetings. Records include minutes, minute books, and a note book.
Sub-series consists of financial records of the Glengarry Camp. Records include cash books, including a cash book for the Glengarry Social Club and a cash book relating to the Canadian Scottish Women's Corps; a Treasurer's book; membership dues accounts; and other financial statements.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the membership and activities of the Ladies Auxiliary of the Glengarry Camp. Records include minute books documenting Auxiliary meetings (1945-1967), and a membership dues book (1959-1970).
Sub-series consists of newsletters, correspondence, reports and other records documenting the Glengarry Camp's and, to a lesser degree, the Montrose Camp's activities, histories and traditions. Activities, events and topics documented include general Camp activities and special events; Glengarry Camp membership (1943-1946) and the names of past Chiefs for both camps; relations with other camps; and instructions for Marshall Openings. Includes a history of the Glengarry Camp for the period 1937 to 1957; Recording Secretary reports of Glengarry Camp activities, 1943 to 1968; a "Five Year History" of joint meetings with Montrose Camp, 1975 to 1980; Glengarry Camp newsletters (1968-1970); and joint Glengarry and Montrose Camp newsletters (circa 1980-1981). Also included are District No. 16 Committee by-laws (1971) and some newsletters of United Scottish Societies Auditorium Ltd. (1974-1981), a Vancouver company that the Glengarry Camp had shares in. Records include record books; reports, newletters, and correspondence; lists; by-laws; and balance sheets.
Series consists of records relating to meetings and activities of the Lord Tweedsmuir Camp. Records include minute books with related papers, such as financial statements, District No. 16 Committee minutes (1951-1960), and Grand Camp minutes (June 1942). Minute books also include new member lists and rolls of camp officers. Minutes for the years 1947 to 1950 are missing.
Series consists of records relating to the meetings, activities, and membership of the Murray Camp. Records include a minute book (October 1968 to June 1975) and a corresponding meeting attendance register (May 1969 to May 1975). Minute book includes related papers, member lists, and rolls of Camp officers.
Series consists of records relating to the Royal Scot Camp. Activities, events and topics documented include the founding of the Camp, as well as Camp meetings, general activities, and finances. Records include minute books and related papers; financial ledgers and cash books; a report; and promotional material.
Sub-series consists of minute books and related papers documenting the founding, meetings, and activities of the Royal Scot Camp. Minutes cover the years 1895 to 1899 and 1940 to 1969. Some books include lists of new and/or existing members, as well as a roll of officers. Related papers include a March 1969 "District Synopsis" for District No. 16.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the Camp's finances. Records include Financial Secretary ledgers (1916-1944), and cash books (1917-1943).
Sub-series consists of a promotional Sons of Scotland Benevolent Association folder used by the Royal Scot Camp.
The fonds of the Department of Physics consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the Department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The records consist chiefly of departmental administrative files (1965-1985), minutes of departmental meetings (1965-1973), records relating to research activities of faculty (1965-1985), personnel records (1965-1985), the Physics Summer School (1966-1979), and correspondence of the Chair (1971-1986). The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include correspondence, course outlines and examinations, an external review, faculty case files, memoranda, agenda and minutes of meetings, and reports. The files were arranged by the Department according to two different file classification systems. This original order has been maintained. Most of the records are arranged according to the first system, which was therefore used to identify series. Series that can be found in both systems were drawn together intellectually by the archivist and described as one series although their physical order has been maintained as received.
Series consists of records relating to the organization, policies and procedures of the University. It includes memoranda and reports.
Series consists of records relating to policy and planning in other departments and faculties that concerned the Department. It includes correspondence and memoranda.
Series consists of records relating to the operations, policies and procedures of the Department. It includes departmental reviews by outside referees; departmental reports, minutes and papers associated with departmental meetings; and memoranda on subjects of importance to the Department.
Series consists of records of university and departmental committees. The documents consist mainly of memoranda to and from the Chair of the Department.
Series consists of records relating to policies and procedures for safety and security in the Physics Department, with particular reference to laboratories. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to research activities of members of faculty. It includes correspondence, proposals, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to departmental policy and procedures on appointments. It includes memoranda, policy documents, discussion papers, job descriptions and submissions from the Chair of the Department.
Series consists of records relating to policy on faculty workloads, appointments and evaluation. It includes memoranda, discussion papers, course proposals and records relating to liaison activities.
Series consists of records relating to graduate program and course offerings in Physics at S.F.U. It includes course proposals and brochures.
Series consists of records relating to course offerings in the Physics undergraduate program. It includes course proposals and memoranda between the Dean of Science and departmental Chairs.
Series consists of records relating to the involvement of the Department in external associations and societies, including the Canadian Association of Physicists. The series includes correspondence, minutes of meetings, and registration materials from a symposium held at S.F.U.
Series consists of records relating to liaison with the government concerning physics instruction. It includes correspondence and associated discussion papers.
Series consists of records relating to dealings of the Department with publishing companies. It includes correspondence and reports.
Series consists of departmental and university publications to advertise Physics courses, programs, seminars, and conferences. It includes brochures, graduate studies handbooks, and the Physics Students Association newsletter, 1997-1978.
Series consists of records relating to the planning and management of advanced summer institutes by the Department of Physics. Participants included graduate students in physics, postdoctoral fellows and senior physicists of international stature. The series includes correspondence, agreements, proceedings, lists of participants, curricula vitae of lecturers and planning documentation.
Series consists of correspondence sent or received by the Chair of the Physics Department. Outgoing correspondence was arranged chronologically. The series includes memoranda and reports.
The records of the John Howard Society of the Lower Mainland of British Columbia consist of the Society's administrative records and client case files and cards used to document information about individual clients. They encompass work done as a provincial society and also as a working office in the Lower Mainland. The administrative records of the Society document all aspects of the Society's work. They are broken down into three separate series, reflecting the particular manner in which the Society operated. First, a separate series of miscellaneous records which the Society appears to have kept apart from its established file system dates from 1932 to 1988. A second series of administrative records dating from 1932 to about 1968 reflects the Society's file classification plan in use at the time (see Appendix B1 - hard-copy finding aid only). A third group of administrative records reflects a new file classification plan which replaced the earlier file system (see Appendix B2 - hard-copy finding aid only). Administrative records that have accrued to the fonds have been added to this series. Later records demonstrate the increased activity of the society in addressing the social problems of crime, including victim assistance programs and community assessments, as well as administration of halfway houses. Individual case files and cards provide evidence of the Society's involvement with clients on probation including repeat or 'habitual' offenders, as well as prison visits, counseling sessions and other related actions undertaken by the Society on behalf of its clients. Records comprising this fonds are records created at the Vancouver office of the Society, and do not include records created by the various regional offices.
Subseries consists of the official Minutes of the Annual Meetings of the Society from 1932 to 1982, official Minutes of the Board and Executive Committee meetings from 1956 to 1980 and some early reports of the Executive Secretary primarily from the 1930s.
Subseries consists of Annual Reports dating from 1932 to 1988, including promotional pamphlets summarizing the Annual Report for some of these years. President's Reports and some Monthly Reports for assorted years are also included in this subseries.
Subseries consists of miscellaneous materials pertaining to the Board of Directors and other officials of the Society, including Honourary officers, Ex-Officio members and Elected Directors. Some correspondence is included in these files pertaining to appointments and resignations. A Decision Book of the Executive Committee dating from 1968 to 1984 is also included in the subseries.
Subseries consists of files containing official Financial Statements prepared by an accounting firm on behalf of the Society.
Subseries consists of various files pertaining to the National office of the John Howard Society, including a Memorandum of Agreement dated 1961 between the John Howard of Canada and the John Howard Society of British Columbia and Minutes of the national Executive Directors' meetings for various years from 1971 to 1983.
Subseries consists of files containing miscellaneous reports, articles and newspaper clippings. Files cover a broad range of subject areas including the John Howard Players, the Victims of Crime Program and early correspondence of Society officials.
Series consists of the main administrative files of the Society from about 1932 to 1973. During this period, a central office filing system was in place where each file category was assigned a unique alpha-numeric code. The alphabetic code was used to represent the broad category or subject area while the numeric code represented a division of the main category. Researchers should be aware that the files are not arranged according to strict chronological and alphabetical order within or between subseries, and therefore the entire file list for the subseries below should be reviewed to determine the existence of all files on a particular subject.
Subseries consists of files relating to general administrative matters of the Society, including general reports, organizational information, policies and agreements. Files also include some committee files, such as the Constitution, Provincial Liaison and Women's and Family Committees. Files in this subseries include reports, memoranda, articles, newspaper clippings and pamphlets, and correspondence.
Subseries consists of files pertaining to corrections reform, including correspondence with and information about international organizations involved in the areas of prison reform and criminal rehabilitation, such as the Howard League for Penal Reform in Great Britain. Files also include information about various correctional institutions outside of B.C., and include articles, newspapers, clippings, bulletins, reports and correspondence.
Subseries consists of a single file on the Elizabeth Fry Society. File consists mainly of correspondence, but also includes miscellaneous materials, such as Annual Reports, lists of Society officers, newspaper clippings and statistical information about women received at Oakalla Prison.
Subseries consists of files on various financial matters, such as revenue, including briefs submitted by the Society to government agencies in support of requests for financial aid; banking, including lists of signing officers; and budgets, including correspondence with Community Chest and Council Budget Committee.
Subseries consists of files on various health-related subjects, such as disabled veterans, drug addiction and venereal disease. Files typically include newspaper clippings, pamphlets, brochures, briefs and statistical information on these health-related topics.
Subseries consists of files on various correctional institutions, including Haney Correctional Institution, The Oakalla Prison Farm and the B.C. Penitentiary (see Access Points for list). Files include reports, memoranda, notes, newspaper clippings and correspondence relating to the operation and management of the various penitentiaries in B.C.
Subseries consists of files on other offices of the John Howard Society: its National office, provincial counterparts and regional branches. National office files contain material relevant to its formation around 1961 and provincial and regional files relate to matters of common concern, including policy matters. Files also contain information about these organizations, including reports and other printed material.
Subseries consists of files pertaining to various legal matters, including family court, legal aid and transportation issues. Files include reports, brochures, pamphlets and correspondence.
Subseries consists of files related to the misconduct and treatment of offenders, including young offenders, sexual offenders and habitual offenders.
Subseries consists of a single file on unemployment insurance. The file contains miscellaneous materials pertaining to unemployment insurance coverage for inmates and proposed amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act.
Subseries consists of 2 health-related files: one is on the Alcoholism Foundation, containing general printed material on the Foundation, such as newsletters, newspaper clippings, reports and some correspondence; the other is on narcotics, consisting primarily of correspondence with government committees, doctors and associations.
Subseries consists of a single file on social work. The file contains miscellaneous articles, reports and correspondence with various institutions, such as the Department of Social Work at the University of British Columbia and the Vancouver Council on Social Agencies.
Subseries consists of 2 files: one is a general John Howard Society file containing general reports on the Society, memoranda and correspondence with those interested in the work of the Society; and the other contains information on prison libraries, especially the Society's work in advocating the role of prison libraries in the rehabilitation of offenders.
Subseries consists of a number of files on reports and statistics of services provided by the Society, such as the number of cases accepted and cases closed, areas of services and work distribution. A number of other files in this subseries contain material on related associations of the Society, including the B.C. Borstal Association, Canadian Penal Association and the Canadian Corrections Association (see Access Points for list).
Series consists of the administrative files of the Society from about 1969 to 1982. During this period, a new file classification plan was in place where each file category or subject area was assigned a unique numeric code. Researchers should be aware that the files are not arranged according to strict chronological and alphabetical order within or between subseries, and therefore the entire file list for the subseries below should be reviewed to determine the existence of all files on a particular subject.
Subseries consists of general administrative files, including committee information, conference materials, newsletters, board of directors minutes, scholarship fund records, correspondence, union-related records, and other general office files.
Subseries consists of two files labelled 'unarchived' regarding the Society's constitutional changes from the 1930s and problems from the 1960s.
Subseries consists of files on pertaining to various projects undertaken by the Society. These include the Delinquency Prevention Programme, What Breaking the Law Could Mean to You, conducted in high schools; the Seventh Step, a program of alcohol recovery based on Alcoholics Anonymous established specifically for inmates of correctional facilities, Alternative Measures, Family House, Hobden House, Prison sentence programs, Impaired drivers program, and the Citizen Participation Programme, aimed at getting the public interested and involved in correctional issues. The subseries also consists of proposals for other programs that may not have received funding.
Subseries consists of files relating to the work of the Society with various organizations closely involved in parole supervision, corrections and penitentiaries, especially at the federal level. There are also correspondence files for each prison in British Columbia, the Libby society, the Elizabeth Fry society, and the Coalition against the return of the death penalty.
Subseries consists of files on various topics, including alcoholism, community residential centres, psychiatry, electronic monitoring program, recidivism, sentencing, death penalty, and multiculturalism. The files contain reports, papers, pamphlets, newspaper clippings and some correspondence on these miscellaneous topics.
Subseries consists of files on other offices of the John Howard Society, its National office and regional branches, primarily the North Okanagan Branch and the Kamloops Branch.
Series consists of client case files. Each case file contains personal information about individual clients, as well as a detailed log of the Society's involvement with the client, such as conversations and settings of interviews, analysis, notes, significant facts and/or statements made during the interview. Correspondence with various organizations are also included in the file folder. The arrangement of the files is in a rough alphabetical order. In the case of some clients, file folders were not created. Instead, loose documents, usually comprising a 'Face Sheet' and attached sheets providing details of the Society's involvement with the client have been stapled together. These loose documents are clustered in groups and inter filed with foldered case files, arranged in their own rough alphabetical order. A separate grouping of client case files have been labeled "Miscellaneous" and are broken down in alphabetical order. These files have been kept separate from other client case files. In view of the rough alphabetical order of the client case files and the separate grouping of miscellaneous files, it will be necessary for researchers interested in a particular individual to review a number of different boxes in order to determine the existence of a particular file.
Series consists of client cards on individual clients of the Society, dating mainly from its early period. The client cards are 5 x 8 stock cards containing personal information about individual clients and include details about the Society's involvement with the client. typically included on the cards are sentence and release dates, prison identification numbers, racial origin, education and type of crime committed.
Series consists of records relating to recidivists, also known as 'habituals', also known as repeat offenders, those individuals who were convicted of a crime, released from prison, and then rearrested for a similar arrest. Series is arranged into two subseries: Case Files and Assistance Program
Series consists of case files relating to recidivists, also known as 'habituals', also known as repeat offenders, those individuals who were convicted of a crime, released from prison, and then rearrested for a similar arrest. Case files include notes made by case workers during regular meetings with recidivists in some cases over decades. Files are arranged alphabetically by individual name but for privacy reasons file titles are limited to acronyms for this series.
Series consists of records relating to a program funded by the federal government to assist those individuals who had been labelled 'habitual offenders' by the courts to end their relationship with the state once the habitual offender classification came to an end.
Series consists of victim information sheets, arranged alphabetically. Each form details the name of a victim, the date, the incident in question and follow-up or suggestions for compensation or action.
Series consists of records relating to visitations by JHS staff to the houses of people identified by an offender as a place, person or family of support once the offender is released on parole. Information includes names, birthdates, religious affiliation, race, gender, and general background information of the person or family being interviewed. Series is arranged chronologically.
Series consists of final reports made by JHS staff on individuals who are completing their parole periods. Information captured in the reports includes personal names, birth dates, general background and current living / working / social conditions of people at the end of their time on parole. Series is arranged chronologically.
Series consists of the quasi-personal records of then executive director Bert Massiah. Records include a file of personal correspondence, as well as records relating to liaising with the JHS BC Board of Directors and some other JHS-related correspondence.
Series consists of annual reports.
Series consists of articles written, by the JHSLM and others, on various aspects of the justice system in Canada.
Series consists of fact sheets published by the JHSLM on correctional facilities, crime and employment, and other matters related to prison advocacy.
Series consists of guides for the youth justice system, families and federal prison, and successful parole applications and release from prison.
Series consists of the newsletters of the JHSLM.
Series consists of the minutes of the Board of Directors for the JHSLM.
The fonds consists of records made or received by the Office of the Associate Vice-President, Academic in the course of its activities. Activities and topics documented include the AVPA's reporting relationship with the VP Academic (meetings and consultations); liaison with other senior university administrators, including the President and other Vice-Presidents; administrative supervision of and correspondence with units reporting to the AVPA; and the AVPA's participation in a number of Senate committees, including the Senate Policy Committee on Scholarships, Awards and Bursaries (SPCSAB), the Senate Undergraduate Admissions Board (SUAB), the Senate Committee on Undergraduate Studies (SCUS), the Senate Committee on Academic Planning (SCAP), and the Senate Committee on Enrolment Management and Planning (SCEMP). Records include correspondence, reports, and meeting agendas, minutes, and supporting papers. For more detailed descriptions of record types, see individual series and sub-series descriptions.
Series consists of records relating to the Associate Vice-President, Academic's interactions with senior university administrators (President and other Vice-Presidents) and the university departments and committees that reported to them. Records consists predominantly of correspondence, meeting agendas and minutes, reports, and policies. For more detailed description of record types, see individual sub-series descriptions.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with the Office of the President, records relating to the regular meetings of the Vice-Presidents and Deans, and records relating to the activities and deliberations of the President's Advisory Committee on Priorities and Budgeting (PACOPAB). Records include correspondence, reports, and meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with the Executive Director / Vice-President, Administration and with departments which belonged to the ED / VP Administration reporting portfolio. Activities and topics documented include interactions with the Executive Director / Vice-President, the Administrative and Professional Staff Association (APSA), Student Services, and the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS). Records consist predominantly of correspondence, with some reports.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with the Vice-President, Harbour Centre and with departments which belonged to the VP Harbour Centre reporting portfolio. Note that the title of this Vice-Presidential office changed over the period covered by this series: VP SFU at Harbour Centre (1987-1991), VP Harbour Centre and External Relations (1991-1994), and VP Harbour Centre and Continuing Studies (1994-1997). Activities and topics documented in the correspondence include planning for the downtown campus at Harbour Centre; operations of the Bridge to the Future fundraising campaign; correspondence with, related to, or copied from the University News Service (later renamed Media and Public Relations); and planning for the development of the University Village, a predecessor of the later Burnaby Mountain Community Project (UniverCity). Records consist predominantly of correspondence, with some reports and brochures.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with the Vice-President, Research / Information Systems (renamed VP Research in 1990), and with departments which belonged to the VP Research reporting portfolio. Activities and topics documented include development of the university's computing polices and administrative computing systems; the AVP Academic's interactions with the University Archives and the Centre for Systems Science; and the activities and deliberations of a number of university committees, including the Cognitive Science Program Steering Committee, the Computing Advisory Committee, the Administrative Information Systems Steering Committee, the Committee on Instructional Computing, and the Archives and Records Management Committee. Records include correspondence, reports, meeting agenda and minutes, presentations, and policies.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with the Vice-President, Financial Services (renamed VP Finance and Administration in 1994). Activities and topics documented include capital and operating budget planning, policy development, and use of contingency funds. Records include correspondence and policies.
Series consists of records relating to university finances and budget planning. Activities include allocation of departmental operating and capital budgets for units within the VP Academic's reporting portfolio; university funding requests under the provincial government's Funds for Excellence in Education (FEE) program; and budget reduction planning in 1995-1996. Records include correspondence and reports; capital equipment, renovation, and operating budget requests, proposals and authorizations; budget estimates and working papers; and university five-year capital plans.
Series consists of records relating to the Associate Vice-President, Academic's reporting relationship to the VP Academic (meetings, consultations, advice); regular meetings with other senior university administrators; supervision of and interactions with the academic-support departments that reported directly the AVP Academic; the AVP Academic's involvement in university space planning; consultations with the SFU Faculty Association (SFUFA) and the Teaching Support Staff Union (TSSU); and participation in various university committees. Records consists predominantly of correspondence, reports, and meeting agenda, minutes, support papers and notes. For a detailed description of record types, see individual sub-series descriptions.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the Associate Vice-President, Academic's meetings and interactions with the Vice-President, Academic; participation in regular meetings of senior university administrators, including Vice-Presidents, Deans, Chairs, and Directors; and the activities of the Task Force on University Size (1987-1989). Records include correspondence, meeting agendas and minutes, meeting notes, proposals, policies, and reports.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Office carrying out a number of the core responsibilities of the AVP Academic. Activities documented include high-school liaison, IT systems planning, and government liaison; space allocation planning, renovations, and the activities of the University Space Advisory Committee; consultations and negotiations with the Teaching Support Staff Union (TSSU) and the SFU Faculty Association (SFUFA); the AVP Academic's committee work, including chairing of the Committee to Review Personal Safety and Security at SFU (CRPSS) and participation in university computing committees; participation in the British Columbia Council on Admissions and Transfers (BCCAT); the management of legal disputes involving the university, harassment cases, and the development of the university's Harassment Policy; and development of the AVP Academic's file classification system. Records include correspondence, policies, and reports; meeting agenda, minutes, and supporting papers; space inventories, audits, proposals, allocations, agreements, leases, and architectural plans and drawings; legal advice and copies of legal decisions and other court documents; file indices; and notes, drafts, working papers, and printed reference material.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from the Academic Advice Centre. For the whole of its existence (1971-1992), the Centre belonged to the VP Academic's reporting portfolio, though its direct reporting relationship shifted several times between the VP and the AVP. Activities documented in the correspondence include staffing, budget, policy development, and the reorganization and dissolution of the Centre in 1992. Records include correspondence, reports and statistics, student attrition and retention studies, advisors' manuals, and meeting agenda, minutes, and notes.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from Analytical Studies. Analytical Studies moved to the VP Academic's reporting portfolio in 1985, although for all of the period covered by this series it reported directly to the VP Academic (rather than the AVP). Records include correspondence, reports, and statistics, including departmental profiles and enrollment statistics.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from Cooperative Education during the period in which it reported to the AVP Academic (1985-1996). After 1996, Cooperative Education reported to Student Services, though it later returned again to the VP Academic portfolio in 1999. Activities documented in the correspondence include departmental budget planning, staffing, program development, and the deliberations and activities of the SFU Coop Advisory Council. Records include correspondence, reports, budgets, program proposals, meeting minutes and supporting papers, and a coop student handbook (1993).
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from the Financial Aid and Awards Office during the period in which it reported to the AVP Academic (1984-1994). Note that until 1989, the Office was called simply the Financial Aid Office. From 1994 it reported to the Registrar, where it was eventually merged with other programs to form part of the Student Academic Resources Office. Activities documented in the correspondence include departmental budget planning, program and policy development, and the external review of the department in 1991. The sub-series also includes one file of correspondence with the Community Relations Office. This appears to have been a short-lived office, established around 1986 with the appointment of Vern Loewen (also Director of Financial Aid) as Community Relations Officer; it does not appear to have continued beyond 1987. Records in the sub-series include correspondence, meeting minutes, budgets, statistics and reports.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from the Registrar's Office during the period in which it reported to the AVP Academic (1985-1996). In 1996, the Registrar's Office was reorganized as part of Student Services. Activities documented in the correspondence include admissions, registration and teleregistration, enrollment management, and IT systems planning. Records include correspondence, reports, surveys, and meeting minutes.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from the Animal Care Facility during the period in which it reported to the AVP Academic (1990-1994). From 1994 on, the Animal Care Facility reported to the VP Research. Activities documented in the correspondence include management of the facilities, assessments by the Canadian Council on Animal Care, and development of policy, services and programs. Records include correspondence and reports.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from the University Archives during the period in which it reported to the AVP Academic (1990-1996). After 1996 the Archives reported to the Dean of Student Services (1996-2000), returned again briefly to the AVP Academic reporting portfolio in 2000-2001, then moved to the AVP Policy, Equity, Legal (2001- ). Activities documented in the correspondence include departmental budget planning and staffing, search for the University Archivist (1993-1994), policy development, and establishment of the SFU's access and privacy program in 1994 as part of the university's compliance with the provincial Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from Computing Services during the period in which it reported to the AVP Academic (1990-1994). In 1991 Computing Services was reorganized into Academic Computing Services (ACS) and Operations and Technical Support (OTS); from 1994 both of these units shifted their reporting relationship from the AVP to the VP Academic. Activities documented in the correspondence include departmental budget and organizational planning, IT systems, network and infrastructure planning, development of an information management system for the Eastern Indonesian Universities Development Project (EIUDP), and operations of the university's Microcomputer Store. Records includes correspondence, reports, discussion papers, and meeting minutes.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from the Instructional Media Centre (IMC) during the period in which it reported to the AVP Academic (1990-1994). After 1994, IMC shifted its reporting relationship from the AVP to the VP Academic (1994-2001). but returned in 2001 as part of the newly restructured Learning and Instructional Development Centre (LIDC). Activities documented in the correspondence include departmental budget and organizational planning, and development of services. Records consists predominantly of correspondence, with some reports.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from Reprographics during the period in which it reported to the AVP Academic (1991-1994). After 1994, Reprographics reported directly to the VP Academic (1994-2000), returned shortly to AVP Academic (2000-2002), then moved to Finance and Auxiliary Services (2002- ). Activities documented in the correspondence include general organizational and budget planning. Records consists predominantly of correspondence, with some reports.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from Student Services. Although Student Services did not move to the VP Academic's reporting portfolio until 1994, the AVP Academic maintained a correspondence with the Director and with the various units comprising Student Services, including Athletics and Recreation, Health Services, the Day Care Centre, and Residence and Housing. The AVP Academic's Office also filed here correspondence with or relating to the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS). Records consists predominantly of correspondence, with some reports.
Series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence with, related to, or copied from university academic faculties and departments, including the Faculties of the Arts, Education, Science, Applied Sciences, Business Administration, Continuing Studies, and Graduate Studies. Activities documented include budget planning, program and project proposals, fees, funding, and downtown campus planning. Records include correspondence, reports, meeting minutes, budgets, proposals, presentations, and brochures and other printed matter.
Series consists of records relating to the deliberations and activities of various Senate committees. With one exception – sub-series 4, the Senate Committee on Academic Discipline (SCAD) – the Associate Vice-President, Academic either chaired or participated on all of the committees represented by the sub-series. Records include meeting agendas, minutes, and supporting papers; and correspondence, reports, statistics, and notes and working papers.
This sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's working files as a committee member of SPCSAB. It also includes several files relating to SPCSAB's predecessor (SCSAB). Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports, statistics, and notes and working papers.
This sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's working files as a committee member of SUAB. Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports, policies, and briefs.
This sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's working files as Chair of SCUS. Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports, curriculum proposals, course descriptions, calendar revisions, and policies.
Sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's correspondence relating to the Senate Committee on Academic Discipline (SCAD) and its proposed revisions to university academic discipline policies. Records consists of correspondence, policies, revisions, and notes.
This sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's working files as a member of SCAP. Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports, curriculum proposals and authorizations, calendar changes, budget summaries, and external reviews and responses.
This sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's working files as Chair of SUAAC. Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports, award nominations and lists of recipients.
This sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's working files as a member of SCEMP. Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports and statistics.
This sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's working files as Chair of SCRAD. Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports, policies, drafts, notes, and working papers.
This sub-series consists of the Associate Vice-President, Academic's working files as a member of SCCS. Records include correspondence, reports, statistics, notes, and working papers.
The fonds consists of records made or received or inherited by Academic Planning Services in the course of its activities. Activities documented include the operations of the Academic Planning Committee (predecessor of the Senate Committee on Academic Planning), external reviews of university departments, new academic program proposals, and SFU's participation in TRIUMF (the particle accelerator facility located at the University of British Columbia and operated jointly by a number of Canadian universities). Records include meeting agendas, minutes and support papers, and external review reports and related documentation. For more detailed descriptions of record types, see individual series descriptions. Note that many of the records were created before the establishment of Academic Planning Services and were inherited by the unit: all of series 1 (Academic Planning Committee), many files in series 2 (External reviews), all of series 3 (TRIUMF correspondence), and some of series 4 (General correspondence). Note also that the only records post-dating Alison Watt's tenure as Director (1990-1996) are found in series 2 (External reviews).
This series consists of records relating to the activities and deliberations of the APC. The files were originally created by the Vice-President, Academic as a member of the committee. At some point in the early 1990s, the records were transferred to and integrated into the record-keeping system of Academic Planning Services. Activities and topics documented in the files include planning retreats at Harrison Hots Springs (May 31 - June 2 1972) and Westminster Abbey, Mission (December 11 - 13 1972); consideration of program proposals in the Fine Arts and in Communication; and the activities of an APC sub-committee relating to disputes in the Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology (PSA) department. Records include meeting agendas and minutes, correspondence, reports, and program proposals.
Senate policy requires that all academic departments undergo periodic external review. The Vice-President, Academic's Office has responsibility for coordinating this process, advising departments on timelines, assisting with the preliminary self-study, identifying potential external reviewers, and receiving and disseminating documentation. After 1990, these responsibilities were delegated to Academic Planning Services. Files relating to earlier reviews were transferred and integrated into the record-keeping system of Academic Planning Services. This series consists of records relating to the external review process. All the departments reviewed are academic units, with three exceptions: the Registrar (sub-series 7), the University Library (sub-series 14), and the Financial Aid and Awards Office (sub-series 18). Records include review check lists, correspondence, site visit schedules, departmental self-study reports, CVs, budgets, surveys, departmental handbooks and other printed matter, meeting minutes, external review reports, and departmental responses to the external review.
This series consists of files created by SFU faculty and administrators who served as SFU representatives on the TRIUMF Board of Management in the first half of the 1980s. The material (some of it originally housed in binders) appears to have been transferred at some point in the early 1990s to Academic Planning Services and consolidated into a single block. Activities and topics documented in the files include planning for the construction of a KAON factory, contribution funding, negotiation of a borrowing agreement, IT planning, patent policy, employee relations, the review of TRIUMF by the NRC (1983), the internal review of the Operations Committee (1984-1985), and TRIUMF's 10th anniversary celebrations in 1985. Records include correspondence, reports, meeting summaries, agreements, legal advice, notes and working papers, and TRIUMF newsletters and other printed matter.
Series consists of general correspondence files created or inherited by Academic Planning Services. Activities and topics documented include proposals for a PhD program in Engineering Science and an MA program in aquaculture, and a proposal considered in 1991-1992 to establish an SFU branch campus in Oita prefecture in Japan. Records include correspondence, proposals, curriculum descriptions, budgets, and brochures and other printed matter.
The fonds consists of records made or received or inherited by the Academic Relations Office in the course of its activities. Activities documented include negotiations and consultations with the SFU Faculty Association (SFUFA) relating to the collective framework agreement; development of faculty salary policy and allocation of faculty salary budgets; the activities of the Salary Equity Study Committee; administrative and record-keeping support for salary review, renewal, tenure, and promotion processes at the university. The fonds also includes a series of files inherited by the Office that were originally created by the Assistant to the VP Academic in her capacity as a university representative on the Executive Board of the SFU Childcare Society (ca. 1984-1987). Records consist predominantly of correspondence, meeting minutes and agenda, reports, and notes and working papers.
Series consists of correspondence relating to academic personnel relations and support services. Activities and topics documented include recruitment and retirement, negotiations with the Teaching Support Staff Union (TSSU) in 1979, the provincial Compensation Stabilization Program, (1982-1984), development of the personnel payroll IT systems and the activities of the Administrative Information Systems Steering Committee (1987-1988), the employment systems review in the Office of the Vice-President, Academic (1989), and the distribution agreement with the Open Learning Agency (1989-1990). Records include correspondence, policies and procedures, reports and statistics, meeting minutes, agreements, legal advice, and notes and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the regular consultations between the university administration and the Simon Fraser University Faculty Associations (SFUFA) relating to the university policies and other matters affecting the terms and conditions of academic employment at SFU. Records include meeting agendas, minutes, correspondence, policies, notes, and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to negotiations between the university and the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association (SFUFA) on matters relating to the collective framework agreement establishing the terms and conditions of academic employment at SFU. Records include correspondence, notes, policies, arbitration briefs, reports and statistics, negotiating proposals, agreements, meeting minutes, notes, and working papers.
Series consists of the Assistant's / Director's correspondence with, related to, or copied from university faculties on matters relating to academic appointments, renewal, tenure, promotion, and sabbatical. Records consists of correspondence. For the list of faculties included in the correspondence, see "Access points" below.
Series consists of records relating to the allocation of salary budgets to university faculties. Records include correspondence, budget requests, authorizations, budgets, notes and calculations.
This series consists of the working files of the Director of Academic Relations who chaired the Salary Equity Study Committee. Records include meeting agendas, minutes, reports (including the Committee's final report), correspondence, statistics, notes, and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the operation of the university's salary, renewal, tenure and promotion review processes. Activities and topics documented include development of faculty salary scales and polices, and the activities of the Faculty Salary Policy Committee (1987); the university's professional librarians' policies; renewal, tenure and promotion recommendations and the activities of the University Tenure Committee (UTC); salary reviews and appeals, and the activities of the University Salary Review Committee (1978-1983). Records include correspondence; recommendations; statistical data, including comparisons to other universities; policies, procedures and drafts; notes and working papers.
This series consists of files were created by the Assistant to the Vice-President, Academic (Alison Watt) in her capacity as a university representative on the Society's Executive Board between 1984-1987. Activities and topics documented include meetings of the Board, operations of the Society, and employees relations. Records include the report of the Task Force on Financial Support to the Day Care Centre (1982), correspondence, reports, meeting agendas and minutes, budget papers, job descriptions, Board membership lists, and SFU Childcare Society handbooks, brochures, newsletters, and other printed matter.
The fonds consists of records made or received by the Institute's Director in the course of planning the establishment of the Institute. Activities documented include development of the Institute's mandate, policies, and administrative structure; public programs planning; recruitment of staff, fellows, and conference participants; liaison with other SFU departments, faculty and staff associations, government, and other institutions; budget planning; facilities and space planning; and publicity and media relations. Document types include correspondence and reports; the proposal to establish the Institute, its charter and code of ethics, policies, and information brochure; conference proposals and invitations to potential participants; job applications, resumes, notes, and agreements; brochures, newsletters and other printed material from external associations and institutions offering comparable programs; costing estimates, budgets, funding strategy, correspondence and proposals to funding agencies; space planning reports and architectural drawings of the planned facilities for the Institute; and publicity material and press clippings relating to the Institute.
The fonds consists of records made or received by the Director in the course of planning for the establishment and operations of the School. Activities documented include curriculum planning and development; management of the program-approval process; research and site visits to other universities with comparable programs; liaison with other SFU departments, other educational institutions, government and the Kelowna community; recruitment and appointment of School faculty and the hiring of the Director; dissemination of program information to students and media relations; budget and facilities planning; and the activities of SFU's Interior Programming Committee. Record types include correspondence and reports; course proposals, curriculum outlines, drafts and commentaries; brochures, leaflets, program descriptions, reports and studies from other universities; a labour-market survey and related documentation (contract, correspondence, reports); planning committee meeting minutes and supporting papers; position advertisements, lists of faculty candidates, applications, CVs, search committee minutes and working papers; program brochures; budget proposals, projected budgets and notes; space planning reports, studies, and architectural drawings; and press releases, news clippings, and other publicity material.
The fonds consists of records relating to the development and administration of non-academic services for students, staff and faculty at Simon Fraser University. Activities, topics and events documented include the Vice-President's correspondence with university services departments, Student Society, the university community, and provincial and national organizations; participation on university committees; development of projects, programs, and workshops; and publications. Also included are records of the Assistant to Vice-President, University Services. The types of documents include meeting agendas, minutes, and supporting papers; correspondence and reports; annual reports; statistical studies; budgets and financial working papers; contracts; and publications including student handbooks, brochures, posters, newsletters, and newspaper clippings.
Series consists of records relating to the administration of University Services and includes reports on the history, goals and objectives of university services offices; development of staff positions and job descriptions; a proposal for a satellite university of SFU and the feasibility study for a multi-purpose facility at SFU; speeches given by the Vice-President; budget and funding proposals; and the correspondence and minutes of University Services staff meetings, the University Relations Committee, and the Universities Council of British Columbia. Also included is Stan Roberts' personal correspondence. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, resumes, reports, questionnaires, press releases and financial statements.
Series consists of records relating to the Vice-President's correspondence with members of the university community including the President, Resources Office, Board of Governors, Alumni Association, University Services Office, Resources Office, Residences, Cooperative Education, the Centre for Communications and the Arts, and the Bursar's Office regarding program administration, budgeting, and student concerns. Also included are reports by Lolita Wilson on students in academic difficulty and statistics on course drops, and a planning report for SFU by Arthur Erickson Architects. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports, questionnaires, and financial statements.
Series consists of records relating to the Vice-President's liaison with various departments and projects on campus. For a list of the departments, see Access Points below. Records also consist of adjudication of student bursaries and fees; programming for the "SFU Today" television show; community liaison activities; surveys on non-registering students and student attrition; the student garden plot project; orientation planning; renovation proposals for the rotunda; and a proposed campus poison control centre. Records include correspondence and working papers, financial statements, reports, surveys and publications.
Series consists of records relating to the operation and daily administration of University Services Departments on campus and includes Vice-President's correspondence with university services departments, members of the university community, and external organizations; planning documents; staff memoranda; annual reports; and project proposals. Records include correspondence, working papers and reports, agendas and minutes, budgets and financial statements, annual reports, statistics, surveys, contracts, newspaper clippings and publications.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the daily administration of Counselling Services and the Vice-President's correspondence with Counselling personnel and the university community; development of counselling programs, service policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of student information; and budget and space planning. Records include correspondence and working papers, annual reports, financial statements, statistics, and publications.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the daily administration of Health Services and the Vice-President's correspondence with Health Services personnel, the university community, and the British Columbia Medical Services Commission; policy development and budget planning, space shortages and proposals for expansion of the department, the report "University Health Needs" and reports on the history of Health Services, implementation of student medical insurance, and papers of the Health Advisory Committee. Records include correspondence, working papers and reports, agendas and minutes, annual reports, statistics, and financial statements.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the daily administration of the Reading and Study Centre and includes Vice-President's correspondence with Centre personnel; job descriptions and resumes; proposed budget and fees; syllabus development and literacy tests; and program status reports produced each semester. Records include correspondence, working papers and reports, statistics, annual reports, financial statements, and publications.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the daily administration of housing and residences on campus and the Vice-President's correspondence with Housing and Residence staff, the Board of Governors, and members of the university community regarding children's play areas, food services, family residences, conference accommodations, and living conditions; development of rent collection policies and residence rules; new housing proposals; student rental inquiries; and budget and operating statements. Also included are records of the Residence Planning and Policy Committee and the Residences Tenants' Association and student housing questionnaires. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports, financial statements, surveys, statistics, contracts, and publications.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the daily administration of the International Office on campus and the Vice-President's correspondence with staff regarding personnel issues and the development of goals, objectives, and policies; budget and grant proposals; planning activities for foreign students; correspondence with the Canadian Bureau for International Education (CBIE) and World University Service of Canada (WUSC), and minutes of Canadian University Students Overseas (CUSO) meetings; foreign student statistics; and International Office brochures. Also included are reports on the role of the International Office at SFU, the Study Abroad Program for SFU students, and "International Education at SFU" by the International Office Task Force. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports, financial statements, statistics, and publications.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the daily administration of the Centre for Communications and the Arts and the Vice-President's correspondence with staff and the university community regarding music, films and theatre projects and exhibitions; minutes of Arts Centre staff meetings; budget development and grant applications; non-credit workshop planning and facility management. Also included are correspondence with the Advisory Committee on the Arts; a report on campus communications; and planning and promotional materials for the premier of the movie "Groundstar Conspiracy" that was filmed at SFU. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports, financial statements, contracts, newspaper clippings, and publications.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the daily administration of the Daycare Centre and the Vice-President's correspondence with staff and the university community regarding personnel issues, policies and procedures, construction of the Daycare Centre, and operation of Nanitsh, Kahpoo, and Pink daycare centres; budgets, funding proposals and cashbooks; daycare incorporation documents; minutes of the Burnaby Mountain Day Care Society; and reports on the history of daycare on campus. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports, financial statements, and publications.
Series consists of records relating to Ian Kelsey and William (Bill) Stewart as the Assistant to Vice-President, University Services and their liaison with university services staff, departments, and committees on campus. For a list of the departments and committees, see Access Points below. Records also consist of evaluation forms used by Counsellors; a financial aid study; budget development; reports on and planning for highschool and college recruiting visits; correspondence regarding handicapped students, rotunda renovations, student employment, orientation and workshops; and policy development. Records include correspondence and working papers, financial statements, agendas and minutes, reports, surveys and publications.
Collection consists of records relating to the personal history and genealogy of the university's namesake, the explorer, Simon Fraser. Records include; correspondence, working papers, reports, newsletters, newspaper clippings, photographs and negatives, drawings, artifacts and textiles.
Series consists of records relating to Simon Fraser and includes general biographical information, university correspondence with members of the Fraser family and Lord Lovat, archival responses to research inquiries, a scrapbook of Fraser family news clippings created by Donald Fraser, Barbara Rogers genealogical research, Vancouver Sun newspaper articles written by Stephen Hume, and Simon Fraser historic site and family property reference material collected by J. Dennis Casey and Howard Wright. Records include correspondence, working papers and research notes, a scrapbook, newspaper clippings, publications, and copies of maps and photographs.
File contains copies of materials related to Simon Fraser and his family's property in Hoosick Falls, NY, and other historic sites connected to Fraser in Cornwall and Williamstown, ON.
The letters were donated to the university on opening day, September 9, 1965, by Donald Fraser, a great-grandson of Simon Fraser. However, the documents were misplaced and were found in 1988 in the desk belonging to a history professor. At this time, the University Archivist arranged to have a handwriting expert to analyze the documents and determine their authorship. Series consists of original letters written by Simon Fraser and supporting documentation. Series includes correspondence with Don Brown who was hired in 1988 to authenticate the letters, copies of other documents written by Simon Fraser from the National Archives of Canada that were used during the authentication process, and publicity regarding the identification of the letters. Records include correspondence, working papers, reports, and newspaper clippings.
Series consists of Fraser family photographs. Formats include original albumen photographs (i.e. photo cards), photographic prints and negatives. Photo subjects include family members, Simon Fraser's house, gravestone, and stained glass windows depicting the explorer.
On Sunday, October 15, 1972, a historical plaque commemorating Simon Fraser, the famous explorer, was unveiled at the site of the Old Fraser Mills, St. Andrews West. This plaque is one of a series being erected throughout the province by the Historical and Museums Branch, Archives of Ontario, acting on the advice of the Archaeological and Historic Sites Board of Ontario. Shown left to right after the ceremony are: Mr. Lyall Manson, President, Stormont, Dundas and Glangarry Historical Society; Mr. D. J. McDonald, Reeve, Township of Cornwall; Mr. Robert F. Gray, Vice President, Stormont, Dundas and Glengarry Historical Society; Dr. Simon B. Fraser, who unveiled the plaque; The Reverend John R. Donihee, Parish Priest, St. Andrews West; The Hon. Fern Guindon, Ontario's Minister of Labour; The Hon. Lucien Lamoureux, Speaker of the House of Commons; Professor Keith Johnson, who represented the Province's Historic Sites Board.
Prints created by SFU's Instructional Media Centre (IMC) in July 1990.
Series consists of correspondence regarding Fraser family artifacts and includes portrait drawings, a claymore and ceremonial powder horn, a serving platter, bronze profile plaque of Simon Fraser and Fraser Clan hunting and dress tartans.
Fonds consists of records relating to Lester's time as a member of the Board of Governers and then the Chairman of the Board. The records are arranged in 3 series: Academic Freedom and Tenure, Correspondence, and Subject files. The subject files include records relating to the CAUT censure, the Department of Political Science, Sociology, and Anthropology (PSA) dispute, and university reorganization as a result of the censure and dispute.
Series consists of records relating to the creation and revision of the university's Academic Freedom and Tenure statements and policies. Includes reports, examples from other universities, correspondence, and notes to file.
Series consists of correspondence generated while Richard Lester was both a member of the Board of Governors and also Chairman of the Board.
Series consists of subject files relating to Lester's involvement in the architecture and construction of the campus, censure from CAUT, reorganization, resolutions, and a recollection of his time at SFU.
The fonds of the Department of Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the Department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curricula and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, an external review, faculty files, memoranda, minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to departmental policies and procedures, including constitutions.
Series consists of correspondence and related materials received and sent by the Department Chair. It includes brochures, memoranda, questionnaires, and annual and other reports.
Series consists of files related to the appointment of faculty members. It includes correspondence, curricula vitae, memoranda and reports.
Series consists of the records of various departmental committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, minutes of meetings, and memoranda.
Series consists of the records relating to the Faculty Committee on University Development and a Senate paper on the splitting of the Department. It includes correspondence and memoranda.
Series consists of materials relating to the External Review committee charged with evaluating the external review of the Department in 1969. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of undergraduate course outlines and booklets.
Series consists of records relating to the Archaeological Sites Advisory Board. It includes draft budgets, correspondence, map copies, and memoranda.
Collection consists of SFU campus posters promoting the university or advertising social and academic events on campus, and departmental programs. Also included are departmental strike posters related to the 1969 strike in the Department of Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology, and a "Shift Shell" bumper sticker related to the 1966 protest about the Shell Gas Station on campus.
Collection consists of newspaper clippings and periodicals about Simon Fraser University.
Series consists of photocopies of newspaper articles relating to Simon Fraser University.
Series consists of magazines that contain articles relating to Simon Fraser University.
Fonds consists of records arising from Klaus Rieckhoff's teaching and research activities as well as records made and received by Rieckhoff as an elected member of the SFU Senate, Board of Governors, and various faculty, departmental, and university committees. Records include correspondence, memos, notes, publications, reports, lists, minutes, and evaluations.
Series consists of records relating to the President's Committee of Inquiry into the Department of Communication Studies, a committee appointment by President Pauline Jewett to investigate ongoing conflicts within the department since its emergence as its own discipline at SFU. Originally, communication studies was a discipline within the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, which took in three programs from Education: Kinesiology, Communications, and Fine and Performing Arts. Series includes correspondence, memos, notes, pamphlets, class lists, reports, course descriptions, and evaluations made and received by Klaus Rieckhoff while he was a member of the Committee of Inquiry.
Series consists of personal and professional correspondence between Klaus Rieckhoff and various friends, colleagues, and peers. Records consist primarily of correspondence but also include copies of memos and handwritten drafts of correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to issues discussed in Senate and Board of Governors committee meetings. Includes correspondence made and received by Rieckhoff, memos, notes, minutes, and reports. For a list of committees of which Rieckhoff was a member, see access points.
Series consists primarily of articles authored and co-authored by Klaus Rieckhoff that focused on chemical physics and that were published in scientific journals and as reports. See access points for a list of journal titles.
The fonds consists of records related to Webster's work as a scientist and administrator at SFU as well as records related to his involvement in a number of external organizations at the local, provincial, and national levels. The fonds includes correspondence with colleagues and students from around the world, reports, memos and communications with SFU colleagues, and committees, reprints of research articles which he authored, correspondence with contributors to Economic Nematology (the book he edited), and records related to external organizations such as the Arts, Science and Technology Centre of BC, the Science Council of Canada, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), and Tynehead Zoological Society of BC. The fonds is arranged in 8 series: Senior Administration, Correspondence & Committees, Arts Science and Technology Centre of BC, Science Council of Canada, Tynehead Zoological Society of BC, NSERC, Reprints of Research, Economic Nematology correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to Webster's work as Pro-Tem Dean of Graduate Studies as well as records related to various committees Webster served on at SFU, such as the Resource Allocation Committee, Academic Planning, Salary Committee, Western Vice Presidents meetings, and University Tenure Committee.
Series consists of correspondence with colleagues, graduate students, government officials, as well as interdepartmental correspondence. This series primarily consists of correspondence with colleagues regarding research, specimens, equipment, publications and also solicitations from graduate students to study with Webster at SFU. The series is arranged in chronological order.
Series consists of records relating to Webster's involvement on the Board of Governors of the Arts, Science and Technology Centre of British Columbia. Series includes correspondence, minutes, agendae, and president's records. Webster was president of the Society from 1980-1981.
Series consists of records relating to Webster's involvement on the Science Council of Canada, including records relating to forestry, microtechnolgoy, artificial intelligence and biotechnology. Series includes correspondence, meeting notes, agendae, minutes, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to Webster's participation as chair of the Life Sciences Committee, as well as a member of the Grants and Scholarships Committee, and Joint Selection Committee with SSHRC. Records consists of correspondence, minutes, agenda, reports, meeting notes.
Series consists of records related to Webster's involvement on the Board of the Tynehead Zoological Society. Records include minutes, correspondence, meeting notes, and a manual.
Series consist of copies of reprints of research articles authored or co-authored by Webster.
Series consists of records relating to editing Economic Nematology. Series is arranged in alphabetical order by name of contributor and includes correspondence, some drafts, and photographs.
Fonds consists of research material gathered by Johnston for his book Radical Campus: Making Simon Fraser University. Subjects, events and activities documented include the socio-political context of post-secondary education in the 1960s; the establishment of SFU; and the rise of student activism. The fonds consists primarily of photocopied material from fonds and newspapers; interview transcriptions and audiocassettes; and notes and drafts.
Series consists of research material gathered by Hugh Johnston for his book Radical Campus: Making Simon Fraser University. Radical Campus was published to coincide with the university's 40th anniversary in 2005. Subjects, events and activities documented include the socio-political context of post-secondary education in the 1960s; the establishment of SFU; the rise of student activism; the growth of academic departments and faculties; the role of prominent members of the SFU community; and the governance and administration of SFU. Series includes photocopied newspaper articles; photocopied fonds material such as correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, press releases, briefs, bulletins, book excerpts, drafts, curriculum vitae, interview transcriptions; working papers; audiocassette recordings; chapter drafts; and indices.
Sub-series consists primarily of photocopied background material, which Hugh Johnston used as sources for chapters one, two and three in Radical Campus. Subjects, events and activities documented include the socio-political context of post-secondary education in the 1960s; the establishment of SFU; prominent members of the SFU community; student activism; and university disputes. Sub-series includes correspondence, memoranda, minutes, newspaper articles, reports, press releases, journal and magazine articles, working papers, bulletins, drafts, book excerpts, and discussion papers.
Sub-sub-series consists primarily of photocopied material from the Sun, the Province, the Peak, the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) Bulletin, and other publications relating to the development of SFU. Subjects, events and activities documented include post-secondary education in the 1960s; student activism; the development and administration of SFU; post-secondary educational systems; faculty-administration relations; the Board of Governors; the CAUT Censure; the PSA affair; the Shell service station dispute; and the presidencies of Patrick McTaggart-Cowan and Kenneth Strand. Records include journal and magazine articles; newspaper clippings; reports and book excerpts.
Sub-sub-series consists primarily of photocopied material from the Sun, the Province, the Peak, the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) Bulletin, and other publications relating to the development of SFU. Subjects, events and activities documented include post-secondary education in the 1960s; student activism; Chancellor Gordon Shrum; the development and administration of SFU; post-secondary educational systems; faculty-administration relations; the Board of Governors; the CAUT Censure; the PSA affair; the Shell service station dispute; and the presidency of Kenneth Strand. Records include journal and magazine articles; newspaper clippings; reports and book excerpts.
Sub-sub-series consists primarily of photocopied material on prominent members of the SFU community including administrators, faculty and students (for list, see "Access points"). Subjects, events and activities documented include academic freedom; academic planning; the PSA affair; faculty associations; recruitment of department heads; faculty appointments and the Teaching Assistants affair. Sub-sub-series contains a diary of the daily activities of George Suart, appointed as SFU’s first Vice-President for Administration in 1968. Sub-sub-series also contains memoranda; reports; bulletins; cartoons; correspondence; printed emails; interview transcriptions; magazine and newspaper articles; working papers; and curriculum vitae.
File consists of a photocopy of an excerpt from Sandra Djwa's book, "Professing English: A Life of Roy Daniells."
Sub-sub-series consists primarily of photocopied material relating to the history of Simon Fraser University. Subjects, events and activities documented include academic planning; academic freedom, tenure and promotion; student activism; student and faculty affairs; faculty-administration relations; the crisis in post-secondary education; the PSA affair; the development of several academic departments; the development of the Teaching Support Staff Union (TSSU); the trimester system; and the overall growth and expansion of the university and its programs. Sub-sub-series includes memoranda; newspaper articles; minutes; discussion papers; printed emails; correspondence; journal articles; book excerpts; reports; annual reports; statistics; working papers; and an honors essay.
File consists of handwritten notes summarizing the contents of documents in held in SFU Archives in the Academic Planning Office fonds (F-49).
File consists of handwritten notes summarizes the contents of documents from selected files held in SFU Archives in various fonds, including the President's Office (F-193), the Gordon Shrum fonds (F-32), Chancellor's Office (F-3), the Board of Governors (F-33), the McTaggart-Cowan fonds (F-65).
Sub-series consists of photocopied source material for chapters four, five, and six of Radical Campus. Subjects, events and activities documented include student conduct; student affairs; student activism; student associations; faculty associations; SFU governance; academic departments; prominent members of the SFU community; university disputes; and the Women's Movement. Sub-series includes memoranda; issues of the Peak; correspondence; minutes; newsletters; newspaper and journal articles; reports; research notes; briefs; and an index for the material compiled by Hugh Johnston.
Sub-sub-series consists of several hundred full-page photocopies from The Peak relating to the governance of Simon Fraser University; student affairs; student activism; and academic freedom and tenure. These issues of the Peak are in chronological order. Hugh Johnston referred to these by creating a rough index of articles identified by the page and date of the Peak issues. This index is provided in pages 65-77 of the Yellow Notebook in sub-sub-series three. Subjects, events and activities documented include anti-war rallies and draft dodgers; athletics; football; tuition, student loans and bursaries; the BC Union of Students; Canadian Union of Students (CUS); the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) and the Association of University and Colleges of Canada (AUCC); the Faculty Association; Food Services; residences; registration; Graduate Student Society; the PSA affair; Students for a Democratic Society (SDS); Students for a Democratic University (SDU); the Shell service station dispute; the student movement; the Simon Fraser Student Society; and the Women's Movement.
Sub-sub-series consists of photocopied material from fonds held in the SFU Archives relating to The Peak; the Simon Fraser Student Society; Athletics and the TSSU. Hugh Johnston numbered each page of this material and created a rough index. This index is provided in pages 79-96 of the Yellow Notebook contained within sub-sub-series three. Subjects, activities and events documented include student conduct; the Student Affairs Committee; student activism; SFU Athletic programs; student clubs; health services; campus radio station; enrollment; faculty and student housing; the PSA affair; the Shell gas station affair; SFSS Presidents Stan Wong, Martin Loney, Rob Walsh, and Ian Spencer; the "Dentists' Wives"; the formation of TSSU; sabbatical eligibility; the presidencies of Kenneth Strand and Patrick McTaggart-Cowan; and the Women's Movement at SFU. Records include briefs, convocation programs, correspondence, journal articles, memoranda, minutes, newsletters, newspaper articles, press releases, reports, statistics, the University Act statutes, and Peak Student Handbooks (1985, 1989).
Sub-sub-series consists of one yellow notebook with working notes taken by Hugh Johnston during the preparation of Radical Campus. The notebook includes numbered random notes. Pages are numbered 1-232. Interview subjects include Stan Wong, Colin Yerbury, John Buchanan, Percilla Groves, Arvid Grants, John Edmonds, John Conway, Lolita Wilson, Don Devoretz, Roger Blackman, Jerry Zaslove, John Munro, Len Berggren, John Tietz, Theodor D. Sterling, and Evan W. Alderson. Records include numbered random notes (p. 5-51); a rough indexing of The Peak articles (p.65-77); a rough indexing of the photocopies from fonds (p. 79-96); rough notes from interviews (p. 97-128); notes from F-79 SFU Faculty Association fonds and F-27 Office of the President fonds (p. 155-179); interview notes (p. 180-217); and odd notes interspersed throughout the notebook.
Sub-sub-series consists of one red notebook with working notes on archival sources taken by Hugh Johnston during the preparation of Radical Campus. Pages are numbered 1 to 411. Academic departments documented include Physics, Languages, Mathematics, Computing Science, Psychology, Fine and Performing Arts, Chemistry, English, Communications, Library, Kinesiology, History, Philosophy, Economics, PSA, Biology, Criminology, Geography, Archaeology, and Education.
Sub-series consists primarily of photocopied source material about academic departments, and the Women's Movement. It also consists of source material for the Epilogue of Radical Campus. Subjects, activities and events documented include academic freedom and tenure; faculty appointments; prominent members of the SFU community; student activism; faculty and student associations; the development and expansion of SFU; and the Women's Movement. Sub-series includes briefs, reports, correspondence, discussion papers, memoranda, minutes, working papers, and newspaper and journal articles.
Sub-sub-series consists of photocopied material relating to the development and administration of academic departments; and the appointment, promotion, and tenure of faculty. Hugh Johnston numbered most of the pages and created an index to this material. Subjects, activities, and events documented include the Academic Freedom and Tenure Committee; the Appointment Committee; the Joint Committee on Salaries, Promotions and Tenure; the SFU Faculty Association; faculty appointments; the CAUT Censure; sabbatical leave; PSA dismissals; foreign scholars; departmental reviews; the University Development Committee; the development of academic research centres and institutes; faculty members; culturally significant individuals, groups and movements of the 1960s; student activism and Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). Sub-sub-series includes appointment notices; selected chapters of an unpublished anthology of essays; correspondence; draft policy statements; printed emails; faculty handbooks; interview transcriptions; discussion papers; list serve postings; memoranda; minutes; printed material from online newsletters, newspapers, magazines, and encyclopedias; newspaper and journal articles; reports; and working papers.
Sub-sub-series consists of photocopied material relating to the Women's Movement, SFU's early feminists, and the development of the Women's Studies Department. This material contains two numerical sequences of pages: from 1-166 and from 789-824 (with gaps). Subjects, activities and events documented include the Committee on the Status of Women for the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada; the Status of Women Council; the American Sociological Association; the Working Women’s Association; the Vancouver Women's Caucus; Edmonton's Women's Liberation Movement; President Pauline Jewett; Margaret Benston; Andrea Lebowitz; Frances Wasserlein; the Women's Studies Curriculum Committee; and the Women's Studies Program. Records include briefs, minutes, correspondence, discussion papers, magazine articles, newsletters, proposals, and reports.
Sub-sub-series consists of photocopied material relating to the overall growth and transformation of the university in its first forty years. Subjects, activities and events documented include Burnaby Mountain Community Development; the CAUT Censure; Continuing Studies; external grants; governing bodies; Harbour Centre; the dismissal hearings for Nathan Popkin; the SFU Pipe Band; research grants; the Segal Graduate School of Business; SFU Surrey; Tech BC; support staff; and space allocation. Sub-sub-series includes annual reports; briefs; budgets; reports; correspondence; discussion papers; an index of material for chapters 4, 5 and 9 of Radical Campus; newspaper articles; statistics; and working papers.
Sub-series consists primarily of photocopied material related to the trusteeship over the PSA department, the PSA Strike, and the subsequent dismissal of eight faculty members of the PSA department. Subjects, events and activities documented include the PSA Tenure Committee; the SFU Faculty Association; the Academic Freedom and Tenure Committee and statements; the CAUT Committee of Inquiry and motion of censure; the American Anthropological Association (AAA) ad hoc committee to investigate the SFU dispute; the Canadian Sociology and Anthropology Association (CSAA)'s boycott of SFU; the American Sociological Association ad hoc committee on the SFU dispute; the Canadian Political Science Association (CPSA)'s position; the Association of University and Colleges of Canada (AUCC)'s Committee on Academic Freedom; the Palmer Committee decision; the Rosenbluth Committee Report; the Supreme Court of BC in Wheeldon vs. SFU; and the university administration's actions under Presidents Kenneth Strand and Pauline Jewett. Sub-series consists of reports, issues of the Peak, minutes, memoranda, abstracts, press releases, correspondence, research notes, telegrams, newsletters, newspaper articles, strike bulletins, CAUT bulletins, book excerpts, journal articles, and printed online material.
Sub-series consists primarily of material related to Steve Hicks' work as Robin Fisher's research assistant. Subjects, events and activities documented student life and the political impetus for the establishment of SFU. Sub-series consists of research notes, interview questions, and drafts of chapters for an unpublished book.
Sub-series consists of original and photocopied material related to the Senate Committee on Rules and Procedures Pertaining to Professional Conduct. Subjects, events and activities documented include professional conduct at other universities; the Faculty Association Committee on the University Act; legal matters related to professional conduct; university governance; and the Planning Committee on Interior Programming's 1977 report. Sub-series consists of memoranda, correspondence, reports, minutes, newspaper clippings, book excerpts, and drafts of procedures on professional conduct.
Sub-series consists primarily of interviews with prominent members of the SFU community, including faculty, administrators, and students. Hugh Johnston conducted interviews; however he also collected audiocassette recordings and transcripts of interviews conducted by other researchers. They include Liisa Fagerlund, Ken Nielsen, Elika Kohler, Robin Fisher and Ruth Sandwell. Johnston's research assistants, John-Henry Harter and Dionysios (Dino) Rossi, also conducted interviews. Subjects, events and activities documented include student activism, the governance and administration of SFU, the 1968 CAUT motion of censure, the PSA affair and the history of SFU. Sub-series consists of audiocassette recordings and transcriptions of the interviews.
Sub-sub-series consists of transcriptions of interviews. For a list of interviewees, see file list.
Sub-sub-series consists of audiocasette recordings of interviews.
Sub-series contains drafts of all the chapters of Radical Campus. Johnston's publishers, Douglas and McIntyre, reviewed the manuscript draft of Radical Campus and asked Johnston to condense the book. This sub-series includes lengthier versions of the chapters.
The fonds consists of records relating to the administration of the Office of the Dean of Graduate Studies. Activities, topics and events documented include the Dean's correspondence with graduate program chairs and academic departments, the greater university community, student clubs, and provincial and national organizations; participation on external and university committees; review of new graduate programs; planning and delivery of training programs and workshops; and the adjudication of graduate scholarships, awards, and bursaries. The types of documents include meeting agendas, minutes, and supporting papers; correspondence and reports; annual reports; budgets and financial working papers; contracts; new graduate program reviews; and publications including graduate program brochures, student handbooks, and newsletters.
Series consists of records relating to the administration of the Office of the Dean of Graduate Studies. Activities, events and topics documented include a history of Graduate Studies and the Special Arrangements (SAR) program; graduate fees and admissions regulations; development of the graduate student trainee programs; graduate enrollment projections and graduate program reviews; organization of the Graduate Scholarships Day, Awards Day, and T.A. Day; graduate student surveys; and development of the Graduate Studies fact book, newsletter and student handbook. Records include correspondence and working papers, reports, statistics, financial working papers, minutes, and newsletters.
Series consists of records relating to the Dean of Graduate Studies correspondence with Graduate Program Chairs and academic departments about various issues relating to graduate studies at the university. Also included is correspondence sent and received by the Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, correspondence with the Simon Fraser Student Society and the University Council of British Columbia. Records include correspondence and working papers, minutes, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to new graduate program proposals (Master or Ph.D. level) submitted to the Dean of Graduate Studies for review and includes program descriptions, course outlines, library reviews, letters of support from external academics, faculty C.V.'s, and draft versions of final proposals sent to Senate. Records include correspondence and working papers, reports, and statistics.
Series consists of records relating to the Dean's correspondence with, and participation on, various campus and non-campus committees. The Dean served as Chair for many of the Senate Committees and was on the executive board for non-campus committees including the Canadian Association for Graduate Studies and the Western Canadian Deans of Graduate Studies Committee. For the complete list of committees, see the sub-series list below. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports, and financial papers.
Series consists of records relating to the financial administration of the Office of the Dean of Graduate Studies. The budget records include correspondence, working papers, reports, and statistics.
Series consists of records relating to the administration of graduate scholarships, awards and bursaries offered by SFU, private citizens and companies, and national granting agencies such as the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) and the National Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC). Records include terms of reference, adjudication guidelines, correspondence, working papers, reports, and financial statements.
Series consists of publications produced by the Office of the Dean of Graduate Studies. Records include annual graduate studies fact books and graduate student handbooks, graduate program brochures, a guide to graduate awards, graduate studies regulation handbooks, and reports on the citizenship of graduate students, survey of graduate studies at SFU, and guidelines on the preparation of theses, essays and projects.
Collection consists of records available in multiple formats relating to the 14-lecture series "Canadian-American Relations: Perspectives on the Columbia River Treaty" held at Simon Fraser University in 1974. The Columbia River Treaty was an agreement between Canada and the United States for flood control and the construction of dams for the generation of hydroelectricity. Four dams were constructed - three in Canada (Mica, Arrow, and Duncan) and one in the United States (Libby). The treaty was signed in 1961 but was not ratified by the Canadian Parliament. The treaty was so controversial that a Protocol was drawn up, which eventually defined the monetary terms and operational procedures without changing any of the physical plan. The Protocol was agreed upon in 1964. The lecture series was organized through the combined efforts of the Canadian Studies Program, the Department of Continuing Studies, and the Alumni Association and was chaired by Professor George Cook of the History Department. Each lecture was given by a person who had been closely connected to the Columbia River Treaty. Admission to attend the lectures was free. All lectures were held in the East Concourse Cafeteria, SFU (Burnaby campus). Collection consists of audio recordings of the Columbia River Treaty lecture series advertised by Simon Fraser University as "a series of talks and panels designed to increase public understanding of this issue in Canadian-American relations on the international, national, regional and local levels and from the political, legal, economic, geographic and social aspects." The collection also consists of transcripts compiled by BC Hydro (Dania Robinson) in 2011 from the audio recordings of the Columbia River Treaty lecture series. Due to variable audio quality, the transcripts are not a full disclosure of the lectures. Researchers are advised to review access copies of the original audio recordings. Document types include reel to reel, audio cassette tapes, digital (mp3 format) as well as transcripts (paper and PDF formats) of the audio recordings.
Lecture given by Hon. Howard C. Green, Secretary of State for External Affairs, 1959-1963.
Lecture given by Hon. Alvin Hamilton, Minister of Northern Affairs and Natural Resources, 1957-1960. Hamilton was the Chairman of The Columbia River Liaison Committee.
Lecture given by Hon. Senator Arthur Laing, Minister of Northern Affairs and Natural Resources, 1963-1966.
Lecture given by Gordon M. Shrum, Chairman, B.C. Energy Board, 1960-1972; Co-Chairman, B.C. Hydro and Power Authority, 1962-1972.
Lecture given by Bob Strachan, Leader of the British Columbia New Democratic Party; BC Leader of the Opposition, 1956-1969.
Lecture given by Dr. Neil Swainson, Political Scientist, Westwater Research Centre.
Lecture given by Larrat T. Higgins, Economist, Ontario Hydro Commission.
Lecture given by Jim W. Wilson, Executive Director, B.C. Hydro and Power Authority. Author of "People in the Way".
Lecture given by Professor Ian McDougall, Faculty of Law, Dalhousie University.
Item consists of the taped lecture given by Professor Marion Marts, Professor of Geography, University of Washington.
Item consists of the taped lecture given by Ray Williston, Minister of Lands, Forests and Water Resources for B.C., 1966-1972.
Lecture given by Professor Charles F. Bourne, faculty of Law, University of British Columbia.
Lecture given by Gordon MacNabb, senior engineering adviser to the Canadian federal government during the negotiation of the Columbia River Treaty.
Lecture given by Hugh L. Keenleyside, Chairman, B.C. Power Commission, 1959-1962; Co-Chairman, B.C. Hydro & Power Authority, 1962-1969.
The fonds consists of superceded policies and procedures.
The collection consists of material kept by Mary Wilson to document the evolution of child care at SFU. Collection includes letters, minutes, reports and other documents as well as a short history of early child care at the University in which Wilson explains the importance of each document in the collection.
The fonds consists of records made and received by the Faculty of Education in the course of administering its programs and operations. Activities documented include policy and procedures development, budget planning, and relations with staff, faculty members, and students; the self-governance of the faculty through the faculty meeting and faculty committees; the evolution of the faculty's administrative structure and its re-organizations; the administration of faculty departments and centres (prior to 1972) and program area divisions (after 1972); the development of curriculum and delivery of courses; liaison with other SFU bodies and departments, other universities, government bodies and agencies, school boards, and professional associations relating to education; and special events held by the faculty, including conferences, colloquia, and public lecture series. Textual records include meeting agenda and minutes, reports, correspondence, publications, statistics, notes and working papers. Non-textual media include photographic material, architectural drawings, and audio and audio-visual recordings. For more detailed descriptions, see the series-level descriptions. Note that there are a number of gaps in the coverage of the fonds. No records have been transferred from the Dean's office (series 1) for the period after 1984. The series of committee records (series 3) includes no or very few files from several of the faculty's standing committees (Field Programs, Appointments, Tenure and Promotion, and Research Opportunities). The holdings of the early centres and departments of the faculty (series 4) are slight, with the exception of those for the Department of Behavioural Science Foundations. Of the program area divisions established after the 1972 reorganization (five as of 2008), only one (Professional Programs) has transferred its records to the Archives (series 5).
Series consists of records made or received by the Office of the Dean of Education and includes the Dean's correspondence and subject files, as well correspondence of the Administrative Assistant to the Dean. See sub-series descriptions for activities documented and record types included.
Sub-series consists of the incoming and outgoing correspondence of the Dean of Education on matters relating to the faculty, including policy development, faculty appointments and staffing, budget, curriculum, government liaison, and liaison with various school boards. Records include correspondence (inter-university and external), reports, policies and procedures, budget and salary papers.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Dean of Education relating to matters concerning the faculty as a whole. Activities documented include the administration and restructuring of the faculty; faculty appointments, staffing, salaries and promotions; space allocation; curriculum development; the operations of the Learning Resources Laboratory; liaision with the provincial Committee on Certification (CAC); and development of faculty policy and procedures. Records includes correspondence, organization charts, policies, reports, meeting minutes, salary tables, statistics, and offers of appointment and letters of acceptance.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by Stan Kanehara, Administrative Assistant to the Dean of Education, in the course of providing administrative support to the faculty over a seven-year period (1976-1982). Activities documented include management of physical facilities and infrastructure, budget planning and financial transactions, committee administrative support, and faculty-wide dissemination of information. Records include correspondence, master copies of wide-distribution memoranda, policies, proposals, invoices, schedules, leases, statistics, and forms. Note that correspondence for 1979 is missing.
Series consists of records made or receive by the Dean of Education in the Dean's capacity as an officer of JBTE. Activities documented include Board meetings, program reviews and proposals, policy recommendations, and liaison with the provincial government and other educational agencies and institutes. Records include meeting agendas, minutes, reports, correspondence, proposals and course descriptions, recommendations, meeting schedules, budget statements, reprints and other reference material.
Series consists of the records of committees of the Faculty of Education and documents their activities and deliberations. Records include meeting agendas, minutes, supporting papers, committee correspondence, and reports; also includes one sound recording relating to an Extraordinary Faculty Meeting in April 1978 (sub-series 3, file 30).
Sub-series consists of records relating to Faculty of Education committees in general. Records include a minute book containing draft minutes of the meetings of various committees (eventually written up as formal minutes); and the faculty's annual listing of its committees (functions, composition, terms of office, membership).
Sub-series consists of the agendas, minutes, and supporting papers of the meetings of the Executive Committee. Supporting papers include reports, proposals and recommendations, correspondence, policies, budget papers, capital budget requests, teaching / research schedules and office allocations, and course proposals and descriptions.
Sub-series consists of the agendas, minutes, and supporting papers of the Faculty Meeting. Supporting papers include reports, policy and curriculum proposals and recommendations, motions, and course descriptions. There are four audio cassettes recording the proceedings of an Extraordinary Faculty Meeting in April 1978.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the President's Committee on Athletic Awards. Records include terms of reference, reports, correspondence, press releases and news clippings, recommendations and lists of recipients.
Sub-series consists of one file containing records relating to the deliberations and activities of the committee. Records include meeting agendas and minutes, correspondence, and reports.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Salaries and Promotions Committee. Records include correspondence, meeting minutes, faculty CVs and resumes, evaluations and recommendations, contract renewal forms, and salary sheets.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Professional Programs Committee in the course of its activities and deliberations. Activities documented include program and curriculum review, recommendations to the Director, the Dean, and the faculty as a whole, policy development, and liaison with subcommittees. Records include meeting schedules, agendas, minutes, reports and discussion papers, correspondence, proposals and recommendations, course descriptions, and calendar revisions. Note that there is a gap in the holdings for this series, with few records documenting the early years (only two files earlier than 1976).
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Graduate Programs Committee in the course of its activities and deliberations. Activities documented include review of course and program proposals, development of policies and procedures, curriculum development, support for graduate students, and liaison with the Senate Committee on Graduate Studies and with the Office of Graduate Studies. Records include course and program proposals and recommendations, draft calendar statements, correspondence, reports, and motions. Note that the there are gaps in the holdings. There are no committee records from 1981 to 1984 or for 1989.
Sub-series consists of one file containing records relating to the activities of the committee. Records include correspondence, reports, proposals, and recommendations.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Undergraduate Programs Committee in the course of its activities and deliberations. Activities documented include review of degree requirements and curriculum content, calendar revisions, development of policies and procedures, staffing priorities, and liaison with the Senate Committee on Undergraduate Studies. Records include meeting agendas and minutes, reports, correspondence, program proposals and recommendations, course descriptions, new course proposal forms, and statistics. Note that there are gaps in the holdings, with few records before 1983 (just two files from 1972 and 1974 respectively).
Sub-series consists of two files (from 1974 and 1978) containing records relating to the activities of the Faculty Tenure Committee. Records include correspondence, salary recommendations, meeting minutes, committee procedures, and reports.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Management Meeting / Savage Beagles in the course of their activities and deliberations. Activities documented include programs for school associates, faculty associates and program coordinators (conferences, events, orientation); external programs planning and liaison with school districts; PDP staffing and budget; and PDP curriculum, intake, and student placement. Records prior to 1985 consist solely of meeting agenda and minutes; from 1985-1987 meeting support papers were also maintained, including correspondence, reports, orientation schedules, and lists of appointments of associates and coordinators.
Sub-series consists of one file relating to the activities and deliberations of the Faculty Appointments Committee. Records include correspondence, short-lists, and interview schedules.
Sub-series consists of one file relating to the deliberations and activities of the PDP Scholarship and Awards Committee over a two-year period (1979-1981). Records include calls for nominations and list of nominees.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the activities and deliberations of the Admissions Committee. Activities documented include policy development, application adjudication, intake review and analysis, and liaison with the Registrar's Office. Records include meeting agendas and minutes, reports, recommendations, guidelines, statistics, correspondence, notes and working papers. Note that there is a gap in the records, with no files surviving from 1981 to 1984.
From 1965 to 1972 the Faculty of Education was organized into a number of separate centres and departments. This series represents the surviving records of these bodies.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Physical Development Centre in the course of its operations. Activities documented include hiring, program development, and a review of the finances, organization and needs of the Department of Athletics and Recreational Services (1970). Records include correspondence, CVs and resumes, press releases, and reports.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Head of the Department of Behavioural Science Foundations, R.J.C. Harper, in the course of administering the department. Activities documented include departmental planning (budget, enrollment, staffing, space); curriculum and program development (course planning, development of the Communication Studies program and establishment of the Department of Communication); student relations (enrollment, applications for graduate studies, registration and examinations); relations with faculty members (appointments, tenure, salaries); liaison with other university departments and participation in university, faculty and departmental committees; and liaison with external agencies and associations involved in education. Records include correspondence, reports, invitations, statistics and estimates; course proposals, outlines, and descriptions; and committee meeting agenda, minutes and supporting papers. For a list of the departments, committees, and external organizations represented in the correspondence and subject files, see the "Access points" section below.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Department of Professional Foundations / Professional Development Centre, and some of its committees. Activities documented include curriculum and program planning, policy development, student admissions, departmental meetings, departmental committees (admissions, tenure, program evaluation), liaison with other university departments and with external agencies and associations, participation in the Pacific Basin Economic Cooperation Council, and organization of the COLE conference in 1968 (Creation of a Learning Environment). Records include correspondence, reports, proposals, course outlines, studies, and meeting agendas and minutes. For a list of committees whose records are included in the files and other bodies represented in the correspondence, see the "Access points" section below.
Sub-series consists of records made or received by the Educational Foundations Centre and some of its committees. Activities documented include the internal re-organization of the Centre over 1969 and 1970 (incorporation of new departments), curriculum and policy development, departmental meetings, and the activities and deliberations of the Centre's Undergraduate Studies Committee and Department of Social Relations Committee. Records include correspondence, reports, proposals, course outlines, and meeting agendas and minutes. For a list of committees whose records are included in the files and other bodies represented in the correspondence, see the "Access points" section below.
In 1972, the Faculty of Education re-organized, moving from a departmental structure (based on centres and departments) to a functional one, based on program area divisions. This series represents records made or received by the program area offices. Note that to date (July 2008) only one program area (Professional Programs, sub-series 1) has transferred records to the Archives. Records comprise primarily correspondence and reports; see sub-series descriptions for more detail.
Records consists predominantly of correspondence, reports and course-related material. See sub-series descriptions for more detailed information. The audio cassettes are found in sub-sub-series 1 ("Director's subject files").
Series consists of records made or received by the Director of the Professional Programs division of the Faculty of Education in the course of administering the program area. Activities documented include policy development, budget planning, and staffing, including the hiring and orientation of school and faculty associates (professionals from the BC school system seconded to assist in the delivery of the PDP program); curriculum and program planning, including First Nations education, French immersion, and decentralization of SFU's PDP program; conferences, colloquia, liaison with school districts, and administration of external PDP sites; liaison with faculty task forces and committees, other units in the faculty, other SFU departments, other universities, provincial government ministries and agencies, and educational and professional associations; and student relations, advising, and post-graduation employment. Records include correspondence, reports, proposals, statistics, program information, orientation packages and handbooks, lists of faculty associates, policies and procedures, event schedules, notes and working papers, and printed reference material. For a list of organizations included in the correspondence, see the "Access points" section below.
Following the faculty's 1972 re-organization, it initiated a series of "external programs" designed to offer components of the PDP program from sites outside the SFU Burnaby campus. External sites included Coquitlam, Vancouver, North Vancouver, Burnaby, Surrey, Chilliwack, Kelowna, Kamloops, Penticton, Nelson, Vernon, Cranbrook, Salmon Arm, Mount Currie, Prince George, Dawson Creek, and Terrace. This sub-sub-series consists of the year-end annual reports summarizing the activities and administration of the various external programs.
Sub-sub-series consists of papers and reports relating to the SFU PDP program collected by the Faculty of Education as a library and research reference resource. The papers include Director's reports, program proposals and evaluations, studies by faculty members on various topics relating to teacher education, interviews, and consultants in-service program reports (reviewing support provided to school associates supervising PDP students in the classroom-teaching component of the program).
Sub-sub-series consists of records relating to the planning, administration, delivery, and evaluation of the course-work component of the PDP program and its modules. PDP course numbers fall in the 400 block: EDUC 401, 402, 405, 406, 407. Records include course descriptions, workshop and project outlines, reports, proposals, evaluations, program information, orientation handbooks, reading lists, teaching material and guides, registration procedures, student lists, schedules, forms, questionnaires, notes, working papers, and correspondence.
Series consists of course outlines, reading lists, and descriptions of assignments for Faculty of Education courses. The bulk of the files relate to graduate courses offered by the faculty between 1978 and 1994. There are only three undergraduate courses documented: EDU202 (1965-1967), EDU489 (1987), and an early file relating to a Behavioural Science Foundations course (BSF424) from 1966.
Series consists of publications produced by the Faculty of Education relating to its programs, courses, and services. Note that while the date range covers a 40-year span starting in 1965, there are relatively few publications for the period between 1988 and 1997.
Sub-series consists of Faculty of Education publications that relate to the faculty as a whole. Records include faculty-produced instructional material, handbooks, studies, and event posters; publicity material for the Summer Institute of Teacher Education (SITE); Learning Resources Centre material; the annual Administrative Guide to the Faculty of Education (ca. 1978 to 1989); and newsletters and journals, including Plain Facs (1982-1983) and Contact: Review for French Teachers (1982-1986).
Series consists of publications relating to the Physical Development Centre and its units, including Recreational Services, Athletics, and the Department of Physical Development Studies. Records include booklets, brochures, leaflets, and posters.
Series consists of publications relating to the Professional Programs division, including the Professional Development Program (PDP). Records include program information; handbooks and manuals for students, Faculty Associates, and School Associates; the Professional Foundations Centre's newsletter, Communiqué (1971-1972); registration packages and scholarship information; and the student-produced "PDP Jargon Dictionary" (1983).
Series consists of publications relating to the Graduate Programs division of the Faculty of Education. Records includes program information, brochures, handbooks, and the Graduate Programs newsletter (1997-1999).
Series consists of publications relating to the Undergraduate Programs division of the Faculty of Education. Records include program information sheets, pamphlets, and booklets.
Series consists of publications relating to the services, events, conferences and workshops offered by the Field Programs division of the Faculty of Education. Records include pamphlets, brochures, and information sheets.
Series consists of non-textual records (special media) created by the Faculty of Education and maintained separately from the textual files. Records include photographs, audio-visual recordings, and audio recordings.
Series consists of photographic material relating to the Faculty of Education. Activities and subjects documented include the operations of the Learning Resources Centre ca. 1970s; portraits of staff, faculty, and faculty and school associates ca. 1980s; the 1982 faculty Christmas party; particular PDP courses; conferences; and faculty jubilee events (1989). Formats include black and white and colour prints, contact sheets, and slides.
Sub-series consists of films and videos created by or relating to the Faculty of Education. Includes a 1972 documentary on school-community interaction at Kitkatla (Gitxaala Nation) (item 1); Brent Reid's 1981 "SFU's Professional Development Program" (item 2); a 1998 discussion with faculty members John Ellis, Selma Wasserman, and Glenn Kirchner (item 3); a series of film and video works on physical education teaching directed by Glenn Kirchner (items 4-17); materials produced by Kirchner in collaboration with Brown & Benchmark Publishers for inservice programs for elementary school teachers (items 18-21); a 1981 production by BC's Provincial Educational Media Centre (item 22); and raw footage of a 1991 physical education class (items 23-30). Many of the pieces were produced with the assistance of SFU's Learning and Instructional Development Centre (LIDC) and its predecessors; contributions from Faculty and LIDC staff are noted in the item descriptions where known.
Item is a documentary about interaction and mutual involvement between school and community in Kitkatla (Gitxaala Nation). Made for SFU's Professional Development Centre with assistance from SFU's Audio Visual Centre, 1972. Directed by Peg Klesner, with contributions by Chris Hildred and Mary Louise Williams.
Produced by SFU's Learning and Instructional Development Centre, producers Linda Hof and Ian Andrews.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with Elizabeth Carefoot (contributor), Chris Hildred (speaker), and Kurtis Vanel (sound mixing).
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Chris Hildred, Frank Campbell, Wayne Carr, and Elizabeth Carefoot.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner and Ian Andrews, with contributions by Chris Hildred, Wayne Carr, and John Dunn.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner and Ian Andrews, with contributions by Chris Hildred, Wayne Carr, and Elizabeth Carefoot.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Elizabeth Carefoot, Wayne Carr, John Dunn, Sherry Fulton, and Chris Hildred.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Wayne Carr, John Dunn, Chris Hildred, and George Longstaff.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, produced by School District No. 43, with contributions by Al Byers and Chris Hildred.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Wayne Carr, John Dunn, and Chris Hildred.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Elizabeth Carefoot, Wayne Carr and Chris Hildred.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Wayne Carr, Elizabeth Carefoot, and Chris Hildred.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Wayne Carr, John Dunn, and Chris Hildred.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner and George Longstaff, with contributions by Frank Campbell, Elizabeth Carefoot, Wayne Carr, Lou Crockett, and Chris Hildred.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Al Byers, Frank Campbell, Elizabeth Carefoot, Wayne Carr, and Chris Hildred.
Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with contributions by Al Byers, Elizabeth Carefoot, Wayne Carr, and Chris Hildred.
Moving image production shows how elementary children learn to keep time to a musical accompaniment, and the meaning of measure, accent, tempo, and musical phrase. Illustrates how children learn folk dances through a series of progressive steps. Shows how younger and older children learn to modify the dances they have learned by adding new steps, directions, and movement patterns. Designed for inservice programs for elementary school teachers. Contents: Understanding the elements of rhythm: Procedures to follow (Sitting and clapping ; Travelling and clapping ; Even rhythm) -- Using small equipment. Process used to teach folk dance: Step 1, Listen and move to music -- Step 2, Teach first part without music -- Step 3, Teach first part with music -- Step 4, Teach second part without music -- Step 5, Teach second part with music -- Step 6, Teach entire dance without music -- Step 7, Perform dance with music. Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with production assistance by Brown & Benchmark Publishers and Diane M. Smith.
Moving image production describes the similarities and differences between the content and teaching strategies used in traditional and educational gymnastics. Provides ideas and suggestions to illustrate how to integrate these two approaches according to the interest and background of each developmental level. Designed for inservice programs for elementary school teachers. Contents: Traditional gymnastics: Tumbling skills -- Balance skills -- Agility skills -- Small equipent -- Large apparatus. Teaching traditional gymnastics: Stress direct teaching method -- Teach according to progression (Headstand, Step 1-5) -- Use effective instructional techniques (Station work; Task). Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with production assistance by Brown & Benchmark Publishers and Diane M. Smith.
Moving image production describes how game activities are organized and taught to children who fall within three developmental levels of motor skill. Includes suggestions for class organization, planning lessons, and the use of direct and problem-solving teaching strategies at each level. Designed for inservice programs for elementary school teachers. Contents: Developmental level 1. Game skills: Locomotor skills -- Manipulative skills (Control ball with hands; Control ball with feet; Project ball with implement). Content and teaching strategies: Variety of activities -- Progression -- Effective strategies (Good management skills; Positive teaching; Handicapped children). Developmental levels 2-3. Game skills -- Content and teaching strategies (Individual and team sports; Teaching strategies) -- Sample lesson plan (Entry activity ; Introductory activity; Skill development ; Closure). Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with production assistance by Brown & Benchmark Publishers and Diane M. Smith.
Moving image production discusses the value and importance of a creative dance program. Describes the basic steps to follow when guiding young children to interpret ideas and feelings through creative dance activities. Stresses Laban's elements of movement. Designed for inservice programs for elementary school teachers. Step 1. Choosing a theme -- Step 2. Brainstorming -- Step 3. Exploring action words -- Step 4. Composing the dance -- Step 5. Performing the dance -- Step 6. Selecting ideas for future lessons. Directed by Glenn Kirchner, with production assistance by Brown & Benchmark Publishers and Diane M. Smith.
Item is a VHS recording of a program produced by BC's Provincial Educational Media Centre in conjunction with the Program Implementation Services Branch, Ministry of Education, to assist in implementing the Secondary Physical Education Curriculum (1980).
Item is a VHS recording of Glenn Kirchner teaching physical education instruction techniques.
Sub-series consists of audio recordings (cassettes) of the public lectures presented as part of the Faculty of Education's annual Summer Institute in Teacher Education (SITE). Note that there are no recordings for 1986.
The theme of the SITE 1983 was "New Directions in Counselling and Education". Speakers were Dr. David Aspy (Texas Women's University), Dr. Bernard Berenson (American International College), Dr. Lloyd West (University of Calgary), Dr. Jack Martin (SFU), and Dr. Bryan Hiebert (SFU). Records comprise audio cassettes.
The theme of SITE 1984 was "Computers in Education". Speakers were Daniel Watt, Nancy Flodin (British Columbia Teachers' Federation), Molly Watt, Seymour Papert, Gordon Lawrence (University of Florida), and Sandy Dawson (SFU). Records consist of audio cassettes.
The theme of SITE 1985 was "Quality School Through Staff Development". Speakers were Marv Wideen (SFU), Leo Marshall (North Vancouver School District), Linda Kaser (BC Ministry of Education), Kit Grauer (Richmond School District), Anna Steffin (Delta School District), Robert Stake (University of Illinois), Michael Fullan (Ontario Institute for Studies in Education), Walter Doyle (University of Texas), Maurice Gibbons (SFU), David Hopkins (West Glamorgan Institute of Higher Education), Lou Rubin (University of Illinois), Stan Shapson (SFU), and Ian Andrews (SFU). Records consist of audio cassettes.
Speakers at SITE 1987 were Tom Schroeder (University of Calgary), Robby Fried (Brown University), Wanda Cassidy (SFU), Milton McClaren (SFU), Robert Walker (SFU), and Kim Campbell (MLA). Records consist of audio cassettes.
The theme of SITE 1988 was "Global Issues". Speakers recorded were Lucy McNeil (broadcaster), Robert Moore (Canadian International Development Agency), Milton McClaren (SFU), Fred Knelman, Stephen Owen, David Selby (University of York), and George McRobbie (University of Pennsylvania). Records consist of audio cassettes.
Sub-series consists of audio recordings (cassettes) of a three-day public lecture series held by the Faculty of Education in July 1985, called "The Future of Education Research." Speakers were Robin Barrow (SFU), Jonas Soltis (Columbia University), Kieran Egan (SFU), Denis Phillips (Stanford University), LeRoy Daniels (University of British Columbia), and John Wilson (Oxford University). Records consist of audio cassettes.
Sub-series consists of audio recordings (cassettes) of a month-long series public lectures co-sponsored by the Faculty of Education and the Institute for the Humanities in July-Auguust 1986, called the J.S. Woodsworth Summer Institute on Peace and War. Speakers were Dr. Ursula Franklin (University of Toronto), Dr. Magaret Benston (SFU), Dr. Martin Kitchen (SFU), Dr. David Barash, Dr. Neil Kyle, George Ignatieff (University of Toronto), Dr. Doug Ross (SFU), Dr. William Vanderburg (University of Toronto), and Joanna Miller (UNICEF Canada).
Fonds consists of records created and received by the Office of the Dean in administering the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies (FIDS) and carrying out its operational functions. Activities and topics documented include the establishment, organization, operation and dissolution of the Faculty; liaison with other units in the University; the development and delivery of courses to undergraduate and graduate students; and the management of teaching personnel. Fonds includes correspondence, reports, agendas and minutes of committee meetings, policies and procedures, faculty case files, course proposals, course descriptions, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the development of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies including its administration, organization and operation, and dissolution. Activities and topics documented include, but are not limited to, the establishment and operation of the predecessor General Studies Division; the establishment of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies; the hiring of teaching personnel; and the management of labour disputes. Series includes correspondence, policies, procedures, reports, and statistics.
Records relating to the functions of the Dean as the chief officer of the Faculty. Activities and topics documented include, but are not limited to, the hiring of faculty and staff; curriculum development and delivery; university and faculty organization; policies and procedures; budgetary decisions; equipment and space allocation; and student matters such as grading policies. Series consists primarily of correspondence, but includes some reports, proposals and other types of documents.
Series consists of records relating to the ongoing activities of each department or program within the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies. Activities and topics documented include, but are not limited to, liaison of the Dean's Office with individual departments and program areas within the Faculty; departmental organization and governance; development and delivery of courses; the hiring, promotion, and awarding of tenure to faculty members; selection of chairpersons; research projects, centres and institutes; budgetary decisions; and university reviews of departmental performance. Not all of these activities are documented for each department or program area. Series includes correspondence, reports, proposals, working papers, agendas, minutes, statistics, and other documents. Addition of a sub-series in May 2004 includes records documenting the Africa/Middle East Studies program.
Series consists of records relating to committees concerned with the administration and the evaluation of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies (FIDS). The Dean's Advisory Committee consisted of the FIDS departmental chairs and program directors. FIDS was reviewed by the University Review Committee and the Presidential Advisory Committee on University Priorities; various Senate committees liaised with FIDS in matters of curriculum and student representation; and the Dean of FIDS was a key member of university committees concerned with computing policy because of the Department of Computing Science within FIDS. Series includes agendas, minutes, reports, and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the development of courses in the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, the operation of undergraduate and graduate programs, and the awarding of degrees. Series includes committee agendas and minutes, program proposals, course descriptions, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the development and delivery of courses to undergraduate students. The UGCC (also known as FISC) was composed of one faculty member from each department or program within the Faculty, the Dean, and three students. Series includes agendas, minutes, correspondence, working papers and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the development and delivery of courses to graduate students. GRIDS was composed of one faculty member from each department or program offering a graduate degree, the Associate Dean, and two students. Series includes agendas, minutes, correspondence, working papers and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the development of new courses and programs in the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies and includes both successful and unsuccessful proposals. Series includes proposals, correspondence, reports, working papers, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the delivery of General Studies courses within the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies. Series includes course descriptions, administrative forms and correspondence, and sample exams and assignments. Series also includes student proposals for individual studies projects in 400-level courses.
Series consists of the Faculty personnel files for individual faculty members. Series includes curriculum vitas, letters of appointment, and correspondence about hiring, promotion, and awarding of tenure.
The fonds consists of records made and received by the Institute of Fisheries Analysis in the course of administering its day-to-day operations. Activities and topics documented include the establishment, organization, and operation of the Institute (including its physical space); budget and funding; projects, programs, and agreements; IFA publications and publicity; and student, staff, and IFA member relations. Records in the fonds include correspondence, minutes, contracts, internal directories, reports, discussion papers, subject files (relating to fisheries research), press clippings, and IFA brochures. Note that the records of the Institute of Fisheries Analysis contain university records from the Centre for Canadian Studies and the Department of Economics and Commerce. This anomaly likely occurred because of Parzival Copes’s involvement as director and instructor within each of these bodies. The records he used would have been maintained together in whichever office he occupied. For further information on these records see the descriptions and notes for Series F-240-5: Centre for Canadian Studies records and Series F-240-6: Department of Economics and Commerce records.
Series includes records related to the general administration and organization of the Institute of Fisheries Analysis. Activities and topics documented include research and academic activities; Institute building needs and development; funding and project initiatives—with such organizations as the International Development Research Centre, the Centre for Asia-Pacific Initiatives, and the Canadian International Development Agency; and program operation. Predominant document types include Institute minutes, correspondence, memoranda, notes, reports, and one architectural drawing.
Series consists of the incoming and outgoing correspondence of the Institute of Fisheries Analysis, including the director's correspondence on matters relating to Institutional projects and programs, and correspondence with such organizations as the International Centre for Ocean Development (ICOD) and the International Development Research Centre (IDRC). Topical areas covered include research; IFA discussion papers; funding; international relationships; and student inquiries and applications. Records consist of correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of publications produced by the Institute of Fisheries Analysis relating to its organization, programs, and research. Document types include newsletters, brochures, and research papers.
Series consists of records made and received by the Institute of Fisheries Analysis (IFA) relating to its academic projects, programs, contractual agreements, and research. Topics and activities include the development of a partnership between IFA and the Asian Fisheries and Social Science Research Network; internal and external funding—including funding from the International Development Research Centre; fisheries workshops; and graduate programming. Documents include correspondence, proposals, reports, budget materials, and IFA informational booklets.
Series includes records made and received by the Centre for Canadian Studies in the course of the general administration and organization of the Centre. Topics and activities covered include policies and procedures; committee formation and meetings; external review of the Centre; development, administration, and delivery of programs and courses; and the development of bilingual programs (predominantly in French). Document types include correspondence, meeting agendas and minutes, proposals, reports, statistics, and press clippings.
Sub-series includes general administration and organization records of the Centre for Canadian Studies, as well as subject files on topics such as Simon Fraser University policies and procedures; faculty and academic appointments; budget; program development; visiting scholars; and seminars and workshops. Records predominantly consist of internal and external correspondence, memoranda, and notes.
Records for this sub-series were made and received by various Centre for Canadian Studies committees, including the Undergraduate Curriculum Committee, Steering Committee, Graduate Studies Committee, and the Canadian Studies Review Committee (which is external to the Centre). Topics include academic programs and curricula; committee constitutions and mandates; and course scheduling. Records include minutes, correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Records in this sub-series relate to various programs and courses developed and administered by the Centre for Canadian Studies. Topics covered include policies and procedures; committee formation and meetings; external review of the Centre; development, administration, and delivery of programs and courses; and the development of bilingual programs (predominantly in French). Document types include correspondence, meeting agendas and minutes, proposals, reports, statistics, and press clippings.
Series includes records made and received by the Department of Economics and Commerce in the course of its development and administration. Activities and topics documented in the records include the establishment, organization, and operation of the department; development of department policies and procedures; committee formation and meetings; department publications and publicity; student, staff, and faculty relations; development, administration, and delivery of programs and courses; salary and tenure; scholarly activities of the department; and budget. The records primarily consist of correspondence, reports, meeting agendas and minutes, contracts, posters, brochures, publications, statistics, and press clippings.
Sub-series includes subject files, and general administration and organization records of the Department of Economics and Commerce. Topics and activities covered include faculty workloads, salary, and sabbatical; department development and promotion; program and project development and administration; department meetings; budgets; and scholarly activities. Record types include correspondence, memoranda, statistics, reports, policies, posters, brochures, newsletters, and contracts.
Records for this sub-series were made and received by various Department of Economics committees, including the Promotions and Salary Committee; Promotions and Tenure Committee; Joint Faculty Committee; Appointments Committee; Nominations Committee; Undergraduate Curriculum Sub-Committee; Executive Committee; Arts Appointment Committee; Economics Graduate Committee; Graduate Curriculum Committee; Dean’s Advisory Committee; Planning and Priorities Committee; and the President’s Advisory Committee in University Priorities. Topics and activities covered include salary and workload; promotions and tenure; faculty appointments; graduate and undergraduate program development; and budget. Document types include memoranda, correspondence, policies, surveys, minutes, and reports.
Records in this sub-series relate to various programs and courses developed and administered by the Department of Economics. Topics covered include course development and administration; registration; and class assignments and examinations. Documents include syllabi, correspondence, memoranda, course handouts, reading lists, bibliographies, assignment outlines, examinations, and schedules.
Fonds consists of records relating to the personal and academic life of Peter M. Buitenhuis. Activities, topics, and events documented include course planning and instruction; academic conference attendance and presentations; Buitenhuis's research, writing, and publications; his social life and relationships; and his death and memorial. Records include correspondence; research notes; class and lecture notes; lesson plans, course syllabi, reading lists, and course work; photographs; manuscripts, publications, literary reviews, articles, and newspaper clippings.
Series consists of records made and/or received by Peter Buitenhuis in the course of his teaching career. Topics and activities covered include course instruction and planning, program development, and Buitenhuis’s teaching positions and sabbaticals. The records reflect Buitenhuis's work at such institutions as University of California Berkeley, Yale University, McGill University, and Simon Fraser University's Department of English. Records include exams; course readings, notes, outlines, and class materials; student assignments; a thesis; program proposals; Master of Publishing Steering Committee minutes; and correspondence.
Series includes materials relating to conferences, workshops, and literary juries in which Peter Buitenhuis participated, organized, or presented. Topics and activities documented include his participation on the Governor General Awards non-fiction jury, Canadian Association of American Studies conferences, a World War seminar in Paris, and a History of the Book Conference. This series includes correspondence, presentation papers, conference programs and pamphlets, newsletters, and submitted papers and presentation proposals.
Series consists of records relating to Peter Buitenhuis's writing and publications. For types of records, see sub-series descriptions.
Sub-series consists of records relating to Peter Buitenhuis's writing and publications, including a copy of his dissertation on Henry James (with associated review committee notes); correspondence with his book printer; drafts of his published works; research notes; drafts of an interview he conducted with Timothy Findley; photographs of Jack Hodgins; and an unpublished manuscript titled Empires of the Mind: British Authors' Roles in World War II. Materials include correspondence, research notes, literary drafts, manuscripts, photographs, a journal, and a notebook.
Sub-series includes records relating to numerous literary reviews written by Peter Buitenhuis for various scholarly publications, as well as news sources, such as the New York Times and the Globe and Mail. Records consist of newspaper clippings, correspondence, and manuscripts.
Series includes correspondence between Peter Buitenhuis and various friends, colleagues, and peers—including Margaret Atwood, Timothy "Tiff" Findley, Northrop Frye, Thomas Wolfe, Adrienne Clarkson, Norman Holmes Pearson, Glynn Beard, Earle Birney, Anne Cameron, Joy Kogawa, Nigel Nicolson, Peter Such, Derek Martinus, Richard Stern, Betty Lambert, and Scott Symons (see files F-242-4-0-0-1 "Correspondence", F-242-4-0-0-2 "Correspondence: II L-Z," vol 1, and F-242-4-0-0-13 Scott Symons--please note that some original documents have been removed from the files and replaced with photocopies). Series also includes records relating to Buitenhuis's personal affairs, including financial records; party arrangements; church activities; and advocacy interests and involvement. Topics documented include the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) program "Ideas," publications and manuscripts by Buitenhuis as well as other authors, Ford Maddox Ford, the Public Lending Right Commission, West Coast Energy, and Park Royal Shopping Centre. Records primarily consist of correspondence, but also include forms, a notebook, brochures, and reports.
Series consists primarily of published books, articles, and literary reviews by Buitenhuis, on a variety of topics, including E.J. Pratt, Henry James, American Studies, World War propaganda, and writers during the World Wars. The series also includes two small files containing published reviews of works written and/or edited by Buitenhuis.
Collection predominantly consists of photographic material (photographs, portraits, contact sheets, negatives, proofs, and slides) but also includes textual records such as clippings, publications, news releases, posters, and miscellaneous documents. It mainly comprises publicity material relating to the activities and topics documented by Media and Public Relations and that includes the photographing of SFU people, departments, organizations, places, and campus events for producing press releases, brochures, and other University publications.
Series consists of photographic material of faculty, administrative officers, chancellors, presidents, board of governors, honorary degree recipients, as well as biographical notes, curricula vitæ, news clippings, and published articles.
Sub-series consists of photos, contact sheets, negatives, proofs, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the School of Communication. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, contact sheets, negatives, proofs, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the School of Computing Science. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Biomedical Physiology and Kinesiology. For a list of faculty members associated with this sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the School of Engineering Science. For a list of faculty members associated with this sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos relating to individuals from the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. For individuals associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Archaeology. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the School of Criminology. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Economics. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of English. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos relating to individuals from the Department of Geography. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of History. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Linguistics. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos relating to individuals from the Department of Philosophy. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Political Science. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Psychology. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos of individuals from the Faculty of Science. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Biological Sciences. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Chemistry. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos of individuals from the Department of Mathematics. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Department of Physics. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, articles, curriculum vitae, and published material relating to individuals from the Faculty of Business Administration. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, contact sheets, articles, and published material relating to individuals from the Faculty of Education. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of articles and published material relating to individuals from the Gerontology Research Centre. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, negatives, documents, and published material relating to individuals from the University Library. For a list of faculty members associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos relating to individuals from the Archives staff. For a list of administrative officers associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, contact sheets, negatives, proofs, articles, and published material relating to administrative officers of the University. For a list of administrative officers associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, contact sheets, articles, documents, and published material relating to the Board of Governors. For a list of individuals associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, contact sheets, articles, documents, and published material relating to past chancellors and presidents of SFU. For a list of individuals associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Sub-series consists of photos, documents, and notes about Honorary Degree Recipients from SFU from 1965-2002. For a list of Honorary Degree Recipients associated with the sub-series, see access points.
Series consists of photographic materials relating to SFU athletics, athletes, and events that include basketball, football, soccer, swimming, track and field, women's athletics, wrestling, and other miscellaneous sports such as cricket, fencing, hockey, and rugby.
Series consists of photographic material relating to the SFU basketball program that includes athletic events, practices, and both individual and team photos.
Series consists of photographic material relating to the SFU football program that includes athletic events, practices, and both individual and team photos.
Series consists of photographic material relating to the SFU soccer program that includes athletic events, practices, and both individual and team photos.
Series consists of photographic material relating to the SFU swimming program that includes athletic events, practices, and both individual and team photos.
Series consists of photographic material relating to the SFU track and field program that includes athletic events, practices, and both individual and team photos.
Series consists of photographic material relating to the SFU women's athletics program that includes athletic events, practices, and both individual and team photos.
Series consists of photographic material relating to the SFU wrestling program that includes athletic events, practices, and both individual and team photos.
Series consists of photographs materials documenting SFU participation in various sports that include cricket, fencing, hockey, rugby, and mountain climbling.
Series consists of photos, negatives, contact sheets, slides, articles, press releases, poems, biographical notes, posters, audio and video tapes, and correspondence relating to individuals deemed significant by the Media and Public Relations Office. For a list of individuals associated with the sub-series, see file list.
Series consists of drawings, photos, contact sheets, slides, negatives, publications, notes, correspondence, news releases, memorabilia, photocopies, and pamphlets relating to subject files kept by the Media and Public Relations Office to keep track of ideas, news leads, and developing stories as they relate to SFU. See access points for a list of SFU departments and organizations represented in the files.
The fonds consists of records relating to the academic development of the Faculty of Science and the departmental administration of Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics. Activities, topics and events documented include the Dean's correspondence with faculty and departmental chairs; correspondence with the university community, local and international science professionals, and provincial and national organizations; departmental reviews; participation on university committees and the Management Council of the Western Canadian Universities Marine Biological Society; liaison with university research institutes; and construction of the South Science Building on campus. The types of documents include meeting agendas, minutes, and supporting papers; correspondence and reports; annual reports; budgets and financial working papers; speeches; policies and procedures; bound architectural drawings; and publications including newsletters, pamphlets, journals, conference programs, posters, research summaries, and a calendar.
Series consists of records relating to the administration of the Faculty of Science and includes minutes from the Faculty of Science meetings and Faculty of Science Chairmen's meetings; the Dean's correspondence with faculty departments, the B.C. Science Council, the University Research Park, TRIUMF, the University College of the Fraser Valley, the Eastern Islands University Development Project, and the Western Canadian Universities Marine Biology Society. It also contains correspondence with research institutes including the Theoretical Science Institute, the Institute for Energy, the Institute for Aquaculture Research, the Applied Mathematics Institute, and the Environmental Science Research Institute. Also included are departmental reviews and annual reports; the development of faculty policies, procedures, and curriculum guidelines; NSERC grant proposals and National Research Council awards and applications; and records on the construction of campus buildings including the South Science Building and drawings for the Science Complex. Records include correspondence, working papers, reports, meeting agendas and minutes, grant applications, and bound architectural drawings.
Series consists of records relating to faculty members, including staff lists, workload reports, and teaching evaluations. Records include correspondence, working papers, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the Dean's correspondence with, and participation on, departmental and university-wide committees. For the complete list of committees, see the sub-series list below. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas, minutes, and reports.
Series consists of publications produced by the Faculty of Science. Records include Faculty of Science Who's Who booklets, weekly faculty newsletters and safety bulletins, workshop and conference programs, LAMBDA - the SFU Science Undergrad Journal, Albert Einstein Centennial Lecture series posters, the Department of Biology Safety Manual, curriculum program guides, institute brochures, and one calendar.
Series consists of records relating to the financial operation of the Faculty of Science and includes administration of the faculty budget, individual departmental budgets, and operating budgets for teaching assistants and sessional instructors. Records include correspondence, budgets, statistics, reports and financial working papers.
Fonds consists of records relating to the personal, political, and academic life of Hari P. Sharma. Activities, topics, and events documented include community activism for human rights and social justice of minorities and underrepresented groups; academic conference attendance and presentations; Sharma's research, writing, photography, and publications; his social life and relationships; and his death and memorial.
Series consists of Hari Sharma's personal records arising from activities that include his travels; his educational training; his employment by SFU; and his personal accounts of relationships, illness, and other significant events in his life. Series includes correspondence, contracts, reports, legal records, notes, drafts, diaries, calendars, publications, emails, newspaper clippings, applications, financial records, certificates, and biographies.
Sub-series consists of Hari Sharma's personal records of a biographical nature that document his travels by rail through India, his retirement from SFU, his struggles with cancer, and a celebration of his life organized by friends and colleagues. Sub-series includes travelogues, lists, correspondence, notes, visa applications, newspaper clippings, copies of last will and testament, biographies, and eulogies.
Sub-series consists of personal notes and correspondence arranged chronologically. Sub-series includes incoming letters and copies of outgoing letters to friends and colleagues.
Sub-series consists of diaries and daily calendars written by Hari Sharma to track personal and professional travels, meetings, and other activities. Included are personal notes and correspondence that he kept with the diaries.
Sub-series consists of personal records documenting Hari Sharma's marriages to Jyoti Sanghera and Sailani Jothi. Sub-series includes incoming and outgoing correspondence, notes, applications, certificates, and divorce records.
Sub-series consists of Hari Sharma's income tax records that he filed annually with the Canada Revenue Agency. Sub-series includes copies of assessments, audits, returns, and statements.
Sub-series consists of personal records made and/or received by Hari Sharma during his training at the Delhi School of Social Work and at Case Western Reserve University. Includes records he kept while conducting field work in India and the US. Sub-series includes notes, articles, publications, and notebooks.
Series consists of Hari Sharma's correspondence with friends, colleagues, and peers. Series includes incoming letters and copies of outgoing letters that reflect his teaching and research interests, his involvement in revolutionary movements, and his community activism. Also includes correspondence relating to research funding, publications, recommendations, and editorial work.
Series consists of records arising from Hari Sharma's community activism work that includes helping to mobilize people toward the formation of the Indian People's Association of North America (IPANA) through his leadership, writings, and talks; systematically addressing racism in British Columbia through his committee work with the British Columbia Organization to Fight Racism (BCOFR); standing in solidarity with Indo-Canadian farmworkers in the Fraser Valley and members of IPANA in the formation of the Canadian Farmworkers Union; uniting IPANA with other groups in the community to form the Komagata Maru Historical Society with the impending 75th anniversary of the Komagata Maru incident in 1989; playing a leadership role in the creation of Non-Resident Indians for Secularism and Democracy (NRISAD) when IPANA faded away, and then helping NRISAD expand its focus to the entire South Asian region as it evolved into the South Asian Network for Secularism and Democracy (SANSAD); building relationships with members of the Secwepemc (Shuswap) Nation in south-central B.C. as co-chair of the SCES/SFU partnership; and defending human rights and social justice, often providing expert witness testimony in immigration and Workers' Compensation Board (WCB) claim cases within the South Asian community. Series includes the organizational records of BCOFR, IPANA, and NRISAD-SANSAD; interviews, transcripts, case files, notes, and correspondence.
Sub-series consists of records arising from Hari Sharma's investigative and research activities into racism in British Columbia while serving on the British Columbia Organization to Fight Racism (BCOFR) Executive Committee as a founding member and as Chairperson of the organization's Investigation and Support Committee. Includes demonstration flyers, notes, contact lists, minutes, newsletters, agendas, newspaper clippings, correspondence, memos, notices, and a pledge book.
Sub-series consists of records arising from Hari Sharma's research into institutional racism in the workplace and focuses on farm labour in British Columbia where labour migrations (from South Asia and elsewhere) have created a multiracial working class. Includes questionnaires, responses, notes, memos, membership campaign materials, and articles written by Sharma.
Sub-series consists of records arising from Hari Sharma's involvement with the founding of the Indian People's Association in North America (IPANA) in Montréal and his active participation in the Vancouver chapter. Sharma helped to produce IPANA's three publications: quarterly New India Bulletin which came out of Montréal from 1975, India Now, a monthly that was produced in New York from 1976, and Wangar, a Punjabi paper that was produced from Vancouver every two months from 1977. He also supported the focus of IPANA's work (in defense of minority rights and the principles of secular democracy in India through engagement with issues concerning the local South Asian community in their own daily lives) by helping to organize public meetings, demonstrations, lectures, films, educational study groups, and cultural programs. As Chairman of the Vancouver unit, Sharma brought together IPANA and other groups in Vancouver with their own liberation struggles to create a culture of solidarity of people's struggles that eventually led to the formation of the Third World People's Coalition (TWPC). IPANA also intervened successfully in working class struggles and in support of women facing violence within the South Asian community. Through the 1980s, IPANA dedicated its energies to the development of the Canadian Farmworkers Union and the anti-racist work undertaken by the British Columbia Organization to Fight Racism (BCOFR). Collectively, these organizations helped unite multi-ethnic communities, unions, religious groups, First Nations, students, and others in opposition to the spread of racism, hatred, and violence. Sub-series includes memos, notes, articles, correspondence, statements, minutes, press releases, reports, resolutions, contact lists, event announcements, and other publicity materials.
Sub-series consists of records relating to Hari Sharma's consulting work on legal cases, immigration and refugee board hearings, and workers' compensation cases predominantly for members of the South Asian community. Includes notes, correspondence, reports, lists, articles, testimonies, claims, and copies of legal documents.
Sub-series consists of the organizational records of Non-Resident Indians for Secularism and Democracy (NRISAD) and its successor organization South Asian Network for Secularism and Democracy (SANSAD). Includes records created, made, and/or received by Hari Sharma while serving on several committees within the organization that carried out educational and cultural activities to uphold the secular and democratic values and to oppose the agenda of extreme forces in India. Sub-series includes articles, emails, research notes, statements, flyers, notices, statements, advertisements, incoming and outgoing correspondence, brochures, tickets, programs, minutes, publications, reviews, and photographs.
Sub-series consists of records arising from Hari Sharma's involvement with the Secwepemc Cultural Education Society of the Shuswap Nation and the Simon Fraser University partnership program. Sub-series includes reports, agreements, notes, statements, correspondence, programs, booklets, newsletters, pamphlets, transcripts, lists, and proposals.
Sub-series consists of administrative records of the Komagata Maru Historical Society that were kept by Hari Sharma while he was President of the society. Records relate to research, education, funding, and publicity of commemorative events marking the 75th anniversary of the 1914 Komagata Maru incident. Sub-series consists of newspaper clippings, correspondence, minutes, brochures, photographs, letterheads, notes, emails, and some financial records.
Series consists of records arising from Sharma's research activities and conference participation. Series includes correspondence, research articles, notes, and other materials.
Sub-series consists of records compiled by Hari Sharma to support his political research interests. Research subjects covered in these records include Third World politics, India, China, Philippines, Soviet Union, Cambodia, and other topics. Sub-series includes notes, bibliographies, student papers, articles, contact lists, resource lists, and citations.
Sub-series consists of records compiled by Hari Sharma as a member of the City of Vancouver's Police/Ethnic Liaison Committee and Special Committee on Race Relations. Sub-series includes papers, notes, correspondence, minutes, newsletters, and memos.
Sub-series consists of records arising from Hari Sharma's participation in various conferences and seminars relating to his political and research interests, particularly relating to Marxism, Maoism, communalism, and other revolutionary models. Sub-series includes correspondence, notes, articles, essays, agendas, conference proceedings, planning materials, and other materials.
Sub-series consists of records arising from Hari Sharma's research activity on the politics of India and other nations in South Asia. Includes newspaper clippings, articles, correspondence, notes, book lists, and other materials.
Series consists of the organizational records of Rainbow Publishers as well as literary works, photographic essays, and scholarly writing by Sharma that relates to sociology and political science. Includes correspondence and publicity materials associated with gallery exhibitions of his photographic essays.
Sub-series consists of correspondence, announcements, notes, publicity, and financial information created, made, and/or received by Hari Sharma as one of the founders of Rainbow Publications. The publication house began as a venture initiated by Sharma, his friends, and comrades in India to inexpensively make available in India works on Marxism and socialism published in the English-speaking world.
Sub-series consists of poetry, prose, and photography created by Hari Sharma. Includes correspondence, drawing books, sketches, lists of exhibits, translations, publications, essays, publicity, applications, photographic prints, reviews, and publications in which his works appeared.
Sub-series consists of notes, interview transcripts, resources, and copies of publications written by Hari Sharma on politics in India, racism of Indo-Canadians in B.C., and other related subjects from critical, academic, and activist perspectives. Includes translated articles and works by other authors.
Series consists of non-textual records (special media) made and received by Hari Sharma and maintained separately from the textual files. Records include photographs, audio-visual recordings, and audio recordings.
Sub-series includes sound and moving image material created by or relating to Hari Sharma's personal and academic life.
Hari Sharma was a self-taught photographer and frequently took a camera with him on his travels to India and other parts of the world. Series consists of contact sheets, negatives, slides, and prints depicting people, places, and events within his personal and professional life.
The fonds of the Department of English consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, an external review, faculty files, memoranda, minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of the Department Constitution.
Series consists of correspondence received and sent by the Department Chair. It includes memoranda and reports.
Series consists of files related to the appointment, salary, and tenure of faculty members, as well as research grants. It includes correspondence, curricula vitae, memoranda and reports.
Series consists of the records of various departmental committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, minutes of meetings, and memoranda.
Series consists of materials relating to external and faculty reviews of the Department. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of files of undergraduate and graduate course outlines and examinations.
Series consists of publications of the Department, including course offerings booklets.
Series consists of materials relating to professional associations to which members of the Department belonged. It includes correspondence and memoranda.
Series consists of materials related to conferences hosted by the Department or attended by faculty members. It includes booklets, correspondence, memoranda, minutes, and reports.
This set of departmental minutes from 1967-1969 was donated to the Archives by professor and former chair Edgar F. Harden. The minutes document the first democratic procedure for electing a departmental chair at SFU.
The fonds of the Department of History consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, an external review, faculty files, memoranda, minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of departmental constitution and goals.
Series consists of correspondence received and sent by the Department Chair. It includes memoranda and reports.
Series consists of files related to the appointment, salary, and tenure of faculty members, as well as research grants. It includes correspondence, curricula vitae, memoranda and reports.
Series consists of the records of various departmental committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, minutes of meetings, and memoranda.
Series consists of materials relating to an external review of the Department in 1974. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of undergraduate and graduate course outlines.
Series consists of departmental and external publications, including the Departmental Newsletter.
Series consists of records relating to professional associations to which members of the Department belonged. It includes correspondence and memoranda.
Series consists of records related to conferences hosted by the Department or attended by faculty members. It includes booklets, correspondence, memoranda, minutes, and reports.
The fonds of the Vice-President, Finance and Administration consists of records made and received in the course of carrying out the general administration of the University. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; general supervision of units reporting to the Vice-President; participation in university committees; liaison with internal and external bodies such as the various faculties, employee associations and unions, other universities, associations, and municipalities; budget preparation; correspondence with various individuals and bodies; and speeches and engagements undertaken as a representative of the University. The types of documents include meeting agenda and minutes, correspondence, memoranda, reports, publications, and brochures.
Series consists of records relating to the relationship of the Vice-President with the President, Board of Governors, and government. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of the chronologically arranged correspondence of the Vice-President, Administration.
Series consists of records relating to the relationship between the Vice-President, Administration and the various departments and units which reported to that office. These included the Bursar, Ancillary Services, Computing, Personnel, Athletics and Recreation, and Physical Plant and Planning. The series includes correspondence, memoranda and reports.
File contains correspondence of the Vice-President, Administration with or related to Ancillary Services. Topics include theft on campus, vandalism, security incidents and issues, parking policy and space planning, parking violations, and responsibilities relating to radiological safety. Record types include correspondence and some reports.
File consists of correspondence received or copied to the Vice-President, Academic relating to the activities of the Fire and Saftey Officer. Includes a report on SFU emergency lighting and power, and correspondence with the BC Occupational Environment Branch relating to the premises of the SFU Library building.
Series consists of memoranda the Vice-President sent to or received from other bodies within the University. These other bodies include faculties, departments and other Vice-Presidents. The series includes memoranda and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the liaison of the Vice-President with various external bodies, including the Universities Council, other universities, associations, and municipalities. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the personal correspondence, private and professional activities, as well as those in which the Vice-President represented the university. It includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, post-cards and day-timers.
Series consists of records of relating to the Vice-President's involvement or correspondence with various university committees, including committees established by and reporting to the Vice-President.
Series consists of printed materials relating to reviews and proposals concerning various administrative units and programs. It includes reports prepared by administrative units or external consultants.
The fonds of the Faculty of Arts consists of records made and received in the course of the administration of the Faculty and the carrying out of its functions. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; approval of curriculum and program recommendations from departments; representation to the Senate and Board of Governors; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; and dispute resolution. The types of documents include meeting agenda and minutes, annual reports, correspondence, faculty files, memoranda, publications, reports, and working papers.
The office of the Dean came into being with the establishment of the Faculty of Arts in September 1965. As the executive officer of the Faculty and an administrative officer of the University, the Dean has been responsible to the Senate for ensuring that the functions of the Faculty were carried out. Between 1965 and 1968, the position of Dean was filled in rotation between the Faculties of Arts and Science, and the responsibilities and duties of the position were limited to membership on the Committee of Heads, consisting of the President, Deans, and the heads of departments. On 1 March 1968, the Board of Governors approved the recommendation that the Dean be a permanent position and have more extensive duties. Specifically, the position was given six major duties: 1) to act as the central budget authority for all departments and programs in the Faculty of Arts; 2) to administer all Arts non-departmental programs; 3) to coordinate curriculum development through the faculty undergraduate and graduate curriculum committees and maintain scholastic uniformity; 4) to be responsible for faculty hiring, discipline, tenure and promotion in conjunction with appropriate departments; 5) to facilitate the research undertaken by faculty members by ensuring facilities, equipment and support, and; 6) to engage in the ongoing assessment of faculty performance, through performance review, contract renewal, tenure and promotion evaluations. Further, the Dean acts as chair of faculty meetings and represents the Faculty to external bodies such as the Senate and the Board of Governors. Series consists of records relating to the activities of the Dean as the chief officer of the Faculty. The records document both administrative and operational activities, including correspondence with university and external bodies and participation on various committees. The forms of materials include meeting agenda and minutes, correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
For a list of correspondents, see Access Points.
Series consists of records and case files relating to faculty members, including staffing, appointments, salary reviews, policies, and grievances. It includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, and staff lists. Case files of faculty members are arranged alphabetically within each subseries.
Series consists of the records of various faculty committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, minutes of meetings, and memoranda.
The collection was compiled by the University Archives staff to illustrate the construction of Simon Fraser University. The history of Simon Fraser University is reflected in its world-renowned architecture. Located atop Burnaby Mountain, SFU's design was the result of a competition held in 1963 by Dr. Gordon Shrum, the newly-appointed Chancellor of the University. The goal of the competition was to produce five winners. One architect would be awarded first prize for the overall design of SFU, while four other architects would each be invited to build a section of the University under the supervision of the winner. All entries were limited to applicants from British Columbia. The informal guidelines for SFU's design consisted of a directive from Dr. Shrum entitled, "Notes from the Chancellor," which was distributed to the applicants. In this directive, Dr. Shrum noted many of the features that he felt were essential to the new university based upon his previous experience at the University of British Columbia. Among his recommendations were that students should be able to move from one part of the university to another without going outside, and that the large lecture theaters should be grouped together rather than scattered over the whole campus. Perhaps the most important of his criteria was that SFU should appear in 1965 essentially as it would look in 1995. In other words, it should look like a finished university, but also be designed for expansion. The design chosen was that of a young UBC architecture professor, Arthur Erickson, and his colleague Geoffrey Massey. The four other winners were William R. Rhone and Randle Iredale; Zoltan Kiss; Duncan McNab, Harry Lee, and David Logan; and Robert F. Harrison. The Erickson and Massey design had been the unanimous choice of the judges, and had met all the requirements that Shrum had outlined in his memo. The collection consists of photographic prints and contact sheets that illustrate the physical development of SFU including site clearance, excavation, the construction of individual buildings, and completed buildings and interiors. There are a number of aerial photographs. The collection also includes photographs of the University's opening ceremonies and the installation of Dr. Shrum as Chancellor and Patrick McTaggart-Cowan as President.
Series consists of contact sheets. The photographic subjects are: construction contract signing; aerial photographs showing the excavation and construction progress of SFU; the University's architectural design; the opening ceremonies; the first Board of Governors; a Presidential installation ceremony; and official portraits.
Series consists of photographs of construction progress of the Central Mall, the Science Complex, the Women's Residence, the Academic Quadrangle, and the Men's Residence.
Series consists of aerial shots of SFU site clearance, excavation and construction. Series also includes Installation Ceremony of Dr. Gordon M. Shrum.
Series consists of photographs of SFU architecture including completed buildings and interior views.
Series consists of photographs of SFU main mall.
Series consists of a photograph of SFU swimming pool.
Series consists of 7 aerial photographs of SFU by Lockwood Survey Corporation and others.
Collection is comprised primarily of interview material in the form of audio and video tapes, transcripts and notes. The material provides both a broad biographical overview of the life and achievements of Gordon Shrum and a description of his work at SFU in particular. The collection includes a copy of Shrum's doctoral thesis and a scrapbook that was given to Gordon Shrum in 1983. Collection includes textual records, photographs, audio cassettes, audio reels, U-matic video tapes, and VHS video tapes.
Series consists of a bound volume entitled Researches in Physics. The volume contains Gordon Shrum's doctoral thesis, "The Doublet Separation of the Balmer Lines," and two reprints about Shrum's research with his doctoral supervisor, J. C. McLennan, on the liquefaction of hydrogen and helium.
Series consists of records that provide a broad biographical view of the entire life of Gordon Merritt Shrum.
Subseries consists of materials used for the writing of Gordon Shrum: An Autobiography with Peter Stursberg, edited by Clive Cocking. This book was conceived by Darrel Zarn of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies at SFU. He approached Peter Stursberg, an experienced journalist, who conducted a series of oral history interviews with Shrum in 1983. In order to fund the interviews, they were conducted under the oral history program of the Public Archives (now the National Archives) of Canada and the Parliamentary Library. Stursberg also made a 21/2 hour video interview of Shrum at the Instructional Media Centre at SFU. In addition, he interviewed nine of Shrum's friends and Shrum's son to provide material for the books's introduction. Because Stursberg was occupied with other projects, Clive Cocking a Vancouver writer and editor was hired to complete the project. Cocking conducted a series of supplementary interviews in 1985 to clarify statistics and other facts from the oral history interviews. Unfortunately, Shrum passed away suddenly before the manuscript was completed. The finished book appeared in 1986 through the support of SFU and the University of British Columbia. The subseries contains transcripts, background materials, notes, drafts, U-matic videos, audio reels, and audio cassettes.
The subseries consists of records about the life of Gordon Shrum and includes photographs, transcripts, and a scrapbook. The transcript is from an interview conducted in July 1973 by Allen Specht as part of an oral history project at the University of British Columbia. Although the transcript includes a brief biography of Shrum, the main topic is the Canadian Officers Training Corps.
Sub-series consists of interviews with various individuals relating their experiences with Gordon Shrum. Interviews were conducted by D. Zarn and C. Duppereault. Interviewees were Harry Evans (SFU Registrar), Rob Watt (Vancouver Centennial Museum and later first Chief Herald of Canada), Lorne Davies (Director, Recreational Services and Athletics), and Professor James Wilson (Department of Geography).
Series deals with the relationship between Gordon Shrum and Simon Fraser University. Interviews and supporting materials emphasize Shrum's work at SFU in contrast to biographical materials that describe Shrum's entire life. Series contains unedited and edited transcripts and audio recordings of an interview of Gordon Shrum conducted in 1974 by Liisa Fagerlund, a librarian and University Archivist. The interview was part of an SFU oral history program. Series also includes recordings of several television shows in which Shrum is interviewed. There are two appearances on the Vancouver show, one broadcast in 1977 and another in 1985 which includes a presentation by Iona Campagnolo of a Lifetime Achievement Award to Gordon Shrum. There are also two episodes of the Jack Webster show: the September 9, 1980 show, in which host Jack Webster interviewed Shrum and SFU President George Pedersen; and another from November 15, 1983 which commemorates the life of Gordon Shrum upon the establishment of the Shrum Science Chair at Simon Fraser University. Series also contains textual material, and audio and video recordings of the dinner held in honour of Shrum to establish the "Gordon M. Shrum Chair in Science" November 19, 1983.
Tape consists of interviews and discussions with K. George Pedersen, President of Simon Fraser University since 1979 and Gordon Shrum, first Chancellor of Simon Fraser University (1964-1968) on the occasion of Simon Fraser University's 15th anniversary. Recorded from commercial broadcast by Instructional Media Services SFU.
Item is a videotaped recording of the 1985 Vancouver Awards, hosted by Laurier LaPierre and broadcast on CKVU. Gordon Shrum was the recipient of a Lifetime Achievement Award, presented by Iona Campagnolo. Other award recipients include Betty Fox, recipient of the Vancouver Woman Award, Steve Fonyo, recipient of the Sweney Award for Supreme Achievement, Rick Hansen, recipient of the Terry Fox Award for Chivalry and Courage, and the Killarney High School Jazz Band, recipient of the Sweney Award for Best High School Band in Vancouver.
The fonds consists of records created, received and collected by Gordon M. Shrum. Records reflect his involvement with Simon Fraser University as Chancellor, his contribution to building the new university and his interest in education and SFU after he retired as Chancellor. Includes correspondence, reports, briefs, memoranda, photographs, architectural drawings, publications, and newspaper clippings.
Series consists of records relating to a number of issues, activities and areas of interest relating to Gordon M. Shrum's involvement with Simon Fraser University. Records reflect information on the architectural competition to design SFU, convocation, staff, scholarships, and other like topics. Includes correspondence, reports, briefs, memoranda, architectural drawings, and publications.
Series consists of press clippings collected by and for Gordon M. Shrum. Press clippings reflect information about education and Simon Fraser University.
The fonds consists of records arising from the mandated functions of the Board of Governors as described in the administrative history. The fonds includes meeting minutes, agendas, and supporting documents; reports; financial papers; contracts; architectural drawings; search and review committee records including c.v.'s, reference letters, and appointment forms; news clippings and other documents. The fonds also includes a collection of policies and procedures, many of which had to be approved by the Board. The fonds is arranged into the following series: - [Official Minutes](f-33-1) - [Agenda support papers](f-33-2) - [Policies and procedures](f-33-3) - [Correspondence](f-33-4) - [Board reports](f-33-5) - [Special hearings](f-33-6) - [Committees](f-33-8) - [Minute appendices and indexes](f-33-9) - [Meeting dockets](f-33-10) - [Board Retreats and Strategy Sessions](f-33-11)
Series comprises official minutes of regular meetings including open, closed and confidential sessions as well as official minutes of special Board meetings. Includes official appendices comprising committee minutes, correspondence, financial statements, correspondence, reports, lists of appointments and other documents. Open sessions are open to all members of the University community and the public; closed sessions are restricted to Board members, the Board secretary, the Vice-Presidents' group, the director of Media and Public Relations, and anyone else who has the permission of the Board Chair to attend. Confidential sessions are restricted to Board members, the Secretary of the Board, and anyone else who has the permission of the Board Chair to attend. These records are used to document all deliberations of the Board including the passage of motions and resolutions and the approval of governing decisions. Until approximately 1975, all Board sessions were considered closed. After that time, meetings were divided into open and closed sessions. In 2004, official meeting minutes began to be filed together with agenda support papers into docket packages. To view official meeting minutes from 2004 onwards, see series F-33-10 Meeting dockets.
These files were kept by the Secretary and Assistant to the Board of Governors and contain documents that provide background information for the various agenda items. In most cases, the documents formed part of packages that were sent to Board members, selected University officials, and campus organizations prior to each Board meeting. A few documents were kept by the Board secretary for her own reference and did not circulate. After 2003, agenda support papers were filed in docket packages alongside the meeting agendas and minutes. To view support papers from 2004 onwards, see series F-33-10 Meeting dockets. Series includes agendas, unsigned minutes, and support papers including correspondence; reports; financial statements; board committee minutes, contracts; architectural drawings; personnel records such as c.v.'s, reference letters and appointment forms; news clippings and other documents. Donna Laws was the Board Secretary from 1968 to 1993.
The Board of Governors approves all academic policies, most general policies unless they are procedures, and significant administrative policies. Series consists of policies and procedures and working files.
Subseries consists of an early set of policies and procedures relating to the President's Office, General Services, the Library, Purchasing, Personnel and the Registrar's Office.
Subseries consists of working files relating to the development of policy groups: GP (General), AC (Academic), and AD (Administrative). Includes drafts, memos and other documents.
Subseries consists of AC series policies and their revisions over time. In 1992, the AC policy series were replaced by policy series A, R and T.
Subseries consists of A series policies and their revisions over time.
Subseries consists of R series policies and their revisions over time.
Subseries consists of T series policies and their revisions over time.
Subseries consists of AD series policies and their revisions over time.
Subseries consists of G series policies and their revisions over time.
Subseries consists of B series policies and their revisions over time.
Subseries consists of I series policies and their revisions over time.
Series includes correspondence of Board officers including secretaries (C. J. Frederickson and R. E. Lester); and chairs (R. E. Lester, Kenneth Caple, and Paul Cote).
Series comprises 33 reports to the faculty of Simon Fraser University regarding actions taken by the Board of Governors. Also includes a progress report on the University Library.
In the fall of 1969, nine professors in the Department of Political Science, Sociology, and Anthropology withdrew their services in response to the department being put under trusteeship by the University administration. The University appointed a trustee because of allegations of departmental mismanagement of finances. The department also did not produce a constitution and tenure committee structure that were acceptable to the University administration. Various student and faculty support strikes and protest actions followed. The President suspended nine PSA faculty members who were most actively involved in the strike and later fired seven of them. The series comprises audio recordings of the suspension hearings held by the Board of Governors for six of those faculty members. The Board conducted the hearings to enable faculty members to appeal their suspension by the President. In each case, the Board upheld the decision by the President to suspend the faculty members. Additional legal proceedings followed the suspension hearings.
The Board established a Presidential Search Committee in 1968, in 1973, and again in 1978 to recommend candidates for the position of University President. The committees included Board members: faculty, administration, and student representatives; and later alumni and employee representatives. The series contains records relating to the work of these committees. Includes correspondence, agendas, minutes, terms of reference, procedures, lists of candidates, c.v.'s, reports, press releases, and clippings.
This series comprises records pertaining to the establishment, execution of responsibilities, integration, and dissolution of committees; as well as task forces formed to support the Board of Governors in achieving its objectives. It encompasses standing committees and ad hoc committees. The records include committee meeting agendas, minutes, and notes; memos; reports; budget projections; project plans; correspondence; contracts; bargaining agreements; proposals; curriculum vitae and applications; policies and procedures; financial statements; terms of reference; promotional materials and articles; lists of award recipients; student surveys; and presentations.
Since 1968, the Board has been establishing Presidential Search Committees to recommend suitable candidates for appointment as President of SFU. Additionally, Committees to Review the President Prior to Reappointment have been set up to assess current Presidents for potential reappointment. Both types of committees include Board members, faculty, administration, student representatives, and later on, alumni, employee, and student representatives. This sub-series comprises records related to the activities of both the Presidential Search Committees and the Committees for Presidential Review Prior to Reappointment. It also includes any records associated with the annual presidential review that support the process of reappointment. The records encompass meeting agendas, minutes, and documents; agreements and contracts; terms of reference; procedures and policies; candidate lists; correspondence; curriculum vitae; applications; letters of recommendation; advertisements; memos; reports; press releases; and clippings.
The Board's first three Presidential Search Committees were formed in 1968, in 1973, and 1978, to recommend candidates for the position of University President. This sub-sub-series consists of records related to the Presidential searches and subsequent appointments that occurred during these dates. Includes correspondence, agendas, minutes, terms of reference, procedures, lists of candidates, curriculum vitae, reports, press releases, and clippings.
This sub-sub-series consists of records related to the Presidential search and subsequent appointment made in 1992.
This sub-sub-series comprises records related to the creation and updating of policies and terms of reference for both the Presidential Search Committees and the Committees to Review the President Prior to Reappointment. The records include terms of reference, procedures, memos, and correspondence.
This sub-sub-series consists of records related to the Committee’s review of President Jack Blaney’s performance, in consideration of reappointment.
This sub-sub-series consists of records related to the Committee’s review of President John Stubbs' performance, in consideration of reappointment.
This sub-sub-series consists of records related to the Presidential search and subsequent appointment made in 1999.
The Committee was established in November 2004 with the purpose of reviewing President Dr. Michael Stevenson for reappointment. This sub-sub-series comprises records related to this specific activity and includes memos, reports, correspondence, notes, policies, agreements, contracts, as well as committee meeting agendas, minutes, and other supporting documents.
This sub-series contains records created by the Employee Relations Committee in fulfillment of its responsibilities concerning salary policies, material changes, and framework agreements. These records also encompass the approval and reporting on negotiating parameters, collective agreements, and policies associated with employee groups' terms of employment, as well as the establishment, termination, or adjustment of pension and employee benefit plans. The records include meeting agendas and minutes, correspondence, reports, contracts, and bargaining agreements.
Also called the Advisory Committee on University Investments, the Investment Advisory Committee was formed to provide investment advice and oversight to the University treasury function. The Committee was also responsible to act in an advisory capacity to the Board on investment matters. This sub-series consists of records related to the Committee’s advisory activities. Includes committee meeting agendas, minutes, and papers including reports; memos; correspondence; and policies.
Formed in 1986, the Signature Authorization Committee was a standing committee empowered to appoint signing officers of the University. The Committee was active until it was dissolved and had its responsibilities absorbed by the Finance and Administration Committee in 2004. This sub-series consists of records related to signing authorization activities pre-2004. Includes memos; correspondence; meeting agendas and minutes; guidelines, procedures and terms of reference; as well as contracts and agreements.
This sub-series comprises records created during the activities of the 25th (or Silver) Anniversary Advisory Committee and the 25th Anniversary Implementation Committee, along with all their associated sub-committees. The Silver Anniversary Advisory Committee was established to plan events and celebratory activities in honor of SFU's 25th anniversary, with the theme "SFU - 25 years of making a difference in your life." The records include committee meeting agendas and minutes, memos, reports, budget projections, project plans, and correspondence.
This sub-series consists of records related to the activities of the Executive Committee. This standing committee served to exercise all powers and perform all duties of the Board of Governors in the case of urgent matters where it was not possible to wait for a scheduled Board meeting. The Executive Committee later merged with the Compensation Committee to form one entity. Includes meeting agendas and minutes, curriculum vitae, memos, contracts, proposals, and correspondence.
The JUAC sub-committee brought the University together with the Administrative and Professional Staff Association (APSA) to collaboratively address matters related to administrative policies. This sub-series consists of records related to this Committee's work creating and revising administrative policies. Includes memos, policies, procedures, agreements, and correspondence.
The Compensation Committee was formed in 1989 for the purposes of determining the annual salaries of senior administrative executives whose positions did not fall under existing agreements or salary administration policies. This included the President, VP Academic, and VP Finance. At the time of formation, the Committee’s membership included: the Board Chair as Chair of the Committee, the Chair of the Administration/Finance Committee, and the Chair of the Employee Relations Committee. The Compensation Committee later became one entity with the Employee Relations Committee. This sub-series contains records related to the formation, evolution, and work of this committee. Includes meeting agendas and minutes; correspondence; and memos.
This sub-series consists of records related to the activities of the Ad Hoc Board Governance Committee. Formed in 1994, the Ad Hoc Board Governance Committee served to develop policies on Board Governance and bring recommendations to the Board. Includes memos, policies, and meeting agendas.
This sub-series consists of records created by the Revenue Enhancement Task Force in fulfilling its mandate to review existing sources of operating revenue, consider potential sources of new revenue, and bring recommendations to the Board on an operating revenue enhancement strategy for the future. Includes memos; classified advertisements; reports including drafts, final copies, and working notes; correspondence; and terms of reference.
This sub-series contains records related to the activities of the Committee on the Chancellor's Distinguished Service Awards. This Committee was formed to review nominations and select recipients for the annual Chancellor's Distinguished Service Award as well as to recommend criteria and policy to support the awarding process. Includes memos; correspondence; articles; meeting agendas and minutes; recipient lists; terms of reference; and curriculum vitae.
This sub-series comprises records created by the Search and Review Committees tasked with the responsibilities of reappointment or recruitment, nomination, and recommendation for the appointment of vice-presidents and departmental deans. The records encompass meeting agendas and minutes, curriculum vitae, terms of reference, correspondence, and other relevant supporting documents.
This sub-sub-series consists of records related to the search and subsequent appointments made for the positions of Vice President, Research and Dean, Graduate Studies.
The Vice-President, Research Search Committee was formed to oversee the reappointment or recruitment, nomination, and recommendation for appointment of a candidate for the position of Vice-President, Research. Records in this sub-sub-series relate to these activities as well as to the nomination and selection of committee members. Includes meeting agendas and minutes, curriculum vitae, terms of reference, and correspondence.
The Audit Committee functioned as a standing committee with the responsibility of recommending the approval of annual financial statements to the Board of Governors. It also received the Audit Report from the Provincial Auditor General, oversaw the Internal Audit Report, and monitored the Annual Insurance and Risk Management Report. Additionally, the committee recommended approval of policies related to asset insurance. This sub-series comprises records associated with the committee's tasks and includes meeting agendas and minutes, reports, financial statements, terms of reference, and correspondence.
This sub-series consists of records created by the standing Academic Operations Committee. Responsibilities of the Committee encompassed the areas of academic administrative appointments; academic personnel; academic policy; faculty renewal plan; renewal, tenure, and promotion recommendations; as well as Senate Recommendations. Includes meeting agendas and minutes, reports, memos, correspondence, and terms of reference.
The Finance and Administration Committee was a standing committee responsible for ensuring adherence to Budget Policy Objectives, oversight of the University's financial operations and results, receival of reports on capital projects over 1.5 million, as well as receival of reports on adequacy and condition of capital assets. This sub-series contains records related to these responsibilities. Includes meeting agendas and minutes; reports; correspondence; and memos.
This sub-series consists of records created by the Nominating Committee of the Board of Governors. This entity was a standing committee whose purpose was to receive nominations and make recommendations for Board approval of candidates for the position of Chair of the Board and Deputy Chair of the Board. The Committee was also responsible to recommend persons to sit as members on ad hoc committees. Includes meeting minutes and notes; correspondence; terms of reference; memos and a directory of Canadian Universities.
This sub-series consists of records created by the Advancement Advisory Committee while advising on a broad range of advancement activities, including fundraising, alumni relationships, and special activities. Includes meeting agendas and minutes, reports, memos, correspondence, and terms of reference.
This sub-series consists of records related to the activities of the Governance Working Group. The final report and recommendations issued by this group resulted in the formation of the Governance Committee in July of 2004. Includes meeting agendas, memos, correspondence, and presentations.
This sub-series consists of records related to the activities of the Governance Committee. This Committee was formed in July 2004 as a result of a final report and recommendations provided by the Governance Working Group. The Governance Committee's responsibilities included regular review of Board Policy 10.01; ensuring effectiveness of the Board Orientation Strategy; monitoring University Governance trends; ensuring effective coordination with Board committees, Senate, and stakeholders; as well as evaluating the Board and making recommendations for improvement. Includes meeting agendas and minutes, terms of reference, recommendations, memos, correspondence, draft Board evaluation forms, reports, and best practice guidelines.
This sub-series consists of records created by the ad hoc committee that was formed to examine and improve the University's Media, Communications, Government, and Community Relations. The Committee was a precursor entity to the External Relations Committee. Includes meeting agendas, schedules, minutes, and notes; reports; presentations; promotional materials; and student surveys.
This series consists of indexes to the Board of Governors official minutes of regular meetings. The indexes are arranged chronologically. A list of all Members of the Board of Governors and details of each individual’s term; as well as a list of all Chancellors, Chairs of the Board, and Presidents from 1963-2000 are included at the beginning of the indexes.
This series comprises meeting dockets distributed to Board members, selected University officials, and campus organizations before each regular meeting, starting from 2004 onwards. The dockets include minutes from the previous meeting for approval, along with the current meeting agenda and all pertinent support papers. Includes meeting agendas, minutes, and support papers including correspondence; reports; financial statements; board committee minutes; contracts; architectural drawings; personnel records such as curriculum vitae, reference letters, and appointment forms; news clippings, and other documents. For minutes or agendas and support papers related to meetings held before 2004 when these records were kept separately, please refer to series [F-33-1: Official Minutes](f-33-1) and [F-33-2: Agenda support papers](f-33-2).
This series consists of records created during the planning and facilitation of retreat events attended by Board executives and members. The retreats involved socializing and networking, discussing issues and concerns relevant to the Board, reflection on University events and priorities, as well as strategic planning. Includes retreat agendas and notes, memos, invoices, reports, presentations, correspondence, evaluation forms, event facility brochures, articles, speaker bios, and maps.
Fonds consists of records made and received by Ron Baker in his roles as academic planner, and charter faculty member, as well as additional materials relating to SFU's history. Includes personal and professional correspondence, reports, reference materials, a memoir by Baker about the early history of SFU, and other documents.
Series consists of personal correspondence between Frances M. Frazer and Ron Baker. Includes day-by-day accounts of the writing of the Macdonald Report and the planning and beginnings of Simon Fraser University.
While still a faculty member at UBC, Baker became one of the chief contributors to John B. Macdonald's report, Higher Education in British Columbia and a Plan for the Future. This report led directly to the government's decision to establish a second university (SFU) in the Lower Mainland. Baker also served on the provincial Academic Board for Higher Education, established to advise the government on applying the recommendations of the Macdonald Report. Records in this series relate to Baker's work on the Macdonald Report and the Academic Board as well as his role as academic planner and a charter faculty member in the early years of SFU. These files supplement the official records of the Office of Academic Planning, F 49. Includes personal and professional correspondence, reports, reference materials, a memoir by Baker about the early history of SFU, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the activities of Ron Baker as academic planner for Simon Fraser University. Series includes correspondence, statistics, agendas, minutes, publications and other documents.
Fonds consists of records reflecting the academic and personal life of Douglas Cole. The correspondence series consists primarily of the personal views of Dr. Cole on matters of historical scholarship, university affairs and his own career as a professor. A few letters were made or received by Dr. Cole in his capacity as a University employee performing his official duties –– for example, marking students' work and providing reference letters. Fonds also includes some unpublished articles, conference papers, research notes and lectures.
Series consists of correspondence created and received by Dr. Douglas Cole in both his personal and professional life. Includes records that reflect his teaching and research interests, and his involvement in various university committees and professional offices. Also includes correspondence relating to awards, honours, and citations, research funding and publication of work.
Series consists of unpublished work of Dr. Douglas Cole. Records reflect topics in Canadian and art history, such as anthropological exploration in the northwest, Indian policy, aesthetic views of the Canadian wilderness, and the like. Includes articles, conference papers, research notes and lectures.
Fonds consists of records made or received by Thelma Finlayson. Records reflect Professor Finlayson's research interests, teaching activities, administrative service to SFU, and participation in scholarly organizations. Includes correspondence, referee reports, lecture schedules, midterm exams, final exams, marking schemes, laboratory lessons, newsletters, agendas, publications, press releases, newspaper clippings, drawings and graphs. Fonds is arranged into 5 series: 1. Correspondence 2. SFU subject files 3. Publications 4. Course files 5. Drawings
Series consists of correspondence made or received by Thelma Finlayson. Activities and topics documented include entomological research, the publication of Professor Finalyson's scholarly papers, adjudicating other scholars' research, providing recommendations for academic positions, and service in professional organizations. One file contains correspondence regarding the publication of a two-volume work on the immature stages of insects. This work represented the first new information on this subject in over 100 years.
Series consists of records relating to Professor Finlayson's administrative service and membership in Academic Women. Includes correspondence and newsletters.
Series consists of records relating to Professor Finlayson's administrative service and membership in Academic Women. Includes correspondence and newsletters.
Series consists of records relating to classes that Professor Finlayson taught at Simon Fraser University including Biological Sciences 102 and Biological Sciences 317 (Entomology). Includes lecture schedules, midterm exams, final exams, marking schemes, and laboratory lessons.
Series consists of illustrations and graphs by Thelma Finlayson and copies of publications written or co-authored by her. Drawings depict structure and detail of larvae, cocoons, puparia, spiracles, and other insect anatomy. File F-37-5-0-0-10 and files numbered from F-37-5-0-0-12 through to F-37-5-0-0-35 are drawings associated with "The Systematics and Taxonomy of final-instar larvae of the family Aphidiidae (Hymenoptera)" publication, which is protected by copyright, and the copyright for these drawings subsides with the Entomological Society of Canada.
The fonds consists of records created and received in the course of the formation, establishment and operation of the union, primarily during the period 1976-1987. The records reflect the initial drive to charter, organize and certify the union; the internal administration of the union, including elections and finance; negotiations with the administration to establish and renew contracts; efforts to maintain, expand, represent and inform the membership; participation in the provincial organization of the Association of University and College Employees and cooperation with other AUCE locals, and other unions; and involvement in industrial action. Also included are records of the Graduate Students' union, a forerunner, though not direct predecessor, of TSSU. The records include the charter and bylaws; committee agendas and minutes; financial statements; correspondence; membership lists; election materials; reports; negotiation minutes and collective agreements; mediation and hearing records; convention minutes; strike materials; publications and publicity materials. The records as received had no obvious overall arrangement. Duplicate material has been removed where practicable, but the mixed nature of the files requires researchers to be prepared to search for records on matters of interest.
Series consists of records relating to the operation of this predecessor of the TSSU. Activities documented include the establishment of the GSU, negotiation of responsibility for graduate matters with Simon Fraser Student Society, organizing meetings, membership expansion, researching current graduate conditions and proposing improvements through reports and lobbying, participation in university committees, liaison with other university graduate student organizations, and publicizing efforts through newsletters. Records include GSU statutes, policies and history; extensive correspondence including legal advice on the GSU's status; meeting notices, agendas, notes, and accounts; membership and election material; reference and research sources; reports and papers (e.g. on the need for a teaching assistants' union); and newsletters.
Series consists of records relating to the formation, chartering, growth, and official recognition of AUCE Local 6/TSSU. Activities documented include the charter application; early organizing, steering, executive and membership committee meetings; the identification, lobbying, and processing of new bargaining unit members; training departmental representatives; publicizing union activities; informing departments of the implications of unionization; researching and preparing submissions for Labour Relations Board Certification hearings; attending and recording LRB hearings; and pursuing members' grievances through LRB hearings. Records include the AUCE 6 charter and by-laws; meeting agendas and minutes; membership publicity and correspondence (including correspondence with TSSU opponents); instructional materials; TSSU publications, including AUCE and TSSU: memoirs of a feminist union 1972-1993; anti-TSSU publicity and petitions; LRB certification drafts and submissions; LRB hearing transcripts (re Labour Code sections 42 [bargaining unit], 51 [certification] and 52 [decertification]) and related correspondence; and LRB grievance submissions, evidence and correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to the development, agreement and renewal of contracts between SFU and the TSSU. Activities documented include preparatory research by the TSSU contract committee; article by article negotiation meetings between the administration and union; LRB mediation hearings (re e.g. alleged violations of section 51 and 61 freezes on working conditions); ratification ballots of the union membership; and the implementation and monitoring of the completed agreements. Records include comparative tables of articles from similar agreements at other Canadian universities; workshop and seminar notes; union and administration drafts of contract articles; transcripts and minutes of negotiation meetings (some from identified personal files); administration/union correspondence; mediation applications and notices; draft and signed copies of final agreements; letters of agreement; ballot notices, instructions and results sheets; press announcements; and implementation documents (e.g. pay schedules) and correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to the election and business of the executive committee. Activities documented include the nomination and election of committee members; committee discussions, decisions and actions; and executive correspondence. Records include nomination calls and notices; candidate biographies and statements; ballot instructions, forms and result sheets; minutes (1980-81 only); telegrams and letters concerning union business to members, the university administration, and other unions.
Series consists of records relating to the recruitment and maintenance of an active membership. Activities documented include the recruitment of new members, the maintenance of a current membership file, and communication with members. Records include lists of bargaining unit members and teaching assistant appointments, and some correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to the work of the TSSU's departmental representatives, and the work of chief stewards. Activities documented include the training of stewards, publicizing of stewards' activity, and the chief stewards' supervision of stewards' work. Records include lists of stewards, stewards' bulletins, reports of chief stewards to the executive and membership, training materials, correspondence and notices.
Series consists of records relating to TSSU's financial accounting and audit. It comprises an incomplete sequence of financial statements and audit reports.
Series consists of records relating to TSSU publicity and the provision of information to members and potential members, together with some anti-TSSU material. TSSU activities documented include appealing to and educating potential bargaining unit members, publicizing established rights, gathering information, and the maintenance of existing members' awareness of current union activities. Records include notices and letters for and against the union, runs of La Chispa, La Chispa Bulletin, Bulletin, and TSSU/AUCE 6 Bulletin, a questionnaire, correspondence, press releases and clippings.
Series consists of three sub-series of records relating to TSSU's involvement with AUCE Provincial, its sister locals, and other unions and union organizations. Activities documented include participation in provincial conventions and committees, liaison with AUCE locals, and the exchange of information with other unions and provincial and national labour organizations. Provincial records include the AUCE Provincial constitution, policies and procedures; convention agendas, reports, minutes, proposals, resolutions, and press releases; Affiliation Committee agendas, minutes, transcripts, reports and bulletins; Executive Committee agendas, local reports, financial statements, minutes and correspondence; and provincial bulletins and resource lists. Local records include by-laws; committee reports and minutes; correspondence; bulletins, press releases and press clippings; cross-local packages; and Labour Relations Board appeals. Other union records include, variously, constitutions and collective agreements; bargaining unit profiles, handbooks and information sheets; reports and newsletters; and resolutions and correspondence with such organizations as the Service, Office and Retail Workers' Union of Canada (SORWUC); the B.C. Federation of Labour; and the Confederation of Canadian Unions.
Series consists of records arising from TSSU's involvement in the 1979 AUCE 2 strike over wages and temporary employee rights. Activities documented include the discussions and decisions of the TSSU Steering Committee and TSSU emergency meetings, TSSU participation in the joint Academic Penalties Committee and the Job Action Committee, members' strike action, and the actions of the SFU 18 Defense Committee. Records include agendas, minutes, motions and reports; correspondence and memoranda to union members, the university community, and administration; publicity materials for and against the strike, including a petition; administration, departmental and student notices and statements; bulletins, news releases and press clippings. Details of strike action are included in lists of members respecting picket lines, the picket captain's register and sign-up sheets, individual job action reports, and letters of resignation from the TSSU.
Series consists of records relating to TSSU's participation as an affiliate of Operation Solidarity and the Solidarity Coalition in the province-wide opposition to the 1983 Social Credit government budget and its proposed legislation. Activities documented include TSSU membership meetings and resolutions in support of the B. C. Government Employees Union and Operation Solidarity; the formation and operation of a Strike Coordination Committee; involvement in the SFU Budget Coalition; picketing and labour withdrawal; liaison with other labour organizations; and communication with SFU administration and TSSU members. Records include TSSU resolutions and strike vote sheets; SFU's affidavit and Labour Relations Board complaint against TSSU and other unions for illegal labour withdrawal and picketing; TSSU Strike Coordination Committee meeting notes; SFU Budget Coalition minutes and press releases; picket schedules, lists of participants and of those observing picket lines; motions, minutes and notices from the steering committees of Operation Solidarity and the Solidarity Coalition; bulletins and press releases from the Solidarity groups and the B.C. Federation of Labour; correspondence with SFU administration and TSSU members; and various strike and meeting notices, and press reports.
The fonds of the Society comprises records made and received in the course of administering the organization and carrying out its functions and programs. Geographically, SCWIST activities centre primarily on British Columbia. Activities documented include Annual General Meetings and monthly Executive Board meetings; administration of the Resource Centre; funding and financial management; liaison with other bodies; conferences and networking events; educational outreach programs; advisory work; advocacy and public relations. Records include constitution and by-laws; meeting agendas and minutes; correspondence; financial summaries and reports; presentations, reports and briefs; handbooks, manuals and publications; photographs; and audio recordings of Society conferences and workshops.
Series comprises records relating to the establishment and operation of the SCWIST Resource Centre, which carries out many of the Society's administrative duties. The Resource Centre was opened in 1992 in offices at the Harbour Centre campus of Simon Fraser University, Vancouver. In 1996 it relocated to the downtown Vancouver YWCA building. The Centre is staffed by a paid Coordinator. Activities documented in this series include the establishment of the Resource Centre, its official opening in 1992, and staffing. Records consist of correspondence; grant applications and supporting documentation; reports; and invitations, guest book and audio recordings of the official opening.
Series comprises records relating to the Society's management of its financial resources. Activities documented include application for registered charity status, internal reviews and monitoring of accounts, and annual tax and information returns. Records consist of accounting policies; account summaries and financial reports; correspondence; registration application form and supporting documentation; and annual tax and information returns.
Series comprises records relating to the Society's interaction and work with outside individuals, groups, coalitions and government bodies. Activities documented include responding to requests for information, membership or resource material; correspondence carried out by the President and other SCWIST officers; presentations and advice to governments; and participation of SCWIST in two other bodies – the Partners in Science Awareness Committee (PISAC, a provincially funded granting agency) and the Women's Employment and Training Coalition (WETC). Records consist of correspondence, reports and briefs; and copies of PISAC and WETC meeting minutes, support papers, and publicity brochures.
Series comprises records relating to the structure and governance of the Society as an organization. Activities documented include the establishment of the constitution and by-laws; reviews of SCWIST history; and Annual General Meetings and monthly Executive Board meetings. Records consist of constitution and by-laws; correspondence; reports; and meeting agendas, minutes and support papers.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the evolution of the Society, its mandate, structure and the duties of officers. Records consist of the SCWIST constitution and by-laws; correspondence; reports on job descriptions, roles and responsibilities; lists of Executive Board directors; and retrospective reviews of the Society's history.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the Society's Annual General Meeting (AGM) held each spring at the end of the fiscal year. The first AGM was held in 1982. AGMs are open to all members of the Society, and all members in good standing have full voting rights. At the AGM members receive reports from directors of the Executive Board and from committee chairs; elect new Executive Board directors for the coming year; approve nominations for honorary membership; determine membership fees; and vote on proposed motions, standing rules and amendments to the constitution or by-laws. Records consist of programs, agendas, minutes, reports, financial statements, audits, lists of nominations, proposals, motions and resolutions, publicity brochures and attendee lists.
Sub-series comprises records relating to meetings of the Society's Executive Board of Directors. The Board consists of the president, two vice-presidents, treasurer, secretary, two directors at large, and the past president as a director ex officio. Directors are elected at the Annual General Meeting and serve one-year terms. The positions are all volunteer and directors are not remunerated, although they may be reimbursed for their expenses. According to the SCWIST constitution, Board meetings must be held at least four times per year, but typically meetings are held monthly. Board meetings are open to all members of the Society, but only directors may vote. The meeting hears reports from each director and committee, in addition to other Board business. Records consist of agendas, minutes, reports, financial statements, correspondence, proposals, and publicity brochures.
Series comprises records relating to the activities undertaken by the Society to realize its educational, outreach and professional networking goals. Activities documented include the organization of networking events, conferences and panel sessions; development of professional and educational resources; and design of on-going outreach programs for educators, parents, primary- and secondary-school students and the general public. Records include correspondence; reports; grant applications and supporting documentation; handbooks and manuals; workshop and presentation material; and brochures and other publicity material. Series also includes photographs, audio cassettes and video cassettes.
Sub-series comprises records relating to SCWIST-organized events and projects. Activities documented include the founding of the BC chapter of the Canadian Association for Girls in Science (CAGIS); the organization of educational conferences and workshops (Discover the Possibilities, High School Outreach pilot project, Quantum Leaps in conjunction with Douglas College, Say Yes to Math and Science Careers for Women, Science for Young Canadians, Visiting Scientists Project, Women Do Math conferences, and the Women Inventors Project); the production of professional and educational resource material (the Registry of Skilled Women, BC and Yukon, the video What Do Scientists Do?); and the organization of information and networking events for professionals in the fields of science and technology (Speakers' Bureau, Small Business Women's Workshops, Women in Science panels, XX Evenings at Science World). Records consist of correspondence; reports; grant applications and supporting documentation; presentations; audio recordings; handbooks and manuals; event evaluations; publicity brochures, and contracts.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the organization of the first National Conference on Women in Science and Technology, held in Vancouver BC in May 1983. Activities documented include conference planning, funding, publicity, presentations and evaluations. Records consist of correspondence; reports; grant applications and supporting documentation; publicity brochures, programs and press releases; presentations, audio recordings, transcripts and published conference proceedings; and conference evaluation forms and summaries.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the development and delivery of the Girls in Science program, designed to encourage girls to consider science and technology careers. Girls in Science began in 1984 as a series of week-long summer workshops offered by SCWIST throughout British Columbia for girls aged 9 to 12, featuring a range of hands-on activities. In 1988 the direct management of the workshops passed from SCWIST to the local communities, who organize them on the basis of the SCWIST manual, Imagine the Possibilities. Records consist of correspondence, memoranda and reports; grant applications and supporting documentation; workshop presentations and overheads; teaching activities material; evaluations; handbooks and manuals (including annotated drafts and the first and second editions of Imagine the Possibilities); photographs; publicity brochures; and press clippings.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the development and delivery of the Elementary Science Workshops, a program designed to improve science instruction by elementary school teachers. Sessions for local teachers were held in the community by a Resource Person while the workshops as a whole were overseen by a Project Coordinator, assisted by a SCWIST program committee. Records consist of correspondence; reports; committee meeting minutes and supporting papers; grant applications and supporting documentation; workshop presentation materials; photographs; and publicity brochures.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the development and delivery of the Project Tomorrow program. Project Tomorrow was initiated in 1992 as a series of seminars offered by SCWIST for parents, parent advisory committees and elementary school teachers designed to help them encourage and sustain the interest of girls in science and technology. Records consist of correspondence; reports; committee meeting minutes and supporting papers; grant applications and supporting documentation; presentation materials, transparencies and overheads; schedules and evaluations; contracts; handbooks and manuals; and publicity brochures.
Sub-series comprises records relating to operation of the Work Pathfinder program, designed to provide girls and women with information and resources about science careers through development of web sites and a CD ROM. Records consists of correspondence; reports; grant applications and supporting documentation; contracts; and design planning documents.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the development and delivery of the Ms Infinity program, a series of one-day conferences for young women in grades 9 and 10 in British Columbia and the Yukon to attend hands-on workshops, presentations and panel sessions that provide information about career options for women in science and technology. The program was started in 1990 and continues in existence. Ms Infinity conferences are organized by the local communities while SCWIST provides a manual and video, training for the community liaison person, and expenses and honoraria for workshop leaders. Records consist of correspondence, reports; committee meeting minutes and supporting papers; grant applications and supporting documentation; workshop presentation materials, including overheads and transparencies; manuals and handbooks; and publicity brochures.
Sub-series comprises records relating to the development and delivery of the Female Friendly Science Teaching, begun in 1991 to develop teaching strategies for helping young women feel more at ease with the physical sciences and to promote these strategies, primarily through publications and handbooks. Records consist of correspondence; reports; grant applications and supporting documentation; handbooks and manuals; and evaluation forms.
Series comprises records relating to the Society's interactions with the public in order to communicate its goals, activities and accomplishments. Activities documented include production of the newsletter SCWIST News and publicity brochures; maintenance of Society membership and naming of honorary members; nomination of Society members for external awards and honours; responses to requests for support and funding; and administration of SCWIST scholarships. Records consist of correspondence; reports; award applications and supporting documentation; committee meeting minutes; grant applications and supporting documentation; membership forms and lists; honorary member certificates; newsletters, publicity brochures and artifacts (buttons).
Series consists of informal snapshots of various SCWIST social, administrative, fundraising, and educational activities.
The fonds of the Office of Chancellor consists of records created and received in the course of carrying out the functions of the Chancellor. The activities documented include correspondence on various subjects; participation in university committees and other bodies including the Board of Governors and Senate; and liaison with external bodies, including professional associations and other universities. The types of documents include meeting agenda and minutes, brochures, correspondence, memoranda, publications, reports, and transcripts. The material mainly covers the tenure of the first four Chancellors of SFU, up to 1985. There is a single post-1985 item, a photograph book in series 5 relating to Brandt C. Louie, Chancellor from 2006-2011.
Sub-series consists of records made and received by Dr. Shrum in the course of his activities as Chancellor. Subjects and activities documented include planning and construction of the university, selection of architects (including the lead design firm Erickson Massey Architects), meetings of the Buildings and Site Committee, correspondence with various architects, speaking engagements, fundraising, and correspondence with external agencies. Record types include correspondence, meeting agenda and minutes, memoranda, reports, and transcripts of two interviews (with Clive Cocking and Peter Stursberg). Correspondents whose names appear in file titles are registered as Access Points.
Series consists of records made and received by Dr. Kenneth P. Caple in the course of carrying out the duties of Chancellor. It includes correspondence and rolls of congratula.
Series consists of records made and received by Jack Diamond in the course of carrying out the duties of Chancellor. It includes correspondence and memoranda.
Series consists of records made and received by Dr. Paul T. Coté in the course of carrying out the duties of Chancellor. It includes correspondence and memoranda.
Series consists of publications issued by or relating to the Office of the Chancellor.
File consists of a book released around 2011 of photographs taken by SFU photographers relating to the tenure of Brandt C. Louie from 2006-2011. The book appears to have been prepared by SFU's Creative Services Group around 2011 on the occasion of Louie's completion of his term of office.
Fonds consists of records made or received by the Women's Centre in the course of carrying out its functions and programs. The geographical focus of the activities documented is the Lower Mainland of British Columbia and especially the Simon Fraser University campus in Burnaby. Activities documented include provision of facilities, resources and referral services; meetings of the Women's Centre Collective and the Women's Centre Board; correspondence and liaison with other individuals and groups; Centre funding, budget planning and management of its financial resources; planning and organization of projects, programs and events; and maintenance of library and reference material. Records include logbooks, correspondence, reports, account books and summaries, minutes and meeting support papers, brochures, handbooks, photographs, reference files and audio cassettes.
Series consists of correspondence conducted by the Women's Centre with campus and off-campus individuals and organizations, including university administrators, the Simon Fraser Student Society, the Women's Studies Coordinating Committee, the Vancouver Status of Women, and the Women's Building Society of Vancouver. Activities documented include requests for information; support and participation in events and projects; funding proposals; and liaison with other groups and organizations. Records consist of correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to the funding of the Women's Centre and its management of financial resources. Activities documented include funding proposals and grant applications, budget planning and approval, and review and management of accounts. Records consist of correspondence, proposals, reports, budgets, financial statements, account books and ledgers, and grant applications and supporting documentation.
Series comprises records created by Women's Centre staff to document day-to-day operations, staff activities and messages, and women's use of the Centre's facilities. Records include logbooks (1979-1992) containing daily entries by staff recording work completed, messages, phone calls, proposals, comments and opinions, and occasional correspondence; daily work reports (1984-1986) tabulating the number of phone calls and drop-ins by category; mail logs (1991) registering incoming and outgoing mail; phone logs (1991); and sign-in books (1988-1992) signed by women using the Centre, recording name, date, purpose or other comments relating to the visit.
Series consists of records relating to the evolution of the Women's Centre as an organization. Activities documented include the development of Centre policies, procedures and organizational structure; meetings of the Women's Centre Steering Committee, the Women's Centre Collective and the Women's Centre Board; and participation of the Women's Centre Coordinator in Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS) staff meetings. Records consist of agendas, minutes, correspondence, proposals, reports, and handbooks.
Sub-series consists of the records of the Women's Centre Steering Committee meetings and includes agendas, minutes, proposals, reports and other meeting support papers.
Sub-series consists of the minutes of the Women's Centre Collective meetings and includes agendas, minutes, proposals, reports and other meeting support papers.
Sub-series consists of the records of the Women's Centre Board meetings and includes agendas, minutes, proposals, reports and other meeting support papers.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the development of Women's Centre policies, procedures and organizational structure. Records includes the Women's Centre Handbook, procedures relating to workmen in the Women's Centre, and guidelines for managing the Centre's vertical files and newsletter lists.
Sub-series consists of records arising from the participation of the Women's Centre Coordinator in the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS) monthly staff meetings. The post of Women's Centre Coordinator was created and funded in 1991 as an SFSS staff position, initially reporting to the Administrative Services Committee (1991-2001), then subsequently to the SFSS Executive and SFSS Board of Directors. The Coordinator works with the Women's Centre Collective to oversee the operations, activities, services and programs of the Centre. Records consist of the Coordinator's copies of agendas, minutes, proposals, reports and other meeting support papers.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the long-term and short-term planning programs of the Women's Centre. Activities and topics documented include proposed activities and programming, Centre priorities, mission statement and mandate of the Centre, roles and responsibilities of collective members and staff, infrastructure of the Centre, staff evaluation procedures, promotion and publicity strategy, and liaison with other campus groups. Records include agendas, minutes, proposals, notes, drafts, reports, and flyers.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the 1994 membership collective of the Women's Centre. File consists of a set of 4 x 6 inch cards. Each card contains a photograph of the woman and her personal statement regarding her background and experience, her vision for the Women's Centre, what she hoped to contribute to the Centre, and what she hoped to gain from her participation in the Collective.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the history of the SFSS Women's Centre. Records include drafts, notes, newsletters, and printed articles.
Series comprises records relating to the planning, organization and implementation of Women's Centre projects, programs and events. Activities documented include International Women's Day events, December 6 vigils, and film nights; interventions on campus issues and controversies such as pornography on campus and the development of the Harassment Policy; workshops; participation in conferences; and a survey of Women's Centre users (1981). Records include correspondence; proposals and reports; programs and presentations; notes, drafts and working papers; brochures, posters and other publicity material; press clippings; meeting minutes; survey data and analysis; and photographs.
Subseries consists of records relating to general programming initiatives of the Women's Centre and general information on topics of interest. Records include correspondence, surveys, flyers, pamphlets, news clippings, notes and other documents.
Subseries consists of records relating to particular commemorative or celebratory events concerned with feminist issues. Records include flyers, correspondence, notes, minutes, programs and news clippings.
Sub-series consists of records relating to public education events hosted or attended by the Women's Centre. Records include flyers, correspondence, notes, minutes, programs and news clippings.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of support and discussion groups related to feminist issues. Records include flyers, correspondence, notes, minutes, programs and news clippings.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the Women's Centre's involvement in campus issues, including childcare, student activism, pornography on campus computer systems, sexual harassment, and labour conflicts. Records include correspondence, notes, minutes, drafts, policies, news clippings, posters, and flyers.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the Centre's involvement in feminist issues of a more general nature extending beyond the SFU campus, including the portrayal of women in the media, abortion, homophobia, violence against women, gun control, immigration, sexual harassment, children's rights, and other topics. For a list of organizations included in the correspondence, see "Access points" below. Records include correspondence, notes, minutes, drafts, policies, news clippings, flyers, newsletters, and reports.
Sub-series consists of informal photographs and slide transparencies of Women's Centre social events, parties, retreats, meetings, collective members, and the interior of the Women's Centre.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the promotion of Women's Centre programs and activities, the production of the Women's Centre newsletter and zine, and production of The Peak column "Surfacing." Records include posters, brochures, artwork, newsletters, and news clippings.
Subseries consists of promotional material relating to Women's Centre programs and events, production of the Women's Centre newsletter and the Women's Centre zine and Peak articles including the Peak's "Surfacing" column (1974-1975). Records consist of brochures, posters, artwork, newsletters, drafts and working papers,
Series consists of publications and other documents collected by the Women's Centre and compiled as a women-centred information and library resource. The Women's Centre Library acquires and maintains books, journal subscriptions and vertical files accessible to all visitors to the Centre, while women who pay membership dues have borrowing privileges. Documents include reports, publications, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, papers, presentations, and audio recordings of interviews, talks and presentations.
Series consists of records made or received by the Women's Centre in its capacity as a member of the British Columbia Federation of Women (BCFW). The SFU Women's Centre was an affiliate member of the BCFW in the Lower Mainland Region. As the BCFW disbanded in 1989, it made a donation to the SFU Women's Centre Development Fund of $1600. This money along with other private donations to the Women's Centre is intended to support work which is feminist and activist in nature but which falls outside the scope of the Centre's usual operations. The Women's Centre Development fund is not used for ongoing operating expenses of the Women's Centre. Activities documented in this series include annual BCFW conventions; meetings of the Coordinating Collective, the Lower Mainland Region, and the finance committee; correspondence with various action committees (including the Structure Committee, Rights of Lesbians Committee, Women and Prisons Committee, Women's Heath Committee, Women Against Violence Against Women Committee, and Human Rights Committee); budget planning, grant applications, and accounts management; administration of membership applications, renewals and correspondence; and publications and public relations. Records consist of constitution and policy handbook; correspondence; agendas, minutes and meeting support papers; reports and proposals; financial statements, ledgers and daybooks; membership lists and records; and BCFW newsletters, publications and brochures. Note that some of these records were information copies received by the Women's Centre as an affiliate member of the BCFW; others, however, appear to be the original records of the BCFW itself (e.g. some of the financial and membership records).
Sub-series consists of records relating to BCFW funding and financial management. Activities documented include meetings of the Finance Committee, budget planning and grant applications, and the tracking of accounts and transactions. Records include agendas and minutes; correspondence; budgets, reports and proposals; grant applications and supporting documentation; financial statements, ledgers and daybooks.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the activities of the Lower Mainland Region of the BCFW, the section in which the Women's Centre participated as an affiliate member of the Federation. Activities documented include meetings of representatives from the regional groups and correspondence with BCFW committees and other Regions. Records include agendas, minutes and meeting support papers; correspondence and reports.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration and maintenance of BCFW membership. Groups applied for membership through the Regional section and fees were determined by a formula based on number of women in the affiliate organization. Activities documented include membership applications and correspondence with members concerning renewals and fees. Records include correspondence, member lists, committee lists, and regional membership logs with fee calculations.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the governance and internal organization of the BCFW. Activities documented include the development of BCFW policies, procedures and organizational structure; Annual General Conventions; and meetings of the Coordinating Collective and Convention Planning Committee. Records include constitution and policy handbook; agendas, minutes, and meeting support papers; and correspondence, proposals and reports.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the public communication of BCFW activities and organization. Records include newsletters, publications and brochures.
Series consists of records relating to the Women's Centre's interaction and work with outside organizations, in particular, the B.C. and Yukon Association of Women's Centres and the Women's Studies Student Union at SFU. Records include reports, minutes, newsletters, correspondence and other documents.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the SFU Women's Centre's interaction with other women's centres. See access points for the list of organizations. Records include reports, minutes, correspondence, newsletters, and other documents.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the establishment, organization and operation of the Women's Studies Student Union at SFU. Records include minutes, constitution, correspondence and other documents.
The Archives holds the personal papers of the late Dallas W. Smythe (see fonds F-16), the first chair of SFU's Department of Communication Studies. Thomas H. Guback was a doctoral student of Dallas Smythe at the University of Illinois and maintained a professional relationship with Smythe for many years. Guback recently retired as a professor of communications, media studies, and advertising at the University of Illinois. He also served as a consultant in the area of the motion picture industry, and writes and hosts a television program on the Public Broadcasting System (PBS). The collection consists of correspondence from or about Dallas Smythe, articles written by Dallas Smythe, copies of memorial lectures about Smythe, and photographs of Smythe at work and with his family. The collection consists of seven files.
The fonds consists of records relating to the academic development of the Faculty of Business Administration and its programs, centres and institutes. Activities, topics and events documented include the Dean's correspondence with Business Administration faculty and program directors, the greater university community, student clubs, local and the international business community, and provincial and national organizations; participation on university committees; and planning and delivery of projects, programs, and workshops; student intercollegiate business competitions held at Emory and Queens Universities; liaison with the Faculty's External Advisory Board; the Dean's participation on the board of the Canadian Federation of Deans of Management and Administrative Studies; and establishment of international business programs in Asia and North America. The types of documents include meeting agendas, minutes, and supporting papers; correspondence and reports; annual reports; budgets and financial working papers; contracts; program and instructor evaluations; and publications including program brochures, student handbooks, student resume books, seminar and workshop flyers, newsletters, newspaper clippings, faculty discussion papers, and student MBA project reports. The fonds also includes photographs.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration of the Faculty of Business Administration. It includes the Dean's correspondence with members of the faculty and business programs including the Accounting Program, Real Estate Program, Co-op Education Program, Career Management Program, Undergraduate Program, Day MBA Program, EMBA program, and the Caribou College Program; strategic planning and program curriculum reviews; establishment of the Chevron Endowed Chair; constitution revisions; and reports from the student intercollegiate business competitions held at Emory University and Queens University. Records include correspondence and working papers; meeting agendas, minutes, and reports; publications including "Faculty Notes", a weekly news release containing Faculty news and events; and photographs of the Chevron Endowed Chairs.
Series consists of records relating to the financial operation of the Faculty of Business Administration and includes an external review of the Accounting area; short and long-term budget planning; budget plan applications; operating budget statistics and reports; funding applications for projects; and staff allocation funding. Records include correspondence, budgets, reports, and financial working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the development and administration of the Centre for North American Business Studies at Harbour Centre; the Asia Pacific Business Institute, a joint venture between UBC, SFU and UVic; and the Enterprise Centre. Activities and topics documented include the Dean's correspondence with board members and business partners; proposals and funding applications; development of seminars and workshops; budget planning; staffing requirements; and program evaluations. Also included are records related to the Student Entrepreneur program and Starting Right the First Time program. Records include correspondence, working papers, reports, agendas and minutes, budget reports and financial statements, annual reports, legal contracts, newspaper clippings, publications, and photographs.
Series consists of records relating to the Dean's correspondence with various campus committees and membership in professional associations. Also included are minutes from Faculty of Business Administration staff meetings and liaison with the External Advisory Board. For the complete list of committees and associations, see the sub-series list below. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports and publications.
Series consists of records relating to Dean Stanley Shapiro's tenure as Chairman of the Canadian Federation of Deans of Management and Administrative Studies from 1988 to 1990 and departmental membership in the CFDMAS from 1987 to 1995. Records include correspondence, agendas, minutes, legal contracts, budget and financial working papers, reports and publications.
Series consists of records relating to the development of student exchanges and business research partnerships with international business schools in Hong Kong, India, Malaysia, the United States, and Mexico. Records include correspondence, working papers, agendas, minutes, reports, financial working papers and publications.
Series consists of publications produced by the Faculty of Business Administration. Records include annual scholarly activities reports, graduate student resume books, program and seminar pamphlets and related promotional materials, newsletters, student survival guides, discussion papers written by faculty, and student MBA project reports.
Fonds consists of records created, received and collected by Working Women Unite. Records reflect the activities and functional responsibilities of Working Women Unite and groups associated with them, such as the BCFW and SORWUC. Includes correspondence, minutes, agendas, bulletins, newsletters, financial records, membership lists, reports, convention proceedings, and articles.
Series consists of records relating to Working Women Unite. Includes financial records, correspondence, minutes, conference proceedings, articles, papers and bulletins.
Series consists of records relating to the British Columbia Federation of Women (BCFW), the parent organization of Working Women Unite. Includes newsletters, draft convention proposals, minutes, agendas, constitution, policy handbooks, and proceedings of the 1979 and 1980 conventions.
Series consists of records relating to the Service, Office, and Retail Workers Union of Canada (SORWUC). Activities documented include policy development, fundraising, and conventions. Includes newsletters, bulletins, minutes of meetings, correspondence, copies of collective agreements negotiated by the union (with the Simon Fraser Student Society and the Pooh Corner Daycare), financial records, and convention proceedings.
Fonds consists of records reflecting Robert F. Harrison's contributions to the architecture of Simon Fraser University. Records reflect the architectural competition to design the university, and include plans, construction records, and building specifications. Also includes newspaper clippings, correspondence, reports, information releases, minutes, change orders, test results, inspection reports, notes, tenders, financial records, specifications, addenda, photographs, and architectural drawings.
Series consists of records relating to the Simon Fraser University architectural competition. The contest was held in 1963 to choose the overall design for the new university. Includes newspaper clippings, correspondence, reports, information releases, minutes of meetings with Gordon Shrum (SFU Chancellor), and photographs of the proposed site.
Series consists of architectural drawings and plans for work done at Simon Fraser University by Robert Harrison. Includes plans and drawings for different phases of library construction and plans for other buildings at Simon Fraser University.
Series consists of records relating to the construction of the library and other buildings at Simon Fraser University. Records reflect the different stages of construction such as site excavation, concrete tests, electrical work, and millwork furnishings. Includes correspondence, change orders, test results, inspection reports, notes, correspondence, minutes of job meetings, tenders, and financial records.
Series consists of detailed descriptions of dimensions, materials, and costs for construction of the library and other buildings at SFU. Includes architectural, electrical and mechanical specifications, addenda, and supplementary general conditions.
Fonds consists of records reflecting W. Randle Iredale's contribution to the architecture of Simon Fraser University. Records reflect the three phases of designing and building the Science Complex. Includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, news releases, negatives, contact sheets, slides, 8 x 10 photographs, and architectural drawings.
Fonds consists of Zoltan Kiss's architectural drawings and plans for the Academic Quadrangle and student residences at Simon Fraser University.
Series consists of architectural drawings and plans for the Academic Quadrangle, including cafeterias, lunch rooms, and laboratories; plans for the west concourse; student residences, and the Men's residence.
Fonds consists of records of the Academic Planner for SFU. Fonds includes, correspondence, policies, reference material, and other materials. Materials relate to the formation of University policies, the appointment of University faculty and staff, the dissemination of information regarding SFU through various media outlets, and other functions.
Series consists of correspondence of the Director of Academic Planning. Correspondence includes letters received and copies of letters sent. Correspondents include members of the media, university administrators, and potential University employees and students. Materials relate to the formulation of University policies, the dissemination of information regarding the University, the staffing of the University, and other topics.
Series consists of draft policies for SFU, as well as reference material used to formulate those policies. Policies relate to academic plans, examinations, credit hours and degree requirements, student activity fees, academic calendars, course numbering systems, staffing, academic freedom, admission requirements, and other issues. Reference material consists of reports and other records from other universities regarding their policies, procedures, and circumstances. Series also includes a tabulation of credit hours taught at SFU in the 1967 summer semester.
The fonds of the Department of Archaeology consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the Department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, an external review, faculty case files, memoranda, agenda and minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the establishment of the department and its history. It includes proposals, reports, and a history of the department by Kristine Andersen (1985).
Series consists of correspondence and related materials received and sent by the Chair. It includes correspondence, journals, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of records related to faculty members, including research grant files, and correspondence with Canada Council and the President's Research Grant Committee. Record types include correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of the records of various departmental committees, including the Appointments, Graduate Studies, and Tenure committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, minutes of meetings, and memoranda.
Series consists of the records relating to faculty committees which had departmental representation, including the Committee for Extension Credit and the Curriculum Committee. The series includes correspondence.
Series consists of the records relating to the Sociology / Anthropology Articulation Committee (representing Sociology and Anthropology departments in BC universities and community colleges), and SFU's Senate Committee on Admissions and Standings.
Series consists of records relating to an external review of the Department conducted in 1975. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of undergraduate and graduate course outlines, graduate examinations, and new course proposals.
Series consists of records relating to the Field School conducted by the Department in various locations. It includes correspondence, procedures, and field studies.
The Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology officially opened on December 15, 1979. Series consists of records relating to the Museum. It includes correspondence, reports, and posters.
Series consists of records relating to departmental publications, and includes the student newsletter Debitage and the Archaeological Student Society (A.S.S.) Anti-Calendar.
Series consists of records relating to various professional associations, including the Archaeology Society of B.C., the Canadian Archaeological Association, the American Anthropological Association, and the International Union of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences. It includes correspondence, memoranda, pamphlets, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to various professional conferences and advisory boards, including the Provincial Heritage Advisory Board and the B.C. Heritage Advisory Board Permit Review committee. It includes conference programs, correspondence, memoranda, pamphlets, and reports.
The fonds consists of records arising from the establishment and ongoing activities of the University Librarian and the Library, such as administration, acquisition, cataloguing, loans, automation, information dissemination, and the operation of the Special Collections Division, University Archives and the University Bookstore. Records include correspondence, agendas and minutes, reports, policies, reviews, statistics, budgets and financial working papers, newsletters, student library handbooks, and publications.
Series consists of records related to the activities of the University Librarian and includes correspondence with members of the university community, other universities and external organizations; reports including Library reviews; building renovations; development of Library policies and patron regulations; management planning; 10-year projections for the Library; annual reports; and student and faculty user surveys. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports, statistics, and policies.
Series consists of records related to the daily administration of the University Library including organizational charts and identification of Library objectives; formulation of policies and procedures; management of staff and personnel issues including salaries, job descriptions, and grievances; monthly departmental statistics and reports; thesis preparation and binding; funding for staff research and bibliographic projects; implementation of fire and emergency procedures; budget planning and financial working papers; and management of the Audio Visual Centre. Records include correspondence and working papers, statistics, reports, budgets and newspaper clippings.
Series consists of records related to the activities of the Collections Division within the University Library and includes correspondence with the university community and book vendors; collection policies and analysis; monthly reports and statistics; literature guides; progress updates on the Library's early Canadian journals project and the RCMP collection; and grant applications for project funding from the Donner Foundation, Canada Library Council, Vancouver Foundation, and Boag Foundation. Records include correspondence, working papers and invoices, reports, statistics, grant applications, and annual reports.
Series consists of records related to the activities of the Processing Division of the University Library and includes correspondence with the university community, other university libraries, and professional associations; staff reference letters; faculty book processing requests; college book processing procedures; and budget planning and operating expenses for the division. Records include correspondence and working papers, minutes, statistics and financial statements.
Series consists of records related to the establishment of the Library collection and includes the Library's original book accession lists; Acquisitions Division correspondence with the university community and book processing and publishing companies; annual reports for the division; and work of the Serials Project Team. Records include correspondence, reports, statistics, and invoices.
Series consists of records relating to the activities of the Cataloguing Division at the University Library and includes correspondence with the university community; division organizational charts; monthly division activity reports, cataloguing statistics, and annual reports; division budget planning; and procedures for carrying out shared cataloguing and processing for regional colleges in British Columbia. Records include correspondence, reports, statistics, budgets and financial working papers.
Series consists of records related to the activities of the Loans Division of the University Library and includes correspondence with the university community; policy development on loan procedures including on-line and external; annual reports, monthly Division activity reports, and turnstile statistics; Division meeting minutes; Division budget planning and financial working documents; reports including information on staff activities, workload, projects, the 24 hour Library opening experiment, and on the SHARE project with Okanagan College in Kelowna; interlibrary loans procedures between SFU and the University of British Columbia, progress reports and statistics; and participation in the B.C. Post Secondary Interlibrary Loan Network. Records include correspondence, minutes, reports, questionnaires, statistics, policies, and financial working papers.
Series consists of records related to the Information Systems Division of the University Library and includes correspondence between Library staff and EPIC, GEAC, and BRS System database vendors; vendor proposals and purchase agreements; automation reports and database planning records; monthly division activity reports; GEAC project planning, training, and implementation; and minutes of the GEAC Acquisition Planning Committee, RFP Steering Committee, Name and Address System Steering Committee, and the British Columbia Library Network. Records include correspondence and working papers, minutes, reports and statistics, project proposals and updates, and contracts, agreements, and invoices.
Series consists of records relating to the University Librarian's correspondence with, and participation on, various university and non-university committees. For the complete list of committees, see the sub-series list below. Records include correspondence and working papers, agendas and minutes, reports, financial papers and staff photographs.
Series consists of publications produced by the University Library and include lists of serials held by the Library, Library handbooks and annual reports, brochures, newsletters and bulletins, faculty guides, subject bibliographies, publishing guidelines for theses and extended essays and projects, SFU Friends of the Library event publications, and Library survey result reports.
Series consists of records related to the University Bookstore and includes correspondence of the University Librarian with the Bookstore manager, the university community regarding the Bookstore, and vendors; Bookstore policies and operating procedures; year end reports; a Bookstore research study; operating budget and financial statements; plans for renovations to the Bookstore; the report of the Bookstore Review Committee and responses to it; and records of a joint grievance committee hearing. Records include correspondence, reports, budget and financial working papers, and newsletters.
Records include correspondence with partner universities, meeting minutes, reports, statistics, and records of the TRIUL Task Force on Sound Recordings.
The fonds consists of records arising from the activities of the University Archives. Fonds includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, classification and description records, Archives and Records Management Advisory Committee records, and materials arising from special projects and conferences.
Series consists of records arising from the work of the University Archivist. Series includes correspondence, memoranda, and monthly reports.
Subseries consists of correspondence and memoranda of the University Archivist. Subseries includes letters and memoranda received, and copies of letters and memoranda sent. Correspondents include the University President, other University officers, external organizations and individuals, and members of the archival community. Subseries also includes some accompanying reports.
Subseries consists of reports compiled by the University Archivist. Reports include information summarizing the activities of the University Archives. Most reports are monthly. The individuals to whom the reports are directed change according to the place of the Archives within the organizational structure of the university. For instance, when the Archives was a function of the University Library, all reports were directed to the University Librarian.
Series consists of records arising from the general administration of the University Archives.
Sub-series consists of records arising from general meetings of Archives staff members. Sub-series includes agendas and draft minutes. Materials relate to staff activities, Archives policy formulation, and other matters.
Subseries consists of records of the Advisory committee for archives and records management. Subseries includes meeting agendas and minutes, memoranda, reports, and other materials. Materials relate to archival policies, procedures, and practices; records management policies; Freedom of Information/Protection of Privacy issues; and other matters.
When the University Archives was established, a policy was formulated for collecting the records of local municipalities including Burnaby, Coquitlam, Port Coquitlam, Maple Ridge, and Mission. In 1993, the decision was made to return these materials to their respective municipalities. Series consists of records arising from the University Archives original accessions and subsequent deaccessions of various municipal records. Series includes correspondence, memoranda, notes, copies of agreements, research papers, articles, lists, and inventories.
Early records classification and description practices at the University Archives resulted in the establishment of a record group system of arrangement for university records, and a manuscript group system for records from private sources. This system is no longer in place, and the Archives is currently undertaking the redescription of its holdings. Series consists of records arising from the development of records classification schemes and descriptive practices at the University Archives. Series includes drafts and revised lists of records groups, and copies of early descriptions of records held at the University Archives.
Series consists of records arising from reference activities of the University Archives. Series includes researcher log books.
Series consists of records arising from special projects which the Archives completed, and records from workshops and conferences in which Archives staff participated. Series includes records of an oral history conference held at SFU (including programmes and papers), records from a records management workshop, and records of an Archives survey of university committees (including lists of committees and committee members).
Series consists of negatives and contact sheets of Archives faculty and staff, University functions (Convocation guest speakers) and construction. Series includes Fine and Performing Arts posters, Simon Fraser Student Society events, students and faculty.
Series consists of records dealing with the establishment of the University Archives, the evolution of policies and procedures, and the history of the position of University Archivist. Includes correspondence, reports and other documents.
Fonds consists of records arising from the activities of the Analytical Studies office. Fonds includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, meeting agendas and minutes, statistical studies, publications, and other materials.
Series consists of the Director's correspondence with other university departments and some external (non-SFU) organizations. While most of the correspondence relates to the functions of the Office of Analytical Studies, some of the correspondence was created by John Chase in his earlier roles as Academic Planner and chair of the Senate Committee on Undergraduate Studies. Activities, events and topics documented include statistical data in response to requests from departments and administrators; course development; and allocation of university space. Records include correspondence, proposals, reports, and statistics on enrollment, grades, teaching loads. salaries, instructional activity, student/faculty ratios and other academic issues.
Series consists of records arising from research in the area of post secondary school enrollment. Series includes statistics and committee records.
Subseries consists of records of the B.C. Post Secondary Education Enrollment Forecasting Committee. Subseries includes correspondence, memoranda, and meeting agendas and minutes.
Subseries consists of SFU enrollment statistics, by semester. Subseries also includes some memoranda.
Series consists of various statistical studies and surveys created by the Analytical Studies office, as well as studies prepared by various other offices before the establishment of the Analytical Studies office. Series includes faculty salary surveys; SFU enrollment predictions; enrollment statistics of high school and regional colleges; statistics regarding operating costs, sabbatical leaves, tuition fees; alumni employment surveys; grade point average statistics; and other studies.
Series consists of publications produced by the Analytical Studies office. Series includes publications regarding enrollment and attrition, grading, instructional activities, faculty, University facilities, and other matters. Series also includes various editions of the Fact Book published by the office to answer commonly asked questions about SFU activities and conditions.
Fonds consists of records arising from the activities of the SFU Development Office and its predecessors, records of the SFU Alumni Association, and records from the Three Universities Capital Fund. Fonds includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, promotional materials, address lists, lists of donations, newsletters, photographs, and other materials.
Series consists of records arising from the activities of the Director of Development. Series includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, manuals, promotional literature, photographs, and other materials.
Subseries consists of correspondence of the Director of Development. Subseries includes copies of outgoing correspondence and memoranda. Correspondents include university officials, donors, charitable foundations, and other organizations.
Subseries consists of reports, manuals, reviews, promotional literature, and other materials of the Director of Development. Subseries also includes some correspondence and memoranda. Materials relate to fund raising, foundations, the performance of the Development Office, and other matters.
Series consists of records arising from the administration of ongoing fund raising activities of the Development office, including annual fund drives. Series includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, promotional literature, and other materials.
Series consists of records arising from the administration of the Three Universities Capital Fund campaign. Series includes correspondence, address lists, lists of donations and refusals, promotional material, and other items.
Series consists of records produced by the SFU Alumni Relations Office, in support of the Alumni Association. Series includes the association constitution, minutes, correspondence and memoranda, brochures and other promotional material, and copies of alumni newsletters entitled The Bridge, Afterthoughts, the Alumni Journal, and AQ magazine.
The fonds consists of records relating to the life of W.A.C. Bennett. Documented are his personal life, business ventures, community service, club affiliations, and political activities, including his terms as Member of the Legislative Assembly for South Okanagan, and as Premier of British Columbia. Personal records consist of early correspondence and household records, as well as material which documents W.A.C. Bennett's association with freemasonry and his fundraising activities with organizations such as the Salvation Army. Business records consist of material relating to Bennett Hardware, Bennett’s Stores, and Calona Wines. Political records refer to Bennett's tenure as a Member of the Legislative Assembly for South Okanagan, as Premier and as leader of the Opposition. Also relevant are records referring to the passage of a number of Municipal Acts and Bennett’s relationship with Federal politics. Records include correspondence, advertisements, minutes, annual reports, telegrams, itineraries, schedules, financial statistics, financial statements, petitions, questionnaires, resolutions, reports, speeches, press releases, proposals, maps, plans, charts, file notes, memoranda, newspaper clippings, scrap books, ephemera, photographs, audio recordings, film reels, and video cassettes.
Series consists of miscellaneous personal items concerning the household, church and investments. Included are correspondence, invoices, reports, bank account books, certificates, a bill of sale, an indenture, insurance policies, assessment forms, pamphlets, programs, a diary and lists.
Series consists of correspondence with Lodge members of St. George's Lodge in Kelowna, the Gizeh Temple in Vancouver, and the Okanagan Lodge of Perfection in Vernon. Included are lists, receipts, financial statements, programs, invitations, pamphlets, constitution, bylaws, statutes and regulations.
Series consists of records documenting the sale of these Alberta businesses. Included are contracts, a financial statement and an inventory list.
Series consists of records relating to Bennett Hardware and its successor Bennett's Stores. Included are correspondence, a bill of sales, lists, invoices, insurance policies, balance sheets, a financial statement, pamphlets, a notebook, orders, advertisements, minutes, annual reports, bonds, newsletters and a warrant.
Series consists of records relating to Domestic Wines, and its successor Calona Wines. Included are correspondence, newspaper clippings, reports, shipping orders, invoices, notes, a notebook, minutes and annual reports.
Series consists of records relating to W.A.C. Bennett's involvement with the Kelowna Board of Trade, his term on the Executive Council, and as president from 1937-1939. Included are correspondence, minutes, lists, a financial statement and a budget.
Series consists of records relating to W.A.C. Bennett's campaign for the January 23, 1935 election. Included are correspondence, an invoice, forms and an annotated printed list of shareholders.
Series consists of records relating to W.A.C. Bennett's membership in the Gyro Club. Included are correspondence, a speech, financial statements, notes, invoices, a membership directory, newsletters and pamphlets.
Series consists of records compiled by W.A.C. Bennett as an active member of the federal Progressive Conservative Party. Activities documented are election campaigns and the 1948 Yale by-election for which W.A.C. Bennett was a candidate. Included are lists, statements, notices, newspaper clippings, 1948 poll statements, a map, minutes, memoranda, newsletters, pamphlets, reports, manuals, and correspondence addressed to W.A.C. Bennett as secretary-treasurer of the Yale Conservative Association.
Series consists of records relating to Bennett's association with the B.C. Progressive Conservative Association and his first successful election campaign in 1941. Included are correspondence, file notes, lists, statements, receipts, a certificate, ballots, minutes, resolutions, memoranda, proposals, pamphlets and transcripts.
Series consists of records relating to W.A.C. Bennett's fundraising activities for the Red Shield Home Front Appeal. Included are correspondence, pamphlets, newsletters and a financial statement.
Series consists of papers generated by W.A.C. Bennett as president of the Kelowna Branch of the Red Cross Society. Included are correspondence, minutes, lists, a pamphlet and a speech.
Series consists of records relating to the Social Credit League. Records document early ideology, election campaigns, party developments in the 1970s, the 1973 leadership campaign and the conventions of 1975 and 1976. Included are pamphlets, poems, mimeographed statements, scripts, calendars, programs, a survey, posters, correspondence, invoices, a receipt book, speeches, lists, newspaper clippings, a folder, buttons, a portfolio, press releases, minutes, newsletters, cartoons, statements and resolutions.
Series consists of Bennett's alphabetical files generated after he left the Premier's Office on September 13, 1972. Included are correspondence, invitations, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, minutes and a statement. Also included are Social Credit Records consisting of ephemera, a memorandum, correspondence, newspaper clippings, a report, campaign thank you letters and a transcript.
Series consists of Bennett's subject files generated after he left the Premier's Office. Activities documented include Bennett's role as Leader of the Opposition from 1972-1973, his activities as a prominent Social Credit Party member and his family's life. Included are post-election and general correspondence, newspaper clippings, reports, cartoons, speeches, transcripts, file notes, press releases, printed material, memoranda, itineraries, statements, receipts, programs, annual reports, notes, pamphlets, announcements, invitations, a map, newsletters, an insurance policy, balance sheets, receipts, a sign and petitions. Files are arranged alphabetically for each year.
Series consists of records relating to Bennett's funeral arrangements, funeral service, memorial service and memorial fund. Included are lists, programs, a press release, letters, notes, newspaper clippings, a folder and pamphlets.
Series consists of ephemera relating to a variety of personal and official activities. Included are identification cards, a wallet, a ration coupon book, a Bible, greeting cards, publications, pamphlets, a name plate, programs, invitations, menus, place mats, posters, an agreement, a transparency and letter head.
Series consists of correspondence regarding election campaigns, the attempted formation of the Coalition Party, the period after W.A.C. Bennett resigned as an M.L.A. to run as the representative for the federal riding of Yale, May 13, 1948 to June 15, 1949, W.A.C. Bennett's term as an independent Member and the development of the Social Credit League. Included are correspondence with non-constituent residents of B.C., with federal M.P.'s, with non-departmental provincial officers such as the Provincial Secretary, the Lieutenant Governor and the Leader of the Opposition, with federal and provincial Progressive Conservative Party members, and correspondence designated for legislative sessions.
Series consists of election records. Included are nomination papers and poll statements.
Series consists of W.A.C. Bennett's correspondence with constituents in Ellison, Glenmore, Kelowna, Naramata, Okanagan Centre, Okanagan Mission, Peachland, Rutland, Summerland, Trepanier, Westbank and Winfield, correspondence with local Boards of Trade, with the Kelowna Masonic Lodge and with the Okanagan Valley Health Unit. Documented are community issues, the request and concerns of individuals (such as pension and welfare difficulties) and political concerns. There is a gap from May 13, 1948 to June 14, 1949 when W.A.C. Bennett was not the M.L.A. for South Okanagan.
Series consists of W.A.C. Bennett's correspondence with the provincial departments of Agriculture, the Attorney-General, Education, Finance, Health and Welfare, Labour, Lands and Forests, Mines, Municipal Affairs, Public Works, Trade and Industry, and with the Premier's Office. Included is some South Okanagan constituent correspondence. There is a gap from May 13, 1948 to June 14, 1949 when W.A.C. Bennett was not the M.L.A. for South Okanagan.
Series consists of Bennett's subject files concerning irrigation, the Japanese deportations, the Kelowna Memorial Committee, the Kelowna Regulated Area, Okanagan Lake flooding of 1942 and Westbank Orchards (1945-1946). Included are correspondence, minutes, resolutions, handwritten notes, reports, pamphlets, charts, lists and invoices.
Series consists of records compiled by W.A.C. Bennett as a member of the Transportation Committee of the B.C. Fruit Growers' Association. Included are mimeographed minutes, reports, circular letters (carbon copies), a few original letters and printed resolutions.
Series consists of records compiled by W.A.C. Bennett as a member of the Post-War Rehabilitation Council, a provincial planning body set up to make recommendations on anticipated post-war developmental problems. Included are correspondence, minutes, itineraries, resolutions, summaries, briefs; reports of the Council, and ephemera.
Series consists of records relating to the Dominion-Provincial Fisheries Conference held in Jasper, Alberta. Included are correspondence and the conference minutes.
Series consist of ephemera and miscellaneous papers selected by W.A.C. Bennett during his term as M.L.A. Included are posters, pamphlets, memoranda, statements, annual reports, transcripts, pamphlets, press releases, miscellaneous minutes, statistics, proposals, briefs, resolutions, mimeographed letters and newsletters.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened in 1952. Included are correspondence with the Social Credit constituency associations and elected Social Credit and C.C.F. Members (years are cumulated), file notes, statistics, financial statements and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened in 1953. Included are correspondence with Members elected in 1953 (years are cumulated), other correspondence, memoranda, a budget, an annual report and income statements.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1954. The records reflect topics such as the B.C. Power Commission, Federal Departments, Finance, International Joint Commission, Oil Pipeline and the P.G.E. Railway. Included are correspondence, financial statements, annual reports, statistics, charts, and press releases.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1955. The records reflect topics such as Attorney General, B.C. Electric, B.C. Power Commission, Highways, Oil Pipeline and P.G.E. Railway. Included are correspondence, statistics, reports, balance sheets, memoranda and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1956. The records reflect correspondence with Members elected in 1956 (years are cumulated), B.C. Electric, B.C. Power Commission, Federal Departments, Finance, P.G.E. Railway and Power Development. Included are correspondence, documents, reports, minutes, statistics and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1957. The records reflect topics such as the B.C. Power Commission, P.G.E. Railway and Power Development. Included are correspondence, financial statistics, reports, minutes, maps and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1958. Included are correspondence, minutes, a list and budgets.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1959. The records reflect topics such as the Federal Departments, Federal-Provincial Conferences, Canada's Centenary, Peace River, P.G.E. Railway and Power Development. Included are correspondence, financial statistics, reports, resolutions, statements and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1960. The records reflect topics such as the Oil Pipeline, P.G.E. Railway, Pacific Northern Railway and Power Development. Included are correspondence with members elected in 1960 (years are cumulated), other correspondence, reports, press releases, minutes, memoranda and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1961. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Electric, B.C. Energy Board, B.C. Power Commission, Peace River, P.G.E. Railway and Power Development. Included are correspondence, financial statistics, minutes, reports, file notes and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1962. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Electric, B.C. Hydro, B.C. Power Commission, Finance, Oil Pipeline and Power Development. Included are correspondence, financial statistics, lists, statements, memoranda, resolutions, bonds and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1963. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, Federal Departments, Federal-Provincial Conferences, Finance, P.G.E. Railway, Power Development, Columbia River, Premiers' Conference and Social Credit. Included are correspondence with members elected in 1963 (years are cumulated), other correspondence, telegrams, reports, speeches, minutes, statements and notes.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1964. The records reflect topics such as the Attorney-General, B.C. Hydro, Bank of B.C., Federal-Provincial Conferences, Finance, Power Development, Columbia River and B.C. Medical Plan. Included are correspondence, reports, file notes, minutes, statements, memoranda and agreements.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1965. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, B.C. Energy Board, Federal Departments, Finance, Mines, Oil Pipeline, P.G.E. Railway, Power Development and B.C. Medical Plan. Included are correspondence, charts, financial statistics, speeches, reports, financial statements, annual reports, minutes and briefs.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1966. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, Bank of B.C., Finance, Speaker and Clerk, Mines, Oil Pipeline and P.G.E. Railway. Included are correspondence with Members elected in 1966 (years are cumulated), other correspondence, financial statistics, reports, statements and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1967. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, Bank of B.C., Roberts Bank, Federal-Provincial Conferences and Finance. Included are correspondence, financial statistics and minutes.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1968. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, Federal Departments, Federal-Provincial Conferences, Finance, Oil Pipeline, P.G.E. Railway, B.C. Medical Plan and Premiers' Conference. Included are correspondence, financial statements, reports and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1969. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, Education, Federal Departments, Federal-Provincial Conferences, Finance, Industrial Development, B.C. Medical Plan and Premiers' Conference. Included are correspondence with Members elected in 1969, other correspondence, reports, press releases, financial statistics and financial statements.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1970. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, Finance, Speaker, Premiers' Conference and Social Credit. Included are correspondence, financial statistics, file notes, lists, balance sheets, agendas and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1971. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, B.C. Energy Board, C.B.C., Federal Departments, Federal-Provincial Conferences, Finance, Oil Pipeline and Premiers' Conference. Included are correspondence, file notes, schedules, memoranda, reports and speeches.
Series consists of the official files of the Premier's Office opened, or continued, in 1972. The records reflect topics such as B.C. Hydro, Elections, Federal-Provincial Conferences, Finance, Health Services, Highways, Premier's Office, B.C. Medical Plan and Premiers' Conference. Included are correspondence, a petition, financial statistics and speeches. Photocopied Premier's Office file lists are included at the end of this series.
Records consists of records relating to Federal-Provincial Conferences. Included are summaries of proceedings, working papers, memoranda, correspondence, reports and draft agreements.
Series consists of subject files compiled by W.A.C. Bennett on various topics. Also included are reports and reference materials related to hydroelectric power in the Peace River and Columbia River regions. Included are charts, correspondence, briefs, financial statistics, estimates, budgets, press releases, reports, financial statistics, minutes, a contract (draft), nomination receipts, policy statements, a bond, payroll forms, expense vouchers, a lease and Statements of Votes.
Series consists of miscellaneous dated records relating to a range of subjects. Included are correspondence, resolutions, reports, a seating plan, financial statistics, a radio script and radio transcripts, briefs, minutes, itineraries, press releases, plans, statements, proposals, programs, a schedule, notes and an Order-in-Council (copy).
Series consists of miscellaneous undated records relating to a range of subjects. Included are statements, lists, financial statistics, letters, statements, notes, itineraries and poems.
Series consists of miscellaneous telegrams. Included are congratulatory messages which emanated from federal leaders, royalty, family and many others, and telegrams concerning strikes, potential libel charges and departmental decision-making.
Series consists of miscellaneous speech texts.
Series consists of records of the Premier's Office relating to the passage of various Municipal Acts. Included are copies of bills, notes on second reading, copies of Acts, draft amendments, and other records.
Series consists of audio recordings presented to or regarding W.A.C. Bennett. Items were produced primarily by radio stations, although some were created by private citizens. The series focuses on a variety of subject matters regarding Bennett. The majority of the reels document tributes and dinners which were given in honour of the Premier. Several of the reels also document interviews with Bennett as well as many radio commentaries on his performance as Premier. Finally, a significant number of reels document political functions and gatherings which Bennett attended. These include the Ottawa Conference on the Constitution, a Social Credit leadership convention, and the provincial Social Credit convention of 1963.
Series consists of moving image recordings presented to or regarding W.A.C. Bennett. Series includes film reels and video cassettes created by public and private producers. Materials relate to activities and projects of the British Columbia government, and to the life of W.A.C. Bennett. Included are recordings of public ceremonies, interviews with Bennett, and biographical sketches of Bennett. Items within the series vary in quality, with some recordings having no sound components. Some recordings are composed of out-takes which were spliced together. Reference cassettes (U-Matic format) were produced to provide access to eleven of the items originally on film. Other items are in VHS cassette format originally or have had individual VHS cassette copies made of them. U-Matic and VHS cassettes were digitally copied to uncompressed .mov format. Three items are available on film only, including a film produced by the National Film Board, newsreel footage produced by M.G.M studios, and a film produced by the Mining Association of B.C. which was presented to W.A.C. Bennett, but is not directly related to Bennett himself.
Item is a 30-minute news magazine profile of W.A.C. Bennett produced for CBC.
Item is a Pacific Prime Time and Hourglass Forum interview between Jack Wasserman and W.A.C. Bennett. Aired on CBC News.
Item is an interview by Alan Fotheringham with W.A.C. Bennett, produced by CKVU for the program Vancouver. Running time: 22 minutes.
Films in order of appearance: 1. Martin/Bennett 2. Kelowna Bridge 3. Queen of Prince Rupert 4. North Trip 5. Day with Premier 6. Bennett as Freeman 7. Keenleyside Dam 8. Bennett Dam 9. Out-take reel #1 10. Out-take reel #2 11. Spirit of '71
Series consists of photographs produced throughout W.A.C. Bennett's personal and political life, including personal and family photographs, photographs of Bennett and other political figures during Bennett's term as Premier of British Columbia, and photographs of British Columbia Social Credit Party activities. Series includes photographs, negatives, slides, and contact sheets.
Subseries consists of portraits of W.A.C. Bennett, promotional photographs of Bennett and others, and photographs of Bennett family and friends. Portraits include photographs of W.A.C. Bennett at various ages, and a photo of Bennett in Freemason regalia. Promotional photographs include photos of Bennett and others at speeches and rallies, as well as posed photographs at various locations, such as boats, railroad tracks, airports and other sites. Promotional photographs also include a photo of Bennett posing for a painted portrait for Time magazine. Photographs of the Bennett family and friends include family portraits; early photos of Bennett's wife May; photographs of birthday, wedding, and Christmas celebrations of friends and family; and a class photo from Hampton Consolidated School in New Brunswick, which includes W.A.C. Bennett as a pupil.
Subseries consists of photographs arising from Bennett's activities as Premier of British Columbia. Series includes photographs and negatives. Materials relate to sessions of the British Columbia legislature and other governmental meetings, official ceremonies of the government, government development projects, and protests against government policies.
Sub-subseries consists of photographs arising from activities of the British Columbia Legislative Assembly, such as meetings, the opening of legislative sessions, and other activities. Subseries includes photographs of Members of the British Columbia Legislative Assembly, seated in the Assembly, engaged in committee work and other activities, as well as individual portraits of various political figures. Subseries also contains photographs from a trade meeting and a Premiers' conference. Photographs of MLA activities include a photo of the Canadian Confederation Centennial Committee of British Columbia, as well as photos of MLA's at various events. Trade meeting photographs include Bennett and individuals such as representatives from the Council of the Forest Industries of British Columbia and from the Timber Trade Federation of the United Kingdom. Premiers' conference photographs include Bennett and other provincial delegates at an unidentified location.
Sub-subseries consists of photographs arising from Bennett's ceremonial activities as Premier, such as official openings and dedications, official visits and tours, and government social gatherings. Photos of official visits and tours relate to Bennett's trips to Europe, Hong Kong, Japan, and locations in Canada. Photos of opening ceremonies relate to the opening of the Pacific Great Eastern Railway, the Arrow Dam, the COMINCO research centre, the Fraser Wharves, the Interprovincial Steel and Pipe Co. Ltd. plant, the Malahat Highway, the Nine Mile Canyon Bridge, and other projects. Photos of government social gatherings relate to the Pacific Coast Curling Association dinner, B.C. Sports Hall of Fame presentations, and other events.
Sub-subseries consists of photographs arising from various construction projects and other undertakings of the British Columbia government. Materials relate to the Okanagan Lake Bridge, the Trail Bridge, the Port Mann Bridge, the Deas Island Tunnel, the Castlegar pulp mill, the British Columbia Vocational School, the Peace River project, various B.C. Power Commission projects, brush cutting activities in various areas of B.C., and other projects.
Sub-subseries consists of photographs arising from protests held against various government policies. Sub-subseries includes photographs and contact sheets. Materials relate to a protest held by carpenters and ironworkers, and a protest by farmers against Bill 42. Photographs of the carpenters' and ironworkers' protest include a photograph of the Surrey NDP Service Centre, and photographs of protesters at a bus depot. Photographs of the farmers' protest show farmers protesting outside the Legislature in Victoria, and Bennett addressing some protesters in the crowd.
Subseries consists of photographs arising from activities of the British Columbia Social Credit Party. Subseries includes photographs, negatives, and contact sheets. Materials relate to Social Credit elections, conventions, rallies, meetings, election night gatherings; and the retirement of W.A.C. Bennett. Election photographs include photos of an election parade and rally for the 1968 Social Credit candidate for North Vancouver. Subseries also includes a scrapbook compiled by the Primrose League to honour W.A.C. Bennett in his retirement. Scrapbook contains photographs of various Social Credit figures, as well as letters thanking Bennett for his years of service to British Columbia.
Fonds is comprised of research material gathered by David Mitchell for his book, W.A.C. Bennett and the Rise of British Columbia and records generated in the process of completing work on the book. The research material concentrates on Bennett's life as a political figure, the rise of the Social Credit Party, and political issues dealt with by the Bennett government. It includes a mix of interviews with Bennett and other important political figures of his era, articles, clippings, government documents, Social Credit Party papers, copies of Bennett's personal papers, Mitchell's notes and rough drafts, academic papers, graphic material, and correspondence.
Series consists of sources and notes for each chapter. Materials include transcribed interviews, clippings, photocopied articles, government documents, and materials such as correspondence copied from W.A.C. Bennett's personal papers.
Series consists of materials relating to W.A.C. Bennett's family background and to the development of the Social Credit Party in B.C. Includes transcribed interviews with family members, copied documents such as death certificates, copies of Social Credit Party papers, copies of Bennett's speeches, interviews with Bennett, and research correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to W.A.C. Bennett's political contemporaries. Includes transcribed interviews, newspaper and magazine articles and correspondence. Some interview transcripts are incomplete, and some contain Mitchell's annotations.
Series consists of records relating to issues dealt with by the Bennett government and the workings of the Social Credit Party. Includes interview transcripts, copies of speeches, correspondence, newspaper and magazine articles, reports, papers, annual reports and Mitchell's notes.
Series consists of published and unpublished reference articles. Includes newspaper clippings, journal articles and academic papers.
Series consists of records relating to biographies of W.A.C. Bennett and his family. Includes a family history written by Bennett's sister Cora (Bennett) Macaulay, chapter outlines for Mitchell's book, an unpublished draft biography by Bennett's daughter, Anita Tozer, and reviews of other published biographies.
Series consists of graphic material gathered by David Mitchell for his book. Includes photographs, magazine and newspaper articles, correspondence regarding photograph orders and permissions, and a copy of the British Columbia Centennial '71 Committee's Premiers Since Confederation which includes 20 5x7 photographs of the provinces' premiers.
Fonds consists of the official records of the Independent Publishers Association and its 1976 successor, the Association of Canadian Publishers. The fonds documents the 1971 founding and the first ten years of operation of the ACP and its activities to strengthen and expand the Canadian-owned publishing industry through government action, co-operation between publishing houses and liaison with other associations. The records contain substantial information and analysis of the English language Canadian publishing industry during this period and of its specialized sectors such as children's book, educational, scholarly, music and paperback publishing. They document the founding and operation of ACP affiliates: the Literary Press Group, Association of Book Publishers of BC and the Atlantic and Alberta Publishers Associations. The records reveal the concerns of these regional and specialized groups and of the industry as a whole and detail the remedial strategies formulated for problems of warehousing and distribution, censorship, production costs, promotion, foreign sales and foreign ownership. The ACP was a sustaining member of the Book and Periodical Development Council and the Canadian Copyright Institute and amassed minutes and papers from these organizations. The collection reflects the cultural and economic nationalism that emerged in Canada during the 1970's. It offers significant information about federal and provincial government policies, initiatives and funding programs in aid of book publishing and on related issues such as copyright, Canadian learning materials development and the book tariff. Substantial records have been maintained on the Canada Council and its Book Purchase Program, the Ontario Arts Council, and the federal ministries of Secretary of State and Industry, Trade and Commerce. An extensive collection of briefs to the 1971 Ontario Royal Commission on Book Publishing is also included. The records document Canadian publishers' participation in foreign book fairs and the Montreal Book Fair. Detailed records have been maintained on the proceedings of ACP publishing policy conferences and publishers' professional development seminars. Considerable documentation exists about the interaction between the ACP and associations and individuals representing libraries, educational institutions, booksellers and writers. Significant correspondents with ACP staff and executive members include Dave Arnason, Beth Appeldoorn, Katherine Benzekri, Bill Bissett, Sally Bryers, Fred Cogswell, William Darnell, Jane Dobell, Robin Farr, Hugh Faulkner, W.E.P. Fleck, Nancy Fleming, Graeme Gibson, Shirley Gibson, Alastair Gillespie, Peter Grant, David Hancock, Ralph Hodgson, Jack Horner, Campbell Hughes, Paul Irwin, Don Jamieson, Luc Jutras, Naim Kattan, Susan Katz, Peter Kidd, Frank Keyes, Sheila Kieran, Georges Laberge, Patricia Lagace, John LeBel, Jack McClelland, David MacDonald, Roy MacSkimming, John Main, Gladys Neale, Jacqueline Nestman-Hushion, Gordon Pallant, J.Z. Leon Patenaude, Ellen Powers, Eva Radford, Bernie Rath, Angela Rebeiro, Ed Roberts, Toivo Roht, Dan Rosborough, Clyde Rose, Karl Seigler, Roy Sharpe, Alan Shute, Annabel Slaight, David Spence, Steve Stevanovic, Jack Stoddart, Anthony Toth, Linda Turnbull, Glen Whitmer and Randall Ware. Included are the constitution, bylaws, letters patent, correspondence, reports, briefs, speeches and transcripts, budgets, financial statements, newsletters, brochures, catalogues, articles, clippings, press releases, minutes, and photographs.
Series consists of copies of the constitution, bylaws and letters patent of the IPA and ACP, and correspondence, memos and notes from executive members and staff concerning constitutional revision. The series is arranged chronologically.
Series consists of agendas, minutes and papers of the Executive Committee of the IPA and the Executive Council of the ACP. Included are committee and project reports to Council, copies of correspondence, memoranda, financial statements and budgets circulated to council members or considered at council meetings. The series is arranged chronologically.
Series consists of records relating to IPA and ACP Annual General Meetings and Policy Conferences. Included are agendas, minutes, annual reports from committees, budgets, financial statements, notices, minutes of special general meetings, correspondence, guest lists, memoranda, draft agendas, transcripts, brochures, and membership lists. The series is arranged chronologically.
Series consists of records relating to 24 ACP committees. The committees were formed to deal with different aspects of ACP initiatives and the publishing trade. The Children's Book Publishers, Educational Publishing and Production committees prepared special reports and amassed research information. The IPA became a sustaining member of the Canadian Copyright Institute and their collection of minutes and papers from this organization are found with the Copyright Committee papers. The Membership Committee had a sporadic existence, but all defunct members' files and papers relating to membership status have been grouped with the committee's papers. The Management Committee was responsible for co-ordination and direction of ACP activities between Council meetings. The Booksellers Committee and Export Committee records are completely absent. Included are agendas, minutes and papers, correspondence, briefs, reports and drafts, articles and clippings.
Series consists of subject files of the ACP relating to its founding, finances, organizations, government departments, persons, topics, press releases and IPA administrative, policy, research and service functions. Included are correspondence and memoranda, reports and briefs, newsletters, articles, news clippings, press releases, minutes, budgets, grant applications and financial statements, survey responses, catalogues and photographs.
Series consists of the day files of the IPA/ACP, arranged in chronological order. Included are correspondence originating from the IPA/ACP, financial statements, minutes , news releases and some Literary Press Group correspondence.
Series consists of a collection of briefs to government relevant to the book publishing industry. Included are briefs from the Canadian Book Publishers Council and from the interim Council of Canadian Publishers, briefs to the Ontario Royal Commission on Book Publishing, miscellaneous briefs and speeches, briefs on copyright and libraries, IPA briefs and related correspondence, clippings and notes.
Series consists of the IPA Newsletter, (1973-77), Notebook (1977-82) and the Publishing Policy File (1980-81). The series is missing numbers 2, 3, 12 and 14 of the Notebook. Included are correspondence, clippings, photographs, and news releases that were used to compile the newsletter and the 1982 newsletter mailing list.
Series consists of records relating to the ACP's program of professional development and foreign fairs assistance to its members.
Subseries consists of records relating to professional development. Included are minutes and papers of the Professional Development Committee (1977-79), correspondence, reports, transcripts, programs, brochures and catalogues relating to professional development seminars organized by the ACP and other organizations. The seminars covered financial, technical, legal and marketing aspects of book publishing. Funding assistance was provided by the Secretary of State.
Subseries consists of records relating to ACP and Canadian publishers attendance and book displays at major international book fairs such as London, Frankfurt and Bologna. Included are correspondence, memoranda, telegrams, lists, notes, clippings, business cards, brochures, programs, floor plans and photographs.
Series consists of records of the Literary Press Group. Projects documented are the 'Access Project', or annual LPG catalogue, and the Cloudland Direct Marketing initiative. Included are the constitution, minutes and papers of general and executive meetings, correspondence and memoranda, budgets, grant applications, catalogue supplements, mailing lists, contracts, reports and surveys.
Series consists of records relating to the creation, operation and administration of the Book Purchase Program. The records document IPA involvement in its planning and administration, as well as program details such as titles and recipients selected. Included are minutes, speech, clippings, press releases, correspondence, address and account book, budgets, lists and purchase orders.
Series consists of records relating to the operation of three projects initiated by the IPA: Canadabooks, Canadian Basic Books and Canadian Book Information Centre. The records of the overseeing body, Canadian Publishers Project Co-ordinating Committee, are absent. Included are correspondence, legal documents, minutes, notes, catalogues, questionnaires, audit statements, budgets and reports.
Subseries consists of records relating to the Canadabooks project. Documented are its endeavors to increase the sale of members' titles in the educational field through salespersons and production of joint catalogues. Included are bylaws, minutes and papers of the Board of Governors and general meetings, correspondence, financial statements, contracts, reports and catalogues.
Subseries consists of records relating to the Canadian Basic Books project. Included are limited amount of correspondence, the catalogues and final report of the project.
Subseries consists of records of the Canadian Book Information Centre prior to its restructuring in 1976. Also documented is the Library Information Project, a survey of libraries intended to enhance the services offered by publishers and suppliers. Included are minutes and papers of the management and executive committees, correspondence, brochures, catalogues, reports and budgets.
Series consists of grant applications to the Canada Council and Ontario Arts Council by the ACP and its affiliates for the years 1979-1981 and 1983, and of ACP audited financial statements for the years 1972, 1974, 1979 and 1981. Included are budgets, financial statements, annual and semi-annual reports, correspondence and proposals for the ACP, the BC, Alberta and Atlantic publishers, the LPG and the projects Canadabooks and Canadian Book Information Centre projects. The files have been maintained in their original alphabetized order. Miscellaneous audited IPA/ACP Financial Statements are also found in the series.
Series consists of records documenting the ACP's relationship with the Book and Periodical Development Council and as a member of three committees within it. Included are minutes and papers of the Council and General meetings from 1978; the 1978 Book and Periodical Development Council bylaws, memos, reports, briefs and correspondence relating to the first two years of the Council's existence; the results of a 1978 election survey on publishing policies of the three federal political parties and minutes and papers of the Freedom of Information Committee, the Task Force on Library Information and the Distribution Task Force.
Series consists of several groups of working files, most apparently maintained by the IPA/ACP's Executive Directors, and reflecting the Association's efforts in gathering information and monitoring and encouraging government policy on aspects of the book publishing industry. Included are correspondence, minutes, lists, speeches, reports, memoranda, questionnaires, surveys, and statutes.
Subseries consists of records of the Book Publishing and Public Policy Conference, held in Ottawa in April, 1981, which was sponsored jointly by the ACP and the Writer's Union of Canada. Included are correspondence, minutes and papers of the organizing committee, mailing and registration lists, invitations, programs, photographs, speeches and briefs from the conference's keynote speakers (Francis Fox, Margaret Atwood, Bryan Sims, Roy MacSkimming, James Lorimer and Patsy Aldana), and notes and proceedings from the conference panels.
Subseries consists of records relating to the federal Foreign Investment Review Act (FIRA) and on the ownership changes of particular publishing companies, control within the North American publishing industry, and the public response to the threatened closure of Macmillan Publishing in 1980. Included are legislation, correspondence, annual and other reports, clippings, newsletters, memoranda and news releases.
Subseries consists of records of the Fulfillment Working Group. Chaired by James Lorimer, the group researched the viability of organizing a co-operative publishers warehouse. The group commissioned studies from Rien Hennephof and Haskin and Sells and drew up a proposal which was never implemented. Included are correspondence, papers, surveys, and proposals.
Subseries consists of records relating to the subject of government policy in the fields of copyright, foreign investment, co-publishing, cultural industries and book tariffs. Also documented is the Tariff Monitoring Work Group, a joint government/industry endeavour under the auspices of the Book and Periodical Development Council set up to monitor the effects of zero-rating the import tariff on books. Included are articles, briefs, minutes and papers.
Subseries consists of records relating to the IPA/ACP work with Statistics Canada to improve and refine the federal governments' annual statistics on the book publishing industry. Included are a draft and final versions of the survey questionnaires, survey booklets, draft reports, statistical tables, correspondence and clippings.
Series consists of brochures, handbooks, catalogues, pamphlets and reports produced by the ACP or drawn from the ACP's collection. Included are IPA/ACP information brochures, handbooks and directories, Literary Press Group catalogues, reports taken from the Education Committee's collection of publications and a pamphlet celebrating the fifteenth anniversary of the House of Anansi.
Fonds consists of materials documenting mainly the personal life of the Halpern family but also includes some records relating to George's and Fanny's scientific and professional interests. Activities and topics documented include the Halperns' emigration to Canada, George's scientific research and business enterprises, his work with Brock House (a senior citizen's centre), Ida's community interests, and Fanny's medical career in China.
Series consists of records relating to George Halpern's emigration to Canada, and his scientific, business and community activities.
The subseries consists primarily of incoming letters from family and friends. Topics covered include, correspondence from the 1930s relating to the Halperns' efforts to emigrate to Canada and also George's early attempts to start a business in Canada. There are many letters from George's sister. In later decades, there are letters from Ida describing her travels and other letters from friends and associates regarding George's philanthropic activities Subseries also includes personal papers such as birth certificate, immigration papers, passport, school certificates, and legal documents including wills, power of attorney and tax returns.
Subseries includes research notes and diary, correspondence, reports, reprints, financial records, annual reports and other documents.
Sub-subseries consists of records relating to George Halpern's early pharmaceutical research. Includes notebooks, correspondence, reports, reprints and other documents.
Sub-subseries consists of correspondence relating to George Halpern's pharmaceutical business in Canada.
Sub-subseries consists of records relating to George Halpern's research for the Canadian Fishing Company. Includes correspondence, research diaries, lab reports, publications, and other documents.
Sub-subseries consists of one file relating to George Halpern's membership in the Chemical Institute of Canada.
Sub-subseries consists of records relating to George Halpern's later business ventures in the plywood industry. Includes correspondence, formula book, financial papers, and other documents.
Subseries relates to George Halpern's community activities. Records include correspondence, minutes, newsletters, financial statements, clippings, scrapbook, guest book, and audio-cassettes relating to Brock House. Also includes correspondence, reports, minutes and other documents relating to the Dunbar West Point Grey Southlands Community Resources Board and the Dunbar West Point Grey Southlands Task Force, which was set up to run the election for the Community Resources Board.
The bulk of Ida Halpern's professional papers are in the Provincial Archives of British Columbia. This series includes inventories of her papers at that repository as well as records relating to a few professional and community activities. The correspondence is mainly personal, from friends or relatives, or related to Ida Halpern's volunteer efforts to promote music appreciation in Vancouver through various community groups. These groups included the Vancouver Women's Musical Club, Friends of Chamber Music, Festival Concert Society, and the Metropolitan Opera National Council (for regional auditions). Some related material, such as programs and brochures, is also included. There is some correspondence regarding her work for UBC Extension, The Province newspaper, CBC Radio, and Folkways records. One file, entitled by Ida Halpern, "Fan Mail," contains letters received about her articles, courses, or broadcasts. Series contains birth certificate, school certificates, deed, copyrights, will, income tax returns, university records, diploma, curriculum vita, chapter of biography, film proposal, death certificate, obituaries and other news clippings. Also includes brochures, course outlines, notes, and exams relating to some of Ida Halpern's courses for U.B.C. Extension, notes for reviews, speeches, classes and articles as well as reprints of What is Modern Music, and Indian Music of the Pacific Northwest Coast.
Series consists of incoming correspondence, and legal documents containing mortgage and purchase agreement regarding piece of property in Vancouver. Also includes philanthropic letters consisting of correspondence, drafts and copies of legal documents and other records pertaining to the Halperns' donations to the British Columbia Archives and Records Service, the University of Victoria, and SFU.
Series includes records relating to and created by Fanny Gisela Halpern.
Subseries consists of biographical information, personal papers, legal documents, autograph books and notebooks. Also includes letters written to Fanny by her parents, and letters written by Fanny to secure repayment of her loan of $19,000 to the Augustinian Fathers of Shanghai.
Subseries consists of personal and professional correspondence, patient notes, notebook of clinical data, scrapbook of newspaper clippings about Fanny's career, reprints of published articles, speeches on medical topics given by Fanny at various conferences and meetings, and lecture notes for some of her courses in neurology and psychiatry.
Subseries consists of various files relating to organizations, such as the Chinese Medical Association; subjects of interest, such as aphasia; or publications, such as the Shanghai Medical Journal.
Series consists of the personal papers of Simon and Rosalie Halpern including birth certificate, identity card, professional certification, passport, immigration papers, and other material. Also includes personal letters from Fanny, George and Ida, and friends.
Series consists of memorabilia (artifacts), photographic prints, transparencies and contact sheets relating to George, Ida, Fanny, Simon and Rosalie Halpern. Also includes four phonograph recordings primarily related to Ida Halpern's research into Pacific Northewest Indian music.
Subseries contains memorabilia such as Chinese money, coin collection, and George Halpern's advertising materials. Includes artifacts, certificates, and display materials.
Subseries consists of approximately 375 black and white or colour prints, 98 colour transparencies, and 9 contact sheets. The prints appear to be mainly silver gelatin prints, although some of the older portraits are probably albumin prints. The photographs and transparencies date from ca. 1900 to 1989.
Subseries consists of three commercial phonograph recordings (Folkways Records) relating to Ida Halpern's research into the music of the Pacific Northwest Indians. Also includes one phonograph recording, "Music I Like," by Ida Halpern, made from a CBC broadcast, October 16, 1949, and an interview with Ida Halpern (undated).
Fonds consists of records arising from the general administration of the East Enders Society, and from the Society's participation in various social service projects for women in Vancouver's East Side. Fonds includes financial statements, receipts, correspondence, bulletins, reports, proposals, minutes of meetings, constitutions, job applications, letters of reference, newspaper clippings, audio tapes of interviews with Society members, partial transcripts of interviews, and other records.
Series consists of records arising from the establishment, organization, adminstration and dissolution of the East Enders Society. Series includes constitution, minutes, correspondence, notes, and other documents.
Series consists of records arising from fundraising, budgeting, and accounting activities of the East Enders Society. Series includes financial statements, ledgers, budgets, and correspondence.
Series consists of records arising from the hiring of house mothers and social workers for the East Enders Society hostels. Series includes correspondence, lists of applicants, letters of reference, job descriptions, social worker's reports, statistics on hostel guests, and other materials.
Series consists primarily of newsletters from the East Enders Society. Includes two newsletters from the Battered Women's Support Services.
In the early 1990s, a member of the Kettle Society undertook a project to write the history of the East Enders Society. As part of this project, she interviewed several members of the Society and partial transcriptions of the audio taped interviews were completed. Members of the Society also submitted notes and proposals for book sections. The book project was eventually abandoned before the Society was officially dissolved in 1994. Series includes audio taped interviews, partial transcripts of interviews, notes and correspondence.
Series consists of records arising from the Society's involvement in various projects serving women and other individuals in Vancouver's East End. These activities include projects operated primarily by the Society (such as the Hostel and the Women's Centre), projects in which Society members were actively involved (such as Franklin House and Renfrew Park Manor), and projects and groups for which the Society provided financial support (such as the Kettle Friendship Society and the Vi Fineday Family Shelter Society). Series includes correspondence, brochures, bulletins, requests for funds, proposals, receipts, thank-you cards, and other materials.
The fonds of the Department of Biological Sciences consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include the administration of the department and its facilities; departmental, faculty, and external meetings; research proposals and funding applications; correspondence with university and external bodies and persons; curriculum and program planning, development and delivery; and the promotion and advertisement of the department's curriculum, programs and activities. The types of documents include meeting agenda and minutes, correspondence, directives, photographs, published materials, and research papers.
The series consists of records relating to the administrative and operational activities and interests of the department Chairman, including research, funding, relations with external bodies including the federal and provincial governments, proposals for new programs and courses, the Bamfield Marine Station and the Master of Pest Management program. Record types include circulars, correspondence, directives, reports and working papers. For a list of correspondents (as reflected in file titles), see Access Points below.
Series consists of records relating to departmental research grants and projects funded from both governmental and non-governmental sources. It includes correspondence, research proposals, grant applications, and working papers. Files are arranged in alphabetical order by name of faculty member; for names, see Access Points below.
Series consists of records relating to the decisions, actions and activities of various departmental and faculty academic and administrative committees. The majority of files relate to the Departmental Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (DUCC) and the Departmental Graduate Studies Committee (DGSC), but see Access Points below for full list of committees represented. The series includes meeting agenda and minutes, correspondence, reports, and working papers.
Series consists of printed and published materials relating to the promotion and advertisement of department courses, programs and activities. It includes brochures, pamphlets, and circulars; materials from the 1960s prepared by the Academic Board for Higher Education in British Columbia; the departmental newsletter Bio-Bull (1975-1976); a report by marine biology students on British Columbia as a maritime province (1975); and a report of the Behavioural Ecology Research Group on its activities for the period 1983-1988.
Series consists of records relating to the administrative and operational activities and responsibilities of the department. These activities include relations with other departments of the university, other universities, colleges, high schools, governments, organizations, and corporations. Also documented are activities relating to enrollment, undergraduate and graduate student curricula, administrative systems and procedures, departmental policies, transfer credits, bursaries and scholarships, public relations, teaching, facilities and research. The series includes correspondence, copies of Senate minutes detailing appointments, and memoranda. For a partial list of correspondents, see Access Points below; names have been registered as access points if they appear in file titles.
Series consists of records relating to the courses offered by the department, including course content, requirements, expectations and examinations. It includes correspondence, course outlines, sample examination papers, and reports.
The chief function of the Centre for Pest Management was the administration and promotion of pest management research and the provision of instruction. In meeting this responsibility, its Director worked to forge links with other universities, research institutes and professional associations, as well as to attract eminent pest management experts, entomologists and plant pathologists to give guest lectures or conduct research. It also provided a place of instruction for students in all degree programs. Series consists of records relating to the administrative and operational activities and responsibilities of the Centre. It includes meeting agenda and minutes, correspondence, course and program proposals and outlines, directives, proposals, published materials, reports, and working papers.
Fonds consists of records arising from the activities of the Department of Kinesiology. Fonds includes correspondence, memos, reports, proposals, financial records and architectural plans relating to provisions for the study of Kinesiology at SFU. The fonds also includes records created by the Interdisciplinary Committee on Kinesiology as well as correspondence relating to the professional interests of E.W. Banister while Chair of the Department.
Series consists of records arising from the activities of the Interdisciplinary Committee on Kinesiology. Series includes minutes of meetings, correspondence, reports and proposals relating to the development of staff and resources to facilitate the study of Kinesiology at the University.
Series consists of records arising from the administrative activities of the Chair of the Department of Kinesiology. Series includes incoming and outgoing correspondence as well as memos, minutes of departmental meetings, and financial statements. In addition, the series includes correspondence relating to professional research interests of Chair E.W. Banister.
Series consists of subject files created by the Department of Kinesiology relating to departmental activities such as course and program development, research, and assisting students in matters such as employment. Series includes reports and essays as well as program and course proposals and evaluations.
Series consists of records relating to the physical facilities of the Department of Kinesiology. Series includes correspondence, memos, financial records, photographs and architectural plans.
The collection consists of agendas and minutes from the Women's Studies Coordinating Committee and the Women's Studies Graduate Committee. The collection also includes a proposal for a minor in Women's Studies and a correspondence file that contains letters exchanged between Lolita Wilson, Assistant to the Vice-President, Academic and the Committee on the Status of Women of the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada (AUCC). The latter file also contains a copy of Wilson's 1972 report, "Women at Simon Fraser University."
The fonds consists of records relating to the activities of the department. Activities and events documented include the history of the department, the delivery of courses in Women's Studies, the administration of student work study programs and honorary degree nominations, and the organization of various events such as conferences, retreats, seminars and speakers series. Records include correspondence, reports, proposals, course outlines and descriptions, photographs, posters, conference materials, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the evolution of the department, in particular the establishment of the Women's Studies Program at SFU and the introduction of a Master of Arts degree in Women's Studies. Records include correspondence, reports, and proposals.
Series consists of records documenting the content and evaluation standards of courses. Records include course outlines and descriptions, reading lists, class schedules, examination and assignment questions, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to various administrative activities carried out by the department, including work study programs for students and an honorary degree nomination (Muriel Duckworth). Records include correspondence, proposals, and nomination documentation such as CVs, articles, and other background documentation.
Series consists of records documenting various conferences, seminars, and retreats organized by the department, and in particular those sponsored by the Ruth Wynn Woodward Endowed Chair. See sub-series descriptions for activities documented and record types included.
Sub-series consists of one file relating to a retreat that took place in April 1990. Records include photographs.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the "Telling It: Women and Language Across Cultures" conference held by the department on 25 and 26 November 1988 at the downtown SFU campus. Speakers at the conference included Jeannette Armstrong, Barbara Herringer, Surjeet Kalsey, Joy Kogawa, Sky Lee, Lee Maracle, Louise Profeit-LeBlanc, and Betsy Warland. There was also a performance by Vancouver Sath. Records include registration and speaker lists, correspondence, grant proposals, promotional materials, evaluations, documentation relating to a bibliography, a final budget, and other documents.
Sub-series consists of records relating to "The Female Constituency" seminar held by the department on 6 February 1988 at SFU's Burnaby campus. Speakers included Rosemary Brown (1987 Ruth Wynn Woodward Professor), Marilyn Callahan, Penny Coates, Reva Dexter, Ruth Emery, Ellen Gee, Clarissa Green, Elaine Jacobson, Helga Jacobson, Arlene Tigar McLaren, Barbara Whittington, and Lillian Zimmerman. Records include correspondence, participant and invitation lists, a grant proposal, promotional and program package materials, a bibliography (which was offered for purchase post-conference), budget documentation, photographs, and other documents.
Sub-series consists of records relating to a retreat held by the department May 13 through 15, 1988 at Bowen Island. The retreat was for women's studies instructors from colleges and universities in BC and the Yukon. Talks were given by Maggie Benston, Lynda Erickson, Daphne Marlatt, and Greta Nemiroff. Records include correspondence, participant and invitation lists, program package and reference materials, a final budget, and other documents.
Series consists of records documenting various lectures and talks given by high-profile, invited speakers, including those sponsored by the Ruth Wynn Woodward Endowed Chair. Speakers have included Lorenne M.G. Clark, Linda M. Fedigan, Ruth Hubbard, Evelyn Fox Keller, Jane Rule, and Eleanor Wachtel, among others. Records include correspondence, proposals, CVs, promotional materials (including posters), and other documentation.
Series consists of publications and promotional materials that have been actively collected by the SFU Archives to document the Women's Studies program and department. Records include newsletters, program information, posters, brochures, and other documents.
Fonds consists of records created or received by the Centre for Canadian Studies in the course of administering its program and carrying out its operational functions. Activities and topics documented include the establishment, organization, and operation of the Centre, and the development and delivery of courses to undergraduate students. Fonds includes Canadian Studies Steering Committee agendas, minutes, and related papers; correspondence; reports; course proposals and descriptions; and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the development, administration, organization and operation of the Canadian Studies Program and its successor, the Centre for Canadian Studies. Series includes Steering Committee agendas, minutes and papers; reports; proposals; and other documents.
Series consists primarily of correspondence created or received by the Director of the Canadian Studies Program but includes some reports and other types of documents. Includes one file of correspondence about the Canadian Studies Program that had been originally received by the Office of the Dean, Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies.
Series consists of records relating to the development and delivery of courses that constituted the Canadian Studies program including courses for the certificate in French Canadian Studies and a proposed French bilingual program. Records include correspondence, proposals, reports, course outlines, and other documents.
Sub-series consists of records relating to curriculum and instruction generally, not falling under a more specific category. Activities and events documented include the provision of Canadian content courses by other departments, grading policies, and scheduling. Records include course outlines, correspondence, policies, and schedules.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the development of individual courses in Canadian Studies as well as the requirements for a minor and major in Canadian Studies and the provision for a joint major with other departments. Records include correspondence, proposals, and surveys.
Sub-series consists of records documenting the content and evaluation standards of courses. Records include course outlines and descriptions; reading lists; and assignments and essay questions.
Sub-series consists of records documenting the discussion of a mandatory French language requirement for Canadian Studies majors, a proposal for a Canadian Studies program in French, and the development and delivery of a French-Canadian studies certificate program. Records include correspondence, proposals, brochures, questionnaires, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the meetings and deliberations of the Centre's committees, and university committees in which the Centre participated. Records include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers.
Series consists of records relating to topics of interest to the Centre for Canadian Studies. Records include correspondence, reports, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to students of the Centre for Canadian studies. Activities, events and topics documented include student representation on the Canadian Studies Steering Committee. Records include correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to conferences, seminars, and other special events in which the Centre participated. Records include correspondence, reports, proposals, lists and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to publicizing the course offerings of the Centre for Canadian Studies. Records include posters, newsletters, brochures and other documents.
Fonds consists of records made, received, and collected by Patrick McTaggart-Cowan in both his personal and professional life. Records document McTaggart-Cowan's work in Newfoundland both before and during W.W.II, his time with the Meteorological Service of Canada, as President of Simon Fraser University, as head of the Science Council, as head of Task Force Operation Oil and his activities after he retired. Also includes personal records relating to family, education, friends, and personal interests. Includes autobiographical records, correspondence, diaries, journals, scrapbooks, notepads, financial records, speeches, publications, photographs, and artifacts.
Series consists of records documenting the life of Patrick McTaggart-Cowan. Includes autobiographical notes, curriculum vitae, biography, a 1929 high school annual, school notes, honourary degrees, certificates, interviews, and articles about McTaggart-Cowan.
Series consists of correspondence created and received by Patrick McTaggart-Cowan in both his personal and professional life. Includes records that reflect his student days at UBC and Oxford, his professional life from when he first joined the Meteorological Service to when he retired from the Science Council in 1975, and correspondence after his retirement. Also includes correspondence relating to a number of projects, events or interests with which McTaggart-Cowan was concerned.
Sub-series consists of general correspondence created or received by Patrick McTaggart-Cowan. Records document a wide range of activities, and concerns relevant to McTaggart-Cowan's personal and professional life.
Sub-series consists of correspondence reflecting the relationship between McTaggart-Cowan and Simon Fraser University. Includes records that reflect his tenure as president, his resignation, the granting of an honourary degree in 1972, and his continued involvement with the university.
Sub-series consists of correspondence relating to specific subjects, such as acid rain and oil spills. Also includes correspondence relating to conferences attended by McTaggart-Cowan.
Series consists of diaries, journals, notepads, and appointment books that reflect McTaggart-Cowan's daily activities. Also includes one diary written by Margaret McTaggart-Cowan, and scrapbooks complied by her.
Series consists of records relating to the personal finances of McTaggart-Cowan. Includes records that reflect income while serving in Newfoundland, household accounts, banking records, and purchases.
Series consists of speeches given by McTaggart-Cowan on a number of topics, including meteorology, education, and science policy. Includes both finished speeches, rough notes, and background material. Also includes notes on lectures in meteorology given at SFU.
Series consists of publications written or collected by McTaggart-Cowan. Includes articles by McTaggart-Cowan, newspaper clippings, and publications and reports about the oil spill at Chedabucto Bay.
Series consists of photographs produced throughout Patrick McTaggart-Cowan's personal and professional life. Includes photographs of family, school days, portraits, Gander airport, conferences, SFU, and others.
Series consists of a collection of artifacts accumulated by Patrick McTaggart-Cowan. Includes trophies, plaques, one print, and medals received by McTaggart-Cowan including the Order of Canada and Member of the British Empire. Series also includes a wooden replica of the university mace presented to McTaggart-Cowan in 1968.
Series comprises records relating to McTaggart-Cowan's work as Head of the Task Force Operation Oil, established by the Minister of Transport in February 1970. On February 4, 1970 the Liberian tanker the Arrow was wrecked on Cerberus Rock in Chedabucto Bay, off Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia. The tanker was bound from Venezuela carrying a cargo of 108,000 barrels of Bunker C fuel oil for Imperial Oil Limited. It is estimated that some two-thirds of the cargo was released into the Bay, polluting 190 miles of the Bay's 375-mile shoreline. The wreck in Chedabucto Bay was the first major spill of heavy Bunker C oil in frigid waters and presented problems for clean-up which were without precedent. Initial clean-up efforts were directed by James Hornsby of Imperial Oil; he was replaced on February 13. On February 20, the Minster of Tranport appointed a three-man Task Force dubbed “Operation Oil,” with McTaggart-Cowan as the Head, assisted by Dr. H. Sheffer of the Defense Research Board of Canada (Deputy Head), and Capt. M. A. Martin of Maritime Command. The mandate of the Task Force was to minimize damage to the economy and ecology of the region, to gain a knowledge and understanding of oil spills in order to contend with similar incidents in the future, and to make recommendations for minimizing occurrences of oil spills and for providing immediate response and control. In overseeing the clean-up, the Task Force established various headquarters and field units, with much of the on-site capability being provided by the Canadian Armed Forces. Operation Oil reported to the Minister on September 1, 1970 (Final Report, volumes I - III). Clean-up efforts continued over the next two years, and the Task Force delivered the fourth and last volume of its Final Report on May 23, 1972. Records include correspondence, memoranda, minutes, photographs, diaries, reports and publications (including the Final Report of the Task Force), press releases and press clippings, telegrams, proposals, contracts, plans and drawings, claims sheets and invoices. Note that the records in this series were made or received by McTaggart-Cowan in his official capacity as Head of the Task Force, an agency of the federal government. Accordingly, in terms of provenance these are public records of Ministry of Transport. The records remained, however, in the physical custody of McTaggart-Cowan and were transferred to the Archives along with his private papers. Note that associated records may also be held by the federal government department Environment Canada. According to a letter to McTaggart-Cowan dated July 6, 1971 (see file F-65-9-1-19), "much of the reconnaissance data obtained at Chedabucto Bay on ‘Operation Oil' has been placed on microfilm and is stored at the Canadian Oceanographic Data Centre."
Subseries comprises records relating to the activities of Operation Oil, including project management, liaison with the Ministry of Transport, salvage, clean-up, research, international correspondence, and liaison with the local community and general public. Records consist predominantly of correspondence and memoranda, but also include McTaggart-Cowan's operations diaries, telegrams, reports, proposals, plans, drawings, press releases, claims sheets, and invoices.
Subseries comprises records relating to the regular meetings of Operation Oil personnel, including meetings of Task Force heads and meetings of the evening staff. Records consist of minutes.
Subseries comprises photographic records documenting the activities of Operation Oil. Records consist of photographs, a register of negatives and correspondence with the photographer.
Subseries comprises records relating to the communication of the activities and findings of Operation Oil. Records consist of reports received by McTaggart-Cowan from the various units of the Task Force, situation reports and progress reports sent to Ottawa by McTaggart-Cowan, and Operation Oil's published Final Report. Volumes I – III of the Final Report were submitted to the Minister in 1970; Volume IV covered the subsequent follow-up activities and was delivered in 1972 (published 1973).
Subseries consists of articles, presentations and correspondence relating to public speaking engagements by McTaggart-Cowan concerning his experiences, findings and opinions relating to the Chedabucto Bay oil spill.
Subseries comprises documents relating to the Chedabucto Bay oil spill which were received or collected by McTaggart-Cowan and retained for background, reference and information purposes. The authors of the material were not members of the Task Force and include academics, government and industry researchers, and journalists. Records consist of press clippings and published and non-published studies, reports and papers.
Fonds consists of transcripts and cassettes arising from Stainsby's master's thesis. Descriptive information for individual interviews has been transcribed from original cassette covers; see in the hard-copy finding aid Appendix 5 and item-level descriptions.
Series consists of transcripts and audio recordings arising from Gillian Stainsby's thesis. Note that all item-level Scope and content descriptions are transcriptions from the cassette cover of Stainsby's original recordings.
Addie was a retiring net woman at Prince Rupert Fishermen's Coop. Interview recorded at work.
Frances was a Tsmipshian woman who commuted annually between New Westminster and Prince Rupert. Interview recorded at her home in New Westminster.
Joy was a young mother who had been active in (and employed by) the UFAWU. Interview recorded at her home.
Celeste was a young French-Canadian woman.
Anita was a young mother, daughter of Terry, born in Prince Rupert.
Virginia was a mother, a Tahltan, night shift cannery charge hand.
Balwinder was an East Indian woman who immigrated to Prince Rupert around 1980. Interviewed at her home.
Rosa was a Portuguese immigrant, mother of four.
Dora was a Haida from Masset, mother of eight.
Penny was from Kitkatla.
Faye and Terry were floor lady and assistant floor lady at BC Packers Seal Cover plant before it was demolished, and at time of interview were at the BC Packers Prince Rupert plant, groundfish lines. Faye was a Scot; Terry was from Jersey. They were both immigrants.
Sandra was a young mother in a mixed native / white family. She was on the Board of Directors of one of the unions. Interviewed at her home in Prince Rupert.
Judy did work often reserved for men.
Mary was a Japanese mother of three.
Judy was a mother of five who expected to be at BC Packers Imperial plant for another 25 years; very union-active.
Thelma spent ten years at BC Packers Imperial plant in Steveston, but decided to quit due to a bad leg; very union-active.
Elsie was a Norwegian / Haida woman, chief shop stewart, who had worked in the fishery since 1975.
Taped in the lunch room at Canadian Fish, herring season.
The Women's Labour History Project documents the histories of women who were active in the trade union movement in British Columbia from 1890s onwards. The project was initiated by Sara Diamond, an undergraduate history student at SFU, who conducted the interviews. She received financial support from the British Columbia Summer Youth Employment Fund. Additional funding was received from many other sources, including The Canada Council, and the Federal Department of Human Resources. Diamond provides a description of her research methodology in a report included as Appendix A1, "Women's Labour History Project" (available in the hard-copy finding aid only). The collection consists of 43 interviews conducted by Sara Diamond with women in the labour movement in British Columbia. The women discuss their childhoods, family lives, careers, social issues such as childcare and birth control, economic situations such as the depression and post-war employment, and the working conditions that led them to become union activists. A summary of each interview is provided in Appendix 1, "Women's Labour History Project" (available in hard-copy finding aid only). The collection contains audio recordings and transcripts.
Series consists of transcripts of the interviews.
Series consists of audio recordings of the interviews.
Fonds consists of records arising from the creation of the Non-Faculty Teachers Association. Fonds includes a constitution, and correspondence. The fonds consists of one file.
Sue Cox was an undergraduate student at SFU, who was a student in one of Maggie Benston's classes. The collection consists of handwritten class notes and reprints from Maggie Benston's first offering of the course, "Women, Science and Technology," (WS 204-3). The collection consists of one file.
The fonds of the Department of Chemistry consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. Also included are the records of the Canadian Council of University Chemistry Chairmen. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curricula and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of journals and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, an external review, faculty files, memoranda, minutes of meetings, and reports.
Series consists of annual reports of the Department.
Series consists of records relating to student awards, including letters of recommendation, award notifications information.
Series consists of records relating to the disbursement of funding within the Department, including salary issues. It includes correspondence and financial statements.
Series consists of materials relating to the participation of the Department Chair in the Council. It includes agenda, minutes, correspondence and reports. Department Chair C.W. Jones served as Secretary-Treasurer of the Council from 1982-1985, and as Council Chair from 1985.
Series consists of memoranda concerning the appointment of a Department Chair.
Series consists of the records of Department committees. It includes agenda, minutes, correspondence and associated papers.
Series consists of records related to new courses and programs in Chemistry. It includes program proposals and correspondence.
Series consists of correspondence between the Department Chair and the Dean of Science on a variety of issues.
Series consists of correspondence from the Department Chair to other faculty members and the Dean of Science concerning the position of the Chair and the Canadian Council of University Chemistry Chairmen (CCUCC) on the review of NSERC programs.
Series consists of records related to liaison activities of the Department with schools, industry, and research foundations and facilities. It includes correspondence, memoranda, conference materials, proposals, and reports.
Series consists of records related to meetings of the Department and the physical chemists group in the Department. It includes agenda, minutes, and associated papers.
Series consists of records related to planning and the external evaluation of the Department.
Series consists of newsletters, news releases, and publications of the Department related to the promotion of programs and facilities.
Series consists of records related to radiation safety in the facilities of the Department. It includes memoranda, policy and procedure documents, and reports.
Series consists of correspondence between the Simon Fraser Student Society and the Chemical Sciences Student Union.
Series consists of records related to instruction in the Department. It includes correspondence, course evaluations, transcripts, and examination papers.
Series consists of materials related to proposals for the establishment of the Institute, including correspondence.
Series consists of records related to Department involvement in committees of the Faculty of Science. These committees include the Biochemistry Curriculum Committee, Faculty Graduate Curriculum Committee, Faculty of Science Executive Committee, and the Faculty of Science Undergraduate Committee. It includes agenda, minutes, correspondence and related papers.
Fonds consists primarily of the personal and professional correspondence of Allan Cunningham and a collection of historical essays about SFU.
Series consists of the personal and professional correspondence of Cunningham as well as miscellaneous documents apparently kept by Cunningham for their historical value in depicting the early years at SFU. Documents relate to such topics as the opening of the University, administrative and teaching matters, student protests, and the Friends of SFU (a U.S.-based fund-raising organization).
Cunningham asked several early faculty and other members of the SFU community to write down their recollections of the early years of the University. He had hoped that the University would produce a collection of essays to mark its 20th Anniversary. On the advice of an anonymous referee, the University decided against publishing the work. Cunningham considered other ways of producing the volume, but died before he could complete the project. Series includes rough drafts and final drafts of essays selected for the volume by Cunningham. Essays are listed by individual author. Series also includes correspondence about the project, essays not selected for the proposed volume (submissions by Cunningham, G. Bursill-Hall, T. Finlayson, M. Gibbons, E. Harden, A. Hean, D. Roberts, W. Vidauer, and L. Wilson), and a collection of historical essays by Archie MacKinnon.
Evelyn Woods was a mature student who entered the University to complete a teaching certificate. She befriended early staff members of The Peak student newspaper and often brought them cakes and other treats. In return, when she completed her studies in 1968, Peak staffers gave her a scrapbook as a souvenir. Collection consists of one scrapbook of news clippings, and selected issues of The Tartan, SF View, The Peak and other memorabilia.
The Dance in Vancouver collection consists of interviews by Karen Greenhough with eight dance pioneers in British Columbia. The project was suggested by Greenhough's instructor, Iris Garland, SFU Professor of Dance, who obtained support through a Young Canada Works Grant. The collection consists of seven interviews. Dancers interviewed include Kay Armstrong, Dorothy Hunter, Beth Lockhart, Grace MacDonald, June Roper, Josephine Slater, Dorothy Wilson, and Wynne Shaw. For one of the sessions, Greenhough interviewed two women (Dorothy Wilson and Wynne Shaw) at the same time.
Collection consists of two scrapbooks. One scrapbook contains newspaper clippings and other material that documents the Abortion Caravan to Ottawa in 1970. The second scrapbook documents Janiel Jolley as a protest candidate of the Simon Fraser Student Society for Miss Canadian University Beauty.
Fonds consists of records created, received, and collected by the Simon Fraser Student Society and its affiliated groups on campus in the course of administration of student government and business. Included are records relating to the Constitution, minutes of Executive meetings, the Executive, finance and budgets, campus committees, elections, student unions, clubs and affiliated groups, publications, subject files, and audio material.
Series consists of the constitution of the Simon Fraser Student Society. Included are the first constitution, proposed amendments, Constitution Committee reports, incorporation of student societies, reference material on student government and by-laws.
Series consists of minutes of meetings of the executive council of the Simon Fraser Student Society together with agenda, papers, and relevant correspondence. Records reflect a wide range of issues affecting the student body at Simon Fraser, such as the PSA Strike, and the day to day operation of the Student Society. Also covered are budget allocations and student clubs.
Series consists of correspondence and related records of the Executive Council. Included are records reflecting issues of the day, and the general scope of activities of the members of the Executive Council.
For a list of President's represented in the correspondence, see Access Points.
Series consists of records relating to the financial responsibilities of the organization. Included are Executive budgets, club budgets, expense vouchers, Auditors' Reports, and financial statements.
Series consists of records of committees associated with the Student Society. Included are committee appointments, correspondence and related material of the Anti-Calendar Committee, Departmental Student Unions Committee, Executive Committee, External Affairs Committee, Finance Committee, Frosh Orientation Committee, Medical/Health Services Committee, Presidential Search Committee, Services Commission, Student Court Judiciary Committee, Student Implementation Committee, Symposium Committee, and the University Centre Committee.
Series consists of records relating to elections for the Executive Council of the Student Society. Included are election rules, reports to council, correspondence, election results and related material.
Series consists of records of academic student unions. Included are publications, of the Archaeology Union, Computing Science Union, Economics and Commerce Union, English Union, Geography Union, Graduate Student Union, History Union, Languages Union, PSA Union, Psychology Union, and Women's Studies Student Union. Some Student Union files also contain the constitution, by-laws, and correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to Student Society sponsored clubs, and other affiliated groups. Included are club constitutions, club executive lists, club lists, club publications, and correspondence.
Sub-series consists of records relating to SFSS clubs generally. Records include club constitutions, executive and membership lists, and publications, newsletters, and news releases of various clubs.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the operations of the Society's bookstore. The bookstore was established in 1966 and traded in used books. Records include correspondence, reports, and financial statements.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the founding of the SFU Economics Club and the first two years of its activities. Records include meeting minutes of the Executive and General Meeting, the club's constitution, correspondence and reports, invoices and budget preparation papers, and blank letterhead, stationery and membership cards.
Series consists of records relating to a number of issues, activities, and areas of interest to the Student Society. Includes correspondence, reports, publications, and ephemera on a wide range of topics such as Amnesty International, Drugs, Library Services and Parking. For a list of names that appear in file titles, see Access Points.
Series consists of publications produced by the Student Society and its affiliated groups. Includes student almanacs and handbooks, Society bulletins and newsletters, newspapers affiliated with the Society, journals, directories, guides, event flyers, notices, and posters.
Sub-series consists of publications of or funded by the Society and its clubs. Titles include newsletters of SFSS or affiliated clubs (Council Bulletin, SFU Science Undergraduate Society's Purple Period / Purple Publication, International Club Newsletter); literary or campus opinion reviews (Compass, the first issue of SFU Literary Magazine edited by Brian Fawcett and Henk Suys, Cheap Thrills, International Skyline, Makar, SFU Komix); and newspapers funded by SFSS (Identity – SFU Canadian-Persian Student Newspaper, Mountain Echoes – BC Student Multicultural Newspaper, and U-Voice – SFU Chinese Student Newspaper). Note that most titles are represented by only one or two issues. However, the sub-series does include fairly complete runs of the Council Bulletin over 1966-1967 and U-Voice from 1998-2009.
Sub-series consists of promotional material (notices, flyers, pamphlets, and leaflets) relating to events and activities sponsored by the SFSS or its clubs. Files include publications and newsletters, but no attempt was made by the creators to separate the material by organizational unit or publication title.
Sub-series consists of publications produced by the Society to inform students about SFSS activities, and SFU campus life and services. Includes student handbooks and guides, the 1967 student directory, a student-run teacher and course evaluation guide for 1978-79, and the annual SFSS Almanac that began in 1986-87 (not all years are included in the run).
Sub-series consists of posters announcing or promoting events and activities sponsored by or relating to the Student Society. Events include SFSS meetings and elections, club activities, lectures, concerts, public meetings and protests, and pub and other campus events.
Sub-series consists of the first (and only) two issues of the Simon Fraser University Yearbook created and published by the Student Society. The yearbooks are hardcover bound volumes containing photographs, text and essays relating to aspects of campus life. The editors' intention was to create an annual yearbook, and volumes were produced for the first two years of the university's existence. The yearbook was discontinued after the second year (1966-67). The sub-series contains two hardcover copies of each yearbook; in 2015 the yearbooks were digitized
The fonds consists of records created and received by the Women's Studies Association of British Columbia in carrying out its objectives. Includes constitution and by-laws, minutes, correspondence, conference registration forms, conference minutes, papers, membership lists, and publications.
The fonds consists of records created, received and collected by the Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre in carrying out their objectives. Records reflect the administration and organization of the centre; financial arrangements and funding; projects, programs and activities the centre is involved with; its relationship with other feminist organizations; and publications. Includes constitution, by-laws, minutes of general meetings, minutes of steering committee meetings, membership lists, reports, financial records, correspondence, and publications.
Series consists of records relating to the administration and organization of the Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre. Records reflect the establishment of the centre, its functions and activities, and its internal organization. Also reflects the structural relationship of committees, and members. Includes the constitution, by-laws, minutes from general meetings and from the steering committee, records of other centre committees, membership lists, policies and procedures, annual reports, and centre statistics.
Series consists of records relating to the finances of the Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre. Records reflect treasurer's reports, grant applications, and funding arrangements with the Provincial government and the United Way. Includes reports, budgets, monthly income statements, and correspondence.
Series consists of correspondence created and received by the Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre in carrying out their objectives. Records reflect general correspondence relating to centre programs, requests for information, association with other feminist groups, and the like. Also includes correspondence files relating to specific issues and topics such as Wages for Housework, the National Film Board, and letters of support for the centre.
Series consists of records relating to projects, programs, and activities of the Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre. Records reflect letter writing campaigns, and special projects such as the Douglas College Cut protest, the Coquitlam Transition House, and the Pat Isert Memorial fund. Also reflects the centre's involvement with specific issues such as discrimination in local sports and Red Hot Video. Includes correspondence, press releases, minutes, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, hand bills, and financial records.
File contains records made or received by the Women's Centre in participating in a public protest campaign against violent pornography retailed at Red Hot Video in its various outlet stores in the Lower Mainland. Records include correspondence, press releases, newspaper clippings, and brochures and pamphlets.
Series consists of records relating to the Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre's association with other women's groups. Records reflect liaison with the Vancouver Status of Women, the BC Federation of Women, women's centres throughout the Province, and others. Includes correspondence, reports, membership lists, agenda, minutes, newsletters, and ephemera.
Series consists of publications produced and collected by the Port Coquitlam Area Women's Centre. Includes the centre newsletter Women Today, a history of women's centres, guides, bulletins, newsletters from other organizations and newspaper clippings.
The Indo-Canadian Oral History Collection documents the histories of immigrants from the Punjab Province of India who came to Canada between 1912 and 1938. The project was initiated by Hari Sharma, Professor of Sociology at SFU, who conducted the interviews with the assistance of a graduate student. The interview subjects, primarily Sikhs, discuss such topics as why they came to Canada, the journey to Canada, adjustment to Canadian society upon arrival, employment in Canada, family life, and their ongoing links with their country of origin. Appendices include an interview guide prepared by Hari Sharma and an article about the project.
Series consists of audio recordings arising from the interviews.
Fonds consists of records created and received by the Simon Fraser University Women's Association in carrying out its objectives. Includes constitution and by-laws, executive lists, minutes of executive and general meetings, reports, membership lists, correspondence, newsletters, mailing lists, and records reflecting the association's activities, such as the organization of the annual Christmas party.
The fonds consist of records created, received, and collected by the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association in carrying out its functional activities. Includes records relating to its Constitution and by-laws, policy development, correspondence, general and special meetings, the executive committee, standing and ad hoc committees, and publications.
Series consists of the constitution and by-laws of the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association. Includes the Certificate of Incorporation, memoranda of understanding, a list of Faculty Association presidents, proposed revisions to the constitution and correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to the development of policies and procedures for a wide range of topics of concern to the Faculty Association including student participation in departmental affairs, liquor control, copyright, resignations, dismissals of faculty, and sabbatical leaves. Includes correspondence, briefs, reports of interim councils, memoranda of understanding, draft policies, and approved policies.
Series consists of correspondence and related records of the Simon Fraser Faculty Association. Includes records that reflect the day to day activities of the Faculty Association as well as specific issues, such as the PSA Strike. Includes external and internal correspondence and copies of memoranda from the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT).
Sub-series consists of general internal and external correspondence on a wide range of topics and issues.
Sub-series consists of correspondence between the Faculty Association and SFU departments, including PSA, Chemistry, English and others.
Sub-series consists of correspondence relating to specific subjects, such as the 12 Hour week, and others.
Sub-series consists of correspondence generated by the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) on a range of topics, including the censure of SFU, women's rights, disaffiliation from the CAUT and others.
Series consists of records relating to annual general meetings and special meetings of the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association. Records reflect general business of the Faculty Association as well as consideration of special issues. Includes agendas, minutes, correspondence, notices and reports.
Series consists of records of the Faculty Association's Executive Committee. Records reflect a wide range of issues affecting the faculty at Simon Fraser University as well as more routine matters. Includes directories, financial statements, agenda and minutes of committee meetings, correspondence, and sub-committee reports.
Series consists of records of standing and ad hoc committees of the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association. Includes correspondence, policy statements, reports, briefs, articles, agenda, constitution, by-laws, proposals, financial statements, and architectural plans.
Sub-series consists of records of the Academic Freedom and Tenure Committee. Activities documented include the development of a statement and policy on academic freedom and tenure at Simon Fraser University. Includes correspondence, policy statements, reports, briefs, and articles.
Sub-series consists of records of the Collective Bargaining Committee. Activities documented are the Faculty Association's steps to achieve recognition as the collective bargaining agent for all those eligible for membership in the Association, and its actions as that body. Includes agenda, correspondence, articles, and the 1977 report of the Committee.
Sub-series consists of records of the Economic Benefits Committee. Activities documented are advocacy for employee benefits such as salary increases, disability benefits, and insurance. Includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Sub-series consists of records of the Faculty Club Committee. Activities documented are efforts to provide, maintain and operate a centre for the recreation and convenience of faculty members and the University community. Includes the constitution and by-laws of the faculty club, minutes, reports, architectural assessments, proposals, transparencies, financial statements, and correspondence.
Sub-series consists of records of committees set up to deal with Master Teacher awards, liaison, and University development. Includes memoranda, proposals, correspondence, and minutes.
Sub-series consists of records of the Pension Committee. Activities documented include proposals and advocacy towards achieving a pension plan for SFU faculty and setting up an Advisory Committee. Includes correspondence, reports, terms of reference, and pension plans.
Sub-series consists of records of the Salaries and Negotiations Committee. Activities document advocacy for comparable salaries with other universities, pay increments, merit and equity adjustments, and other negotiations regarding faculty salaries. Includes correspondence, memoranda, proposals, briefs, and reports.
Sub-series consists of records of the University Affairs Committee. Activities documented are the investigation and reporting of grievances by faculty, students and staff. Includes frames of reference, minutes, agendas, correspondence, policy statements, reports, and grievance investigation records for specific cases such as the PSA controversy and others.
Sub-series consists of records of miscellaneous committees and subcommittees of the Faculty Association. Includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports of the Faculty Participation in University Government Committee, Sabbatical Committee, Welfare Committee and others.
Series consists of publications produced by and about the Simon Fraser University Faculty Association. Includes faculty handbooks, newsletters, bulletins, press releases, articles, and the SFUFA Splash.
The fonds of the School of Criminology consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the School and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curriculum and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; and the publication of brochures and reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda and minutes, correspondence, memoranda, pamphlets and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the history of the School, including proposals for the establishment of the Criminology program and a departmental history. It includes reports.
Series consists of correspondence and related materials received and sent by the School Director. It includes brochures, memoranda, questionnaires, and annual and other reports. Names that appear in file titles as correspondents or subjects are listed below under Access Points.
Series consists of the records of various departmental committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, agenda and minutes of meetings, and memoranda.
Series consists of the records relating to committees of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, including the Curriculum Committee. It includes correspondence, course proposals, and memoranda.
Series consists of the records relating to University committees, including the University Review committee. It includes memoranda and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the operation of the Field School, including student placement and seminars. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to various subjects, including the B.C. Police College, distance education, the Isaac Ray Memorial Lectures, and Law Foundation grants. It includes correspondence, memoranda, reports and statistics. Names that appears in file titles as correspondents or subjects are listed below under Access Points.
Series consists of records relating to various conferences sponsored, or attended by, members of the Department. It includes agenda, correspondence, pamphlets, and reports.
Series consists of various publications of the School promoting its programs. It includes brochures, pamphlets, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to students, including grade change requests by individual students.
Fonds consists of records created by the predecessor bodies of Recreational Services and Athletics. Activities and topics documented include the development of departmental policies, and objectives; the maintenance of facilities; departmental and university committees; the intercollegiate athletics program; the recreation program; the operation of athletic and recreational workshops and courses; departmental publications and publicity; and the responsibilities and operations of the Sports Information Office. The predominant document types that comprise the fonds include correspondence; policy and procedure statements; agendas and minutes; reports; proposals; travel itineraries; schedules; rosters; statistics; news releases; press clippings; programs; newsletters; posters; films; and photographic material.
Series consists of records related to the general administration and organization of the Department of Athletics and Recreation and its predecessors. Activities and topics documented include the development of departmental goals, objectives, policies, and philosophies; and the establishment of office and staff regulations and procedures. Predominant document types include correspondence, policy and procedure statements and handbooks (and other similar reference material), organizational charts, and minutes of departmental staff meetings.
Series consists of records related to proposed and actual athletic and recreational facilities, including government funded athletic training centres, a winter sports complex/ice arena, the Sports Medicine Clinic, the Outdoor Recreation Centre, and the Aquatic Centre. Activities and topics documented include planning and maintaining athletic and recreational facilities; and managing personnel. Predominant document types include correspondence, reports/proposals, a feasibility study, and a facility and budget questionnaire.
Series consists of various reports produced by or related to the Department of Athletics and Recreation. Activities and topics documented include departmental reviews; relations of SFU with the Canadian Intercollegiate Athletic Union and the Canada West University Athletic Association; the academic performance of SFU athletes; and athletics in Canadian universities. Predominant document types include reports and supporting documentation such as correspondence, press clippings, and government publications.
Series consists of records related to a number of committees established to review issues affecting the activities of Athletics and Recreation. These committees include the Visiting Committee on Athletics; the Student Affairs Committee; the Athletic Review Committee; the Athletics and Recreational Advisory Committee; and the Committee on Secondary Physical Education. Predominant document types include correspondence, agendas and minutes, reports, and tabled supporting documentation.
Series consists of records related to the operation of the intercollegiate athletics program. Activities and topics documented include general operations and concerns; operations of the sports teams comprising the intercollegiate program; and the granting of athletic awards and honours.
Subseries consists of records related to the general operation of the intercollegiate athletics program. Activities and topics documented include booster club organization and fundraising; coaching duties and responsibilities; the establishment of and participation in the Evergreen Conference; budgetary allocations; athlete grade analysis; and academic counseling. Predominant document types include correspondence, travel itineraries, schedules, minutes, membership lists, athlete lists, constitutions, reports, proposals, study skills handouts, grade point average statistics, and an athletic survey.
Subseries consists of records related to the operation of the men's and women's intercollegiate basketball program. Activities and topics documented include the recording of team statistics and records; travel; liaison with the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics and member universities; and outreach to the local community. Predominant document types include correspondence, rosters, schedules, travel itineraries, statistics, press clippings, news releases, programs (game and season), press guides, and newsletters.
Subseries consists of records related to the operation of the men's intercollegiate football program. Activities and topics documented include the recording of team statistics and records; travel; liaison with the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics, the Columbia Football League, and member universities; relations with the Canadian Intercollegiate Athletics Union and the Canada West University Athletic Association; relations with the Canadian Football League; operations of the Clan Alumni Club; and the staging of the annual Shrum Bowl. Predominant document types include correspondence, minutes, rosters, schedules, travel itineraries, statistics, press clippings, news releases, programs (game and season), press guides, and newsletters.
Subseries consists of records related to the operation of the men's and women's intercollegiate soccer program. Activities and topics documented include the early history of the team as a recreational club; the recording of team statistics and records; travel, liaison with the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics and member universities; and relations with the North American Soccer League. Predominant document types include correspondence, rosters, schedules, travel itineraries, statistics, press clippings, news releases, programs (game and season), press guides, and newsletters.
Subseries consists of records related to the operation of the men's and women's swimming and diving program. Activities and topics documented include the recording of swim meet results and records; travel; and liaison with the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics and member universities. Predominant document types include correspondence, rosters, schedules, travel itineraries, statistics, press clippings, news releases, programs (meet and season), and newsletters.
Subseries consists of records related to the operation of the men's and women's intercollegiate track and field program. Activities and topics documented include the recording of track and field meet results and records; travel; and liaison with the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics and member universities. Predominant document types include correspondence, rosters, schedules, travel itineraries, statistics, press clippings, news releases, and programs (meet and season).
Subseries consists of records related to the operation of the field hockey, golf, hockey, lacrosse, parachuting, rowing, skiing, volleyball, and wrestling teams. Activities and topics documented include the recording of team statistics and records; travel; and liaison with the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics and member universities. Predominant document types include correspondence, rosters, schedules, travel itineraries, statistics, press clippings, news releases, and programs (game/meet and season).
Subseries consists of records related to the granting of athletic awards and honours. Activities and topics documented include the establishment of athletic awards and guidelines for their disbursement; budgetary allocations; athlete of the month/year honours; and the annual Awards Banquet and the Sports Hall of Fame Banquet. Predominant document types include correspondence, Board of Governors reports, award application forms, award disbursement guidelines, budget material, photographs, player profiles, banquet agendas and programs, invitation lists, lists of award winners; receipts, news releases, and newsletters.
Series consists of records related to the operations of recreational clubs. Activities and topics documented include the establishment of general club guidelines; objectives of the Athletic Clubs Council; and operations of the cricket, rugby, sailing, skiing, and soccer clubs. Predominant document types include correspondence, handbooks, statements of objectives, minutes, press clippings, rosters, schedules, club histories and statistics, photographs, news bulletins, rule books, and reports.
Series consists of team schedules for both the intercollegiate athletic and recreation programs. Information recorded on the schedules include date of games/meets, opponents, host cities, and start times.
Series consists of records related to the operation of both athletic and recreation workshops and courses. Activities and topics documented include sports clinics; the establishment of a coaching specialist program; government fitness and training centres; the Task Force on Active Health Sciences and Leisure Studies; general education activity classes; the establishment of athletic credit courses; and sports camps and summer programs. Predominant document types include correspondence, clinic notes and handouts, reports, program postings, financial statements and recommendations, program rationales, course proposal forms, and course descriptions.
Series consists of records related to publications and publicity produced by the Departments of Athletics and Recreation. Activities and topics documented include the promotion of team events and achievements; and the advertising of workshop/course offerings and other departmental services. The predominant document types include news releases, sports publications and newsletters, press clippings, press guides, programs (game/event and season), posters, and yearbooks.
The Sports Information Office, reporting to the Director of Athletics, is responsible for implementing promotional activities; liaising with the media, the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics, and other sports information offices; and the recording of intercollegiate sport statistics and results. Series consists of records related to the operations of the Sports Information Office.
Subseries consists of records related to the general operations of the Sports Information Office. Activities and topics documented include athletic award proposals; athletic award banquets and the granting of other honours; departmental reviews; the Coaching Specialist Program; and the recruitment of student athletes. Predominant document types include correspondence, team schedules, proposals, reports, photographs, player profiles, statistics, banquet programs, and a recruiting book.
Subseries consists of records related to the operations of the various sports teams that comprise the intercollegiate athletic program. Activities and topics documented include the recording of team statistics and records; team travel; and liaison with the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics and member universities. Predominant document types include correspondence, rosters, schedules, travel itineraries, statistics, press clippings, news releases, programs (game/meet and season), and newsletters.
Subseries consists of records related to the publications and publicity of the intercollegiate athletics program. Activities and topics documented include the production of game and season programs and other informational publications; the tracking of media coverage of SFU teams; and the issuing of news releases. Predominant document types include news releases, press clippings, programs (game/event and season), press guides, and public relations and promotions guidelines.
Subseries consists of photographs. Activities and topics documented include participation of SFU teams in intercollegiate games and events; and team membership. Predominant document types include black & white and colour photographs of various sizes, negatives, and contact sheets.
Series consists of audio visual materials made or received by SFU Recreational Services and Athletics in the course of its activities and programs. The majority of the items relate to the games and practices of the SFU football, with some additional material relating to the SFU basketball team.
Sub-series consists of films relating to the SFU basketball program.
Series consists of films relating to the SFU men's football program. The majority of the items are silent amateur recordings of team games. Items 2 and 3, however, are kinescope film recordings of CBC productions relating to the first and second Shrum Bowl, the annual football game between SFU and UBC.
Episdoe of the CBC program Time Out for Football, a show that featured professional football with an emphasis on the BC Lions of the Canadian Football League. The episode of October 17, 1967 included a film feature that covered the first annual Shrum Bowl, a meeting between the football teams of SFU and UBC. The game took place on October 16, 1967 with SFU winning 32-13. The film includes the following shots (descriptions taken from the CBC catalogue entry): UBC campus B-Roll shots; interview with Gordon Shrum; shots in UBC Thunderbird locker room, players suiting up and voiceover comments from players about SFU; UBC players at practice with assistant coach voiceover comments and head coach Frank Gnup shots and voiceover comments; SFU players suiting up in their locker room and with player voiceover comments on UBC and the game; SFU team practice at Burnaby campus with voiceover comment from coaches, including head coach Lorne Davies. The game highlight package includes the opening kickoff by SFU player Dave Cutler; UBC opening drive; an SFU interception; UBC running gains and a second SFU interception; SFU quarterback Holmes scores a touchdown; UBC's Vic Iwata fumbles and SFU recovers; Iwata takes the opening kickoff of the second half; UBC's Bellamy runs back an interception; Hardy completes a UBC pass to Bellamy; SFU penalized for pass interference; UBC run for their first touchdown; Ron Ritchie makes a long punt return for a UBC touchdown. The game ends, Gordon Shrum presents the trophy to SFU. Ted Reynolds thanks cameramen Roy Luckow and Bob Reid as well as film editor Frank Irvine and Bob Smith ('Hot Air' host) script and narration. Reynolds responds to a viewer's question re: NFL vs. CFL football, and draws a name for a draw. The kinescope includes an animated Fred Asher "biography" of Stephen Leacock, and a public service announcement on allergies. Show concludes with Ted Reynolds on phone with BC Lions coach Jim Champion in Ottawa re: the injury situation with various Lions players and preps for the upcoming game against the Ottawa Rough Riders.
The second annual Shrum Bowl football game between SFU and UBC, played in Vancouver's Empire Stadium on October 21, 1968. Item was originally created by CBC as a kinescope film recording of a live television program. The game announcers were Jim Cox and Bob Smith.
Series consists of videos relating to the SFU men's football program. The majority of the videos are silent amateur recordings of team games.
Series consists of records relating to the general administrative activities of the editor and staff of West Coast Review. Topics documented include the establishment of the journal, liaison with writers, and efforts to secure funding through grants, advertising, and donors. Series consists primarily of correspondence.
Series consists of records relating to the publication of particular thematic issues of West Coast Review as well as general files relating to the printing of the journal. Includes correspondence, selected copies of West Coast Review, invoices, and a manuscript record book.
Fonds consists of records created, received and collected by Ellen Frank in her involvement in the women's movement in Vancouver. Activities documented include participation in the Association of University and College Employees (AUCE), the British Columbia Federation of Women (BCFW), the Solidarity Coalition, and activities relating to a number of other feminist organizations, issues, and actions. Includes correspondence, memoranda, minutes, agenda, reports, briefs, newsletters, press releases, notebooks, press clippings, project proposals, posters, and pamphlets.
Series consists of records relating to the Association of University and College Employees (AUCE) and the 1979 strike at Simon Fraser University. Includes news bulletins, press releases, notebooks, and press clippings.
Series consists of records of the British Columbia Federation of Women. The BCFW was an umbrella organization for women's groups in BC; its objective was to bring about women's liberation through fundamental social change. Includes project proposals, constitution, newsletters, minutes, regional reports, subcommittee reports, and correspondence. Also includes records relating to the Child-Care Interest Group and International Woman's Day.
Series consists of records relating to the Solidarity Coalition. The Solidarity Coalition was formed in 1983 by concerned British Columbians who opposed the restraint policies of the Social Credit government. Includes lists of steering committee members, correspondence, agenda, minutes, reports, briefs, memoranda, resolutions, proposals, presentations, papers and posters.
Series consists of files relating to a number of feminist organizations, actions, and issues with which Ellen Frank was involved. Files contain records on the Counselling Collective, Lesbians Against the Right, the Lesbian Caucus, the South Hill Childcare Society, Women Against Rape, and Women's Rally for Action. Includes correspondence, agendas, minutes, pamphlets, articles, newsletters, bulletins, and posters.
The fonds consists primarily of agendas, minutes and supporting papers from the various committees of Senate. In addition, the fonds contains a series of Registrar's Senate correspondence concerning administrative matters and a series of subject files kept by the Registrar on topics of interest to Senate. Finally, the fonds includes a series of Senate reference files compiled by previous Archives staff for informational purposes. Document types include agendas, minutes, supporting papers, correspondence, terms of reference, reports, briefs, proposals, policies, statistics, lists, publications, handbooks, drafts, notes, working papers and other documents. Note: The records of the full Senate (agendas, minutes and papers) are held by the Senate Secretariat; a vital records set of agendas, minutes and papers is held in archival storage and is not accessible. Researchers wishing to inspect Senate agendas, minutes and papers should consult the Senate Secretariat.
The Senate operates through a system of standing and ad hoc committees. As of 2003, there are 24 Senate committees, but the number of committees has varied over time. Senate determines the membership and method of appointing or electing members to the committees. Most Senate committees have ex-officio administrators as chairs and only a few have Vice-chairs. Standing committees with delegated responsibilities to perform duties on behalf of Senate usually report to Senate at yearly intervals. Temporary committees report to Senate by the date stated in the charge to the committee. This series consists of records relating to the meetings and activities of the various Senate Committees. Records include terms of reference; membership lists; and agendas, minutes, and supporting papers including correspondence, reports, briefs, course proposals, policies, statistics, lists, publications, drafts, notes, working papers and other documents.
This series consists of records relating to the general conduct of Senate business by the Registrar as Secretary of Senate. Activities, events and topics documented include setting agendas and meeting times, changes to minutes, preparation of supporting papers, transmittal of reports and other information to members of the University community, Senate elections, and Senate procedures. Records include correspondence, draft minutes with some detailed accounts of discussion, notes, reports, Senate supporting papers, lists of committee members, and committee terms of reference. Two files contain correspondence regarding the replacement of Senate committee members who were unable to complete their terms.
Series consists of records relating to various issues considered by Senate. Activities, events and topics documented include the Admissions Crisis of 1968, which resulted in a student sit-in to protest the lack of transfer credit standards. The Ellis Report, described in another file in this series, was the University's response to that crisis. Examples of other topics include the appointment of a Dean of Graduate Studies and the development of a Co-op Studies Program. Records include correspondence, Senate papers and minutes, reports, proposals, notes, and other documents.
Series consists of records collected by the staff of the University Archives to document the organization and functioning of the Senate over the years. While these files do not constitute the official records of Senate, they are useful for historical reference. Records include lists of Senate members and Senate committee members, Senate handbooks, compilations of Senate rules, and summaries and reports of Senate actions.
The fonds consists of five series. Series 1 contains material sent to Registrar Harry Evans from 1969-1970 regarding the crisis in the Department of Political Science Sociology, and Anthropology. Series 2 consists of five subject files concerning topics of interest to Registrars D.P. Robertson and Harry Evans. Series 3 contains records from the Academic Advice Centre. Series 4 contains records from Financial Aid. Series 5 contains publications produced by the Registrar's Office. Records include correspondence, press releases, newspapers, committee lists and terms of reference, minutes, reports, statistics, policies, organization charts, manuals, notes, and other documents. Also includes registrar's publications, such as admissions information booklets, timetables, and calendars.
Records include correspondence, press releases, newspapers, and other materials.
Series consists of records relating to topics of interest to the Registrar and the administration of the registrar's office. Examples of files nclude a history of the Registrar's Office and an external review. Records include committee lists and terms of reference, correspondence, minutes, reports, statistics and other documents.
This series consists of records relating to the organization, functions and activities of the Academic Advice Centre. Activities, events and topics documented include the history of the Centre, the deveopment of advising policies, and the appointment of student and faculty advisors. Records include correspondence, reports, statistics, minutes, policies, organization charts, manuals, lists, notes, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the delivery of scholarships, bursaries, and other forms of financial aid to undergraduate and graduate students. Records include policies, procedures, proposals, correspondence, lists of award candidates and winners, statistics, and other documents.
Series consists of publications produced by the Office of the Registrar.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the admission of students to SFU. Records include admission brochures and documents describing admission requirements.
Short marketing/promotion piece about SFU created for the Office of Admissions. General information about SFU: "the people, the location, the faculty and the buildings."
Sub-series consists of pre-registration handbooks, timetables, and registration instructions.
Sub-series consists of catalogues for the Harbour Centre campus of SFU.
Sub-series consists of internal newsletters published by the Registrar's Office.
Sub-series consists of academic calendars published in print form by the university for each academic year. The sub-series represents a complete run of all print editions, from SFU's first academic year (1965-66) to the final year for which a print edition was produced (2009-10). From 1965-66 until 1981-82, SFU produced separate calendars for undergraduate and graduate studies. The format changed in 1982-83, with a single calendar covering both undergraduate and graduate programs. The calendar continued in this format until 2010, when the university discontinued the print edition. Since that time, SFU maintains the calendar as a web-based product only. At the present time of writing (October 2017), the digital records for the calendar from 2010 onwards remain in the custody and control of Registrar's Office / Student Services. In 2015, the Archives digitized a complete set of the calendars. This sub-series includes both the print editions and digitized copies.
The fonds consists of records relating to the administration of the Office of the Vice-President, Research. Activities, topics and events documented include correspondence with university departments, research centres and institutes, and members of the larger university community on research-related topics; liaison with the local and national research industry and the government; reports on SFU-based research projects and initiatives; and financial records including budget reports and grant applications. Also included are records of the Vice-President's involvement on university, industry and government committees. The fonds also has records relating to Bruce Clayman's term as both the Vice-President, Research and Dean of Graduate Studies. The types of documents include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers; correspondence and reports; annual reports; budgets and financial working papers; contracts; and publications including newsletters, posters, brochures and directories.
Series consists of administrative correspondence between the Vice-President, Research and university departments on research-related issues, policy development, and proposals; local companies and international research organizations; and government ministries. Also included are Bruce Clayman's correspondence records when he held the joint position of Vice-President, Research/Dean of Graduate Studies. Document types include correspondence and working papers, reports, minutes, and publications.
Series consists of records relating to Bruce Clayman's dual appointment as Vice-President, Research and Dean of Graduate Studies. Records include general graduate studies program correspondence and specific correspondence on VISA students, graduate studies budget planning, tuition fees, and departmental review. Records also include Clayman's involvement on the Graduate Issues Committee, the Western Canadian Deans of Graduate Studies, and the Graduate Survey Implementation Task Force. Document types include correspondence and working papers, minutes, reports and financial working papers.
Series consists of records relating to correspondence between the Vice-President, Research and companies in the local and international research industry field. For a list of these companies, please see access points below. Document types include correspondence and working papers, reports, and publications.
Series consists of records relating to correspondence between the Vice-President, Research and government agencies regarding support and promotion of research. For a list of these agencies, please see access points below. Document types include correspondence, working papers, and reports.
Series consists of records of the Vice-President, Research relating to budget development, research fellowships and grants including the W.A.C. Bennett Fund, the Macmillan Family Fund, and the R.H. Wright Olfactory Prize. Records also include correspondence with the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC), the National Research Council, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC). Document types include correspondence, working papers, financial statistics, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to research centres and institutes formed by SFU researchers, or operated under partnership with SFU, that reported to the Vice-President, Research. Some of the centres and institutes have been disbanded due to inactivity. For a list of all centres and institutes, see the list of access points below. Document types include correspondence, working papers, budgets, policies and procedures, and reports.
Series consists of records relating to research projects and initiatives including liaison with the Tri-University Meson Facility (TRIUMF) and other external organizations on research projects, securing funding and establishing Research Chairs, and adjudicating project proposals. Document types include correspondence and working papers, reports, budgets and contracts.
Series consists of records relating to the participation of the Vice-President, Research on various SFU and non-SFU committees. For a complete list of committees see the sub-series descriptions. Document types include correspondence, working papers, agendas and minutes, reports and publications.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the participation of the Vice-President, Research on university committees.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the participation of the Vice-President, Research on non-university committees as a representative for Simon Fraser University.
Series consists of publications produced by the Office of the Vice-President, Research. Records include a directory of SFU research institutes and centres, promotional books on SFU's research accomplishments, circulars, grant writing workshop posters, and bi-monthly newsletters reporting on research updates.
The fonds of the Department of Economics consists of records created and received in the course of the administration of the department and the carrying out of its functions of providing instruction and promoting research. The activities documented include policy and procedures development; the planning, initiation and administration of curricula and programs; departmental and faculty meetings; faculty salary, appointment, promotion and tenure deliberations; departmental reviews; and the publication of reports. The types of documents include meeting agenda and minutes, correspondence, course outlines and examinations, case files, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of records generated in the development of Department policies and procedures. It includes memoranda, policies and procedures.
Series consists of correspondence received and sent by the Department Chair. It includes memoranda and reports.
Series consists of records related to the appointment, salary, and tenure of faculty members, as well as research grants. It includes correspondence, curricula vitae, memoranda and reports.
Series consists of the records of various departmental committees. It includes circulars, correspondence, minutes of meetings, and memoranda.
Series consists of departmental files relating to the Articulation Committee and University Review Committee of the Faculty of Arts. Series includes memoranda, minutes, and correspondence.
Series consists of materials relating to external and faculty reviews of the Department. It includes correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Series consists of files of undergraduate and graduate course outlines and examinations.
Series consists of newsletters of the Department of Economics and Commerce and the School of Business Administration and Economics.
The fonds consists of records made or received by the Art Gallery in the process of carrying out is functions. Activities and events documented include the evolution of the Gallery's structure, functions and governance; management of the Gallery's budget; deliberations of advisory committees; correspondence of the director with other university departments and the community; and the production of numerous art exhibitions. Records include correspondence, reports, agendas, minutes, budget summaries, exhibition programs and flyers, lists and forms relating to exhibitions, news clippings, and other documents.
Series consists of 13 files created by Nikki Sones relating to the evolution of the gallery and its programs. Records include correspondence, agendas, minutes, reports, budget summaries, news clippings, interview transcripts and audio cassettes.
Item is an interview of J.W. Felter by N. Gelbrandt, Research Assistant, on the history of the Gallery and its collection.
Item is an interview of Grant Strate by N. Gelbrandt, Research Assistant, on the history of the Gallery and its collection.
Series consists primarily of records relating to the meetings and deliberations of the President's Works of Art Committee and its successor, the Simon Fraser Gallery Board. Records include agendas, minutes, supporting papers, and correspondence.
Series consists primarily of the Art Gallery's annual reports from 1974 through 1983 written by James Warren Felter to describe the activities of the Gallery for those time periods. Series also contains two earlier reports—one describing the activities of the entire Centre for Communications and the Arts and the other, an early proposal by Felter regarding the future direction of the Gallery.
Series consists of correspondence relating to the duties of the Art Gallery director. Activities, events and topics documented include the planning and production of art exhibitions at SFU, the production of circulating exhibitions, the acquisition of art work for the Simon Fraser Collection, the provision of gallery space, applying for grants, and liaising with other University deparments and the community.
Series consists of records relating to the production of in-house and travelling exhibitions. Records include correspondence, flyers, programs, statistics and other documents.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the general production of exhibitions. Activities, events and topics documented include attendance statistics, visitors' comments, and exhibition planning. Records include statistics, comment sheets, flyers, invitations, schedules, newsclippings, budget summaries, correspondence, and other documents.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the production of individual art exhibitions. Records include programs, flyers, correspondence, budget statements, visitors' comments, lists of art works, price lists, notes, working papers, and posters.
Exhibition ran from June 16 - July 4, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 18-21, 1969.
Exhibition took place in Jan. 1969.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 13-31, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 17 - Mar. 14, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 17 - 28, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 9 - 23, 1969.
Exhibition took place between May 19 - June 19, 1969.
Exhibition took place between June 2-6, 1969.
Exhibition took place between June 9 - July 4, 1969.
Exhibition took place between July 7 - Aug. 1, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 7 - 18, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 21 - 28, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 24 - Dec. 13, 1969.
Exhibition took place between June 23 - July 18, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 7-28, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 4-21, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 24 - Dec. 12, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 4-21, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 7-18, 1969.
Exhibition took place between Summer 1970.
Exhibition took place between Winter 1970.
Exhibition took place between Fall - Sept. 2-18, 1970.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 1970.
Exhibition took place between May 12-29, 1970.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 2 - Mar. 20, 1970.
Includes 19 photographs (black and white).
Exhibition took place between Jan. 24 - Feb. 5, 1970.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 31 - Apr. 17, 1970.
Exhibition took place between July 14-25; July 26- Aug. 7, 1970.
Exhibition took place between May 12-22, 1970.
Exhibition took place between May 26 - June 12, 1970.
Exhibition took place between Fall 1970.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 24 - Dec. 18, 1970. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 22 - Oct. 9, 1970.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 12-30, 1970.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 2-20, 1970. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 2-18, 1970.
Exhibition took place between Spring 1971.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 11 - Feb. 12, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 16 - Mar. 5, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 9-26, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 30 - Apr. 16, 1971.
Exhibition took place between June 8 - July 2, 1971.
Exhibition took place between July 6-30, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 7-24, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 13 - Oct. 3, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 28 - Oct. 15, 1971. Includes 6 contact sheets and 9 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 19 - Nov. 8, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 10-26, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 30 - Dec. 17, 1971.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 11-28, 1972.
Exhibition took place between Spring 1972.
Exhibition took place between Summer and Fall 1972.
Exhibition took place between June 6-30, 1972. Includes 3 negatives: b&w ; 10 x 12.5 cm.
Exhibition took place between July 4 - Aug. 4, 1972.
Exhibition took place between Fall 1972.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 5-12, 1972. Includes 1 photographic print.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 26 - Oct. 13, 1972.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 17 - Nov. 3, 1972.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 7-17, 1972.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 21 - Dec. 8, 1972.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 9-26, 1973.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 30- Feb. 16, 1973. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 20- Mar. 16, 1973. Includes 8 slides.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 20 - Apr. 16, 1973.
Exhibition took place between May 8 - June 1, 1973. Includes 6 photographs.
Exhibition took place between June 5-29, 1973. Includes 1 contact sheet, 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between July 3 - Aug. 12, 1973.
Exhibition took place between July 31 - Aug. 1973. Includes 10 negatives.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 11-28, 1973. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 2-26, 1973.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 30 - Nov. 16, 1973.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 20 - Dec. 7, 1973.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 27, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 8 - Feb. 1, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 5-22, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 226 - Mar. 15, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 15 - Apr. 5, 1974.
Exhibition took place between May 7-31, 1974.
Exhibition took place between June 4-26, 1974.
Exhibition took place between July 2 - Aug. 2, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 1-25, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 1 - Nov. 15, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 1 - Nov. 15, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 19 - Dec. 6, 1974.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 7-24, 1975.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 28 - Feb. 14, 1975.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 18 - Mar. 14, 1975.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 18 - Apr. 4, 1975. Includes 4 contact sheets.
Exhibition took place between May 13 - June 6, 1975. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between June 11 - July 6, 1975.
Exhibition took place between July 9 - Aug. 10, 1975.
Exhibition took place between Aug. 13-29, 1975.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 10-26, 1975.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 1-17, 1975.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 22 - Nov. 7, 1975.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 13 - Dec. 5, 1975.
Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 5-23, 1976. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 28 - Feb. 13, 1976.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 18 - Mar. 5, 1976. Includes 6 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 10-26, 1976. Includes 3 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 11 - Apr. 23, 1976.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 29 - May 14, 1976. Includes 2 contact sheets and 3 photographs.
Exhibition took place between May 17 - June 27, 1976.
Exhibition took place between July 5-23, 1976. Includes 2 contact sheets and 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between July 28 - Aug. 27, 1976. Includes 22 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 7 - Oct. 1, 1976. Includes 1 photo.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 12 - Nov. 5, 1976.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 15 - Dec. 10, 1976. Includes 3 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 2-25, 1977.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 10-28, 1977.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 2-25, 1977.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 7-25, 1977. Includes 11 photographs and 2 contact sheets.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 6-29, 1977.
Exhibition took place between May 4 - June 10, 1977.
Exhibition took place between June 20 - July 8, 1977. Includes 1 contact sheet.
Exhibition took place between July 18 - Aug. 5, 1977. Includes 1 contact sheet.
Exhibition took place between Aug. 15 - Sept. 9, 1977.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 19 - Oct. 7, 1977. Includes 1 contact sheet.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 17 - Nov. 4, 1977.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 14 - Dec. 2, 1977. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 9- 27, 1978. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 6- 24, 1978.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 6- 31, 1978.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 10- 30, 1978.
Exhibition took place between May 8-26, 1978.
Exhibition took place between June 5-30, 1978. Includes 6 photographs.
Exhibition took place between July 10-28, 1978.
Exhibition took place between Aug. 7-18, 1978.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 11-29, 1978. 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Aug. 2 - Sept. 29, 1978. Includes 3 contact sheets.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 27, 1978.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 6-24, 1978.
Exhibition took place between Dec. 4-22, 1978.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 8-26, 1979.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 7-23, 1979. Includes 3 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 9 - May 11, 1979.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 5-30, 1979.
Exhibition took place between June 18 - July 13, 1979.
Exhibition took place between July 23 - Aug. 17, 1979.
Exhibition took place between Aug 27 - Sept. 21, 1979.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 1-26, 1979.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 5-23, 1979.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 7-25, 1980. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 4-22, 1980.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 5-30, 1980.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 8 - May 2, 1980. Includes 20 photos and 30 negatives.
Exhibition took place between May 18 - Aug. 8, 1980. Includes 17 photos and 1 contact sheet.
Exhibition took place between May 12 - June 13, 1980.
Exhibition took place between June 23 - July 11, 1980.
Exhibition took place between July 13, 1980.
Exhibition took place between July 12 - Aug. 15, 1980.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 8 - Oct. 3, 1980.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 24-26, 1980.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 13 - Oct. 10, 1980. Includes 37 slides.
Includes 22 negatives, 2 photos, 1 contact sheet.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 10 - Nov. 2, 1980.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 10 - Dec. 5, 1980.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 5-30, 1981. Includes 58 slides, 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 9-27, 1981.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 9-27, 1981.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 23 - May 3, 1981.
Exhibition took place between May 11 - June 5, 1981. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between June 15 - July 17, 1981.
Exhibition took place between July 20 - Aug. 14, 1981. Includes 6 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 7-25, 1981.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 5-23, 1981.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 24, 1981. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 2-20, 1981. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 20 - Dec. 18, 1981.
Exhibition took place between Fall 1981, Spring 1982.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 11 - Feb. 5, 1982.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 8-26, 1982.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 5-23, 1982.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 15 - Mar. 5, 1982.
Exhibition took place between May 17 - June 11, 1982.
Exhibition took place between June 10-11, 1982.
Exhibition took place between June 14 - July 9, 1982. Includes 4 photographs.
Exhibition took place between July 19 - Aug. 13, 1982. Includes 2 photographs and 5 slides.
Exhibition took place between July 19 - Aug. 13, 1982. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between July 19 - Aug. 13, 1982.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 7-24, 1982. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 29, 1982.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 4-22, 1982. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 1-19, 1982. Includes 1 negative and 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 29 - Dec. 17, 1982. Includes 9 photographs and 1 negative.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 10-28, 1983. Includes 3 photographs and 2 negatives.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 7-25, 1983.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 12-24, 1983.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 7-25, 1983.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 1 - May 6, 1983.
Exhibition took place between May 16 - June 10, 1983. Includes 6 photographs.
Exhibition took place between June 13-30, 1983. Includes 1 photograph and 1 negative.
Exhibition took place between July 11 - Aug. 5, 1983. Includes 12 negatives, 1 contact sheet, and 3 photographic prints.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 6-23, 1983.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 3-21, 1983.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 3, 1983.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 31 - Nov. 18, 1983.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 28 - Dec. 16, 1983.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 9-27, 1984. Includes 1 negative and 4 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 31 - Feb. 1, 1984.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 6-24, 1984.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 5-23, 1984. Includes 19 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 26 - Apr. 9, 1984.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 2-20, 1984.
Exhibition took place between May 7-25, 1984.
Exhibition took place between June 4-22, 1984. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between July 3-20, 1984.
Exhibition took place between July 30 - Aug. 17, 1984.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 4-21, 1984. Includes 2 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 22 - Nov. 16, 1984.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 26 - Dec. 14, 1984.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 7 - Feb. 1, 1985.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 11 - Mar. 1, 1985.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 11-29, 1985.
Exhibition took place between Apr. 8 - May 2, 1985. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between May 13-31, 1985.
Exhibition took place between June 10 - Aug. 9, 1985.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 9 - Oct. 4, 1985.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 14 - Nov. 1, 1985.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 12 - Dec. 13, 1985. Includes 3 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 13-31, 1986. Includes 14 photographs, 11 negatives, and 1 contact sheet.
Exhibition took place between Feb. 10-28, 1986.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 10-27, 1986.
Exhibition took place between May 9-30, 1986.
Exhibition took place between June 9-27, 1986. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between June 9-27, 1986. Includes 1 photograph and 8 slides.
Exhibition took place between July 5-25, 1986. Includes 3 photographs.
Exhibition took place between Aug. 5-29, 1986. Includes 20 slides.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 2-12, 1986.
Exhibition took place between Sept. 22 - Oct. 2, 1986.
Exhibition took place between Oct. 14 - Nov. 7, 1986.
Exhibition took place between Nov. 17-Dec.12, 1986.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 26 - Feb. 13, 1987.
Exhibition took place between Jan. 5-23, 1987.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 2-6, 1987.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 9 - Apr. 3, 1987.
Exhibition took place between Mar. 2-6, 1987.
Exhibition took place between May 14-15, 1987. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between May 20 - June 10, 1987. Includes 1 photograph.
Exhibition took place between June 22 - July 10, 1987. Includes 8 photographs.
Fonds consists of records relating to University ceremonies created by the Office of Ceremonies since 1982, and before that time, by the Registrar's Office and the President's Office. Activities and topics documented include the opening ceremonies for SFU in 1965, convocations, awards ceremonies, building and room openings and dedications, donor recognition events, staff recognition events, installations of presidents and chancellors, university anniversaries, and other special ceremonies. Records include programs, books of words (order of proceedings), invitations, guest lists, correspondence, notes, press clippings, news releases, publications, photographic material, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the opening ceremonies of Simon Fraser University on September 9, 1965. Activities documented include the planning of the ceremonies. Records include programs, correspondence, notes, news clippings, publications, sheet music, charter student certificate, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the installation of the Presidents and Chancellors of SFU including Patrick Mc-Taggart Cowan as President and Gordon Shrum as Chancellor (1965); Pauline Jewett as President (1974) and William Saywell as President (1983). Records include programs, invitations, guest lists, books of words (order of proceedings), timetables, correspondence, notes, publications, press releases, news clippings, speeches, minutes, photographs, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the convocation ceremonies held at SFU to award undergraduate, graduate, and honorary degrees. Records include Convocation booklet, programs, invitations, guest lists, books of words (order of proceedings), timetables, correspondence, notes, publications, press releases, news clippings, speeches, and other documents. Note that files from 1990s onwards contain fewer document types, often only the Convocation booklet and book of words; and from 2006 only the Convocation booklet. The format of the booklet changed little from 1967 to 2005. Since ca. 2006, the booklet has been produced by Communication Services, a unit of Student Services (the Spring 2006 booklet is the first to credit Student Services).
Due to COVID-19, SFU did not hold an in-person Convocation ceremony for Spring 2020.
Due to COVID-19, SFU did not hold an in-person Convocation ceremony for Fall 2020. In addition to the Convocation book, this file includes the package of materials students were sent, including pins, a cap and box.
Due to COVID-19, SFU did not hold an in-person Convocation for Spring 2021.
Series consists of records relating to a variety of ceremonies and events organized by the Ceremonies Office. Activities documented include dinners, receptions, memorial services, exhibitions and other special occasions held to honor students, staff, faculty, alumni, and distinguished visitors. Records include programs, invitations, guest lists, books of words (order of proceedings), correspondence, notes, publications, brochures, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the production of the annual Awards Ceremony and the Honour Roll Reception. Records include programs, books of words correspondence, publications, advisory committee minutes and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the opening, naming and dedication of buildings and facilities at the Burnaby campus, and the openings of the Faculties of Business Administration and Engineering Science. Records include invitations, guest lists, programs, books of words (order of proceedings), correspondence, news releases, publications, photographs, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the opening of the Harbour Centre Campus. Activities documented include the planning and production of the official opening ceremonies, celebration dinner, faculty and staff reception, and public open house, as well as the openings, dedications, and namings of individual rooms and facilities within Harbour Centre. Records include invitations, guest lists, programs, books of words (order of proceedings), correspondence, news releases, publications, briefing notes, photographs, and other documents.
Series consists of records relating to the celebration of SFU's 10th, 20th and 25th anniversaries. Activities documented include receptions, dinners, and a Convocation Mall celebration. Records include guest lists, invitations, programs, memorabilia, correspondence, proposals, publications, and other documents.
Series consists of four banners used during SFU's fourtieth anniversary celebrations.
The fonds consists of records relating to the activities of the School and its predecessors. Activities and events documented include the evolution of the department's structure, functions and governance; deliberation of School committees; correspondence of the Chair with staff, faculty, other university departments and external organizations; departmental research projects, proposals, and grant applications; curriculum development files and course files; and publications. Records include correspondence and reports; meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers; policies and procedures; course proposals and outlines, lecture notes and planning materials; conference photograph negatives; course guides, newsletters and annual reports (1993-1994).
Series consists of records relating to the evolution of the School, its internal organization, mandate and scope of activities, and departmental planning. Activities, events and topics documented include reorganization as part of the faculty of Applied Sciences in 1985, departmental review, an update on alumni and departmental open house, and planning for Homecoming '90. Records include correspondence; reports; proposals; planning documents; notes and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to meetings and deliberations of departmental, faculty and university-wide committees in which the School participated. Series includes departmental meetings, committees responsible for departmental hiring, curriculum development, and undergraduate and graduate studies. Also included are records for the Faculty of Applied Science Executive committee, President's Advisory Committee on University Priorities, Downtown Campus Planning, and the Labour Program Advisory committee. Records include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting documents; correspondence; reports; policies and procedures; program and course proposals and revisions; and working papers. Note that in the case of departmental committees, the files constitute the original, authoritative records of those committees. In the case of non-departmental committees (faculty and university), however, the School did not typically function as the official record-keeper or custodian of the committee's original records; accordingly, these files document the School's participation in the committees (correspondence and copies of committee records) rather than representing the authoritative record of those committees.
Series consists of records relating to the Chair's/Director's correspondence with School program areas and faculty, other university departments and external (non-university) individuals and organizations. Activities, events and topics documented include policy development, faculty and student relations, reference letters, graduate student review, facilities and space planning in the West Mall Complex, collaboration with other university departments and research and consulting for external organizations. Records include correspondence; reports; notices; letters; invoices; newsletters; proposals; and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to research projects, proposals and grant applications prepared by faculty members during the course of university-wide, national and international research on communication. Project topics include Media Analysis, Image / Sound Research Centre, Laboratory for Computer and Communications Research, conferences, communication databases, the Telecommunications Research Group and the Radio Spectrum Project. Grant applications include those sent to the President's Research Fund, SSHRCC and NSERC. Records include application forms; proposals; correspondence; reports; faculty curriculum vitae; working papers; financial budgets; statistics; contracts and agreements.
Series consists of records relating to the credit and non-credit instruction offered by the School and its predecessors, including new course proposals, curriculum rationalization and scheduling, grading, reading lists, assignment and essay questions, lecture schedules and outlines, examinations, cross-listed courses with other departments, guest lecture series, graduate level colloquiums, directed studies proposals, continuing studies courses offered downtown, and the Ph.D. program proposal. Records include correspondence; reports; course files; working papers; and policies. Some teaching material has been retained (e.g. glossaries, lecture notes), but reprints of articles have not been preserved. The sub-series on "Course files" does not include course administrative records (e.g. enrollment lists, book requisition forms, grade change forms, registration status reports, waiting lists, add/drop form, lab fee notices). Note that record types found in the files vary considerably from course to course.
Series consists of publications created by the School and its predecessors. Material includes "CMNS news," the departmental newsletter; annual reports; and course outline booklets.
The fonds consists of records relating to the activities of the School and its predecessors. Activities and events documented include the evolution of the School's structure, functions and governance; deliberation of committees; correspondence of the Director with staff, faculty, university departments and external organizations; grants, scholarships, and research projects; computing laboratories and facility files; curriculum development and course files. Records include budget and financial working papers; correspondence and reports; meeting agendas, minutes and supporting papers; policies and procedures; course proposals and outlines; lecture notes and planning materials; and publications including course guides, brochures, student society newsletters and annual reports.
Series consists of records relating to the evolution of the School, its internal organization and mandate, scope of activities, and reorganization as part of the Faculty of Applied Science in 1985. Activities, events and topics documented include program planning in the early 1970's, departmental profile and formal review. Records include correspondence, reports, planning documents, notes and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the administration of the School office and management of relations with non-academic employees. Activities, events and topics documented include capital budget planning; search for School chairman; enrollment and registration issues; fundraising; faculty workshops and retreats; the appointment of Teaching Assistants and Sessional Instructors; space requirements and the move to the Applied Sciences Building. Records include budgets, correspondence and reports, capital equipment requests, planning documents, notes and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to meetings and deliberations of departmental, faculty, university, and external committees in which faculty or representatives from Computing Science participated. Departmental activities, events and topics documented include meetings; faculty search, hiring, and tenure deliberations; computing facilities; curriculum development; undergraduate and graduate programs; and hardware and software acquisition. Faculty records include minutes of the Faculty of Applied Science Executive Committee and the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies Executive Committee. University-wide records consist of minutes and papers from committees such as academic planning, computer policy and planning, and research policy. External committee records include minutes and papers of the British Columbia Computers in Education Committee and the Canadian Computer Science Department Chairmen Committee. Records include meeting agendas, minutes and supporting documents; correspondence; reports; policies and procedures; program revisions and course proposals; and working papers. Note that in the case of departmental committees, the files constitute the original, authoritative records of those committees. In the case of non-departmental committees (faculty, university and external), however, the School did not typically function as the official record-keeper or custodian of the committee's original records. Accordingly, these files document the School's participation in the committees (correspondence and copies of committee records) rather than representing the authoritative record of those committees.
Series consists of records relating to the Chair's/Director's correspondence with school program areas and faculty, other university programs, and external (non-university) individuals and organizations. Activities, events and topics documented include technical reports, graduate and undergraduate curriculum development, Faculty Association meetings and case files, interdisciplinary program development with other faculties, SFU's Speaker's Bureau, Student Society, involvement with professional organizations, and Ted Sterling's cancer research. Records include correspondence, reports, notices, letters, budgets, proposals and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to grants, scholarships and awards prepared or received by faculty members during the course of university-wide, national and international research. Included are funding applications for Simon Fraser University President's Research Grant Stipend, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC), Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) and the Science Council of British Columbia. Noted research projects include the Canadian Society for Fifth Generation Research; proposal for a National Microelectronics Facility; a joint proposal by Computing Science, Engineering Science and the Physics Department; and planning for a site visit to SFU by NSERC. Records include grant application forms and policies, proposals, financial budgets, correspondence, reports, minutes, faculty curriculum vitae, working papers, statistics, contracts and agreements.
Series consists of records relating to the establishment and operation of computing laboratories and other facilities used by students and faculty for research and coursework completion. Activities, events and topics documented include the Centre for Systems Science (CSS), the Computer Graphic Centre, the Computing Centre, and the proposal for a remote academic terminal. Also included are records on the Computer Assisted Instruction Centre (CAI), Computing Science Instruction Lab (CSIL), and the Laboratory for Computing and Communications Research (LCCR). Records include correspondence, reports, course files, policies and proposals, and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to credit and non-credit instruction offered by the School and its predecessors. Activities, events and topics documented include the evaluation of courses, new course proposals, curriculum rationalization and scheduling, development of Continuing Education courses, cross-listed courses with other departments, Programs of Distinction, Programs of Excellence, seminar and colloquium series, high school computer course development, the Summer Computing Institute, workshops, and the graduate and undergraduate program. Records include correspondence, reports, course files, working papers, policies, lecture schedules and outlines, reading lists, student self-study guides and handbooks, assignments and essay questions, final exams, directed studies proposals and teaching evaluation summaries. Some teaching material has been retained (e.g. glossaries, lecture notes), but reprints of articles have not been preserved. The sub-series on "Course files" does not include course administrative records (e.g. enrollment lists, book requisition forms, grade change forms, registration status reports, waiting lists, add/drop forms, lab fee notices). Note that record types found in the files vary considerably from course to course.
Series consists of publications created by the School and its predecessors. Material includes annual reports, Computing Science Student Society newsletters, course guides and brochures, graduate studies program guide and student handbook, and research overview report.
The fonds consists of records relating to the development and administration of the Continuing Studies program and its predecessors. Activities, topics and events documented include the Dean's correspondence with university departments, faculties, and external organizations; participation on university and inter-university committees on continuing education; development of credit and non-credit courses, programs, seminars, workshops, and conferences; and publications. The types of documents include meeting agendas, minutes, and supporting papers; correspondence and reports; annual reports; budgets and financial working papers; contracts; teaching and program evaluations; course outlines, proposals, and planning materials; and publications including course calendars, oversized posters, brochures, and journals. Also included are photographs, contact sheets and one artifact.
Series consists of records relating to the Dean's correspondence with campus and non-campus organizations. Activities, events and topics documented include dean's/director's meetings and reports; liaison with university departments and faculties regarding continuing education; television networks including KCTS/9, the Knowledge Network and CanWest Pacific Television; and development and administration of the Downtown Education Centre and SFU at Harbour Centre. Records include agendas and minutes, correspondence, annual reports, working papers and reports.
Series consists of records relating to the Dean's involvement on or liaison with various university and inter-university committees related to continuing studies/education. Records include agendas, minutes, correspondence, reports and working papers.
Series consists of records relating to the administration and development of university credit courses and programs offered by Continuing Studies. Records consist of correspondence and working papers, reports, student handbooks, course guides and oversized posters, budget and financial working papers, meeting minutes, statistics, course proposals, outlines and evaluations, contracts, and publications.
The Distance Education Program at SFU began in 1975 and has since grown to be one of the largest distance education programs in Canada. Working in partnership with academic departments, the Centre for Distance Education administers the program. Through directed independent study (correspondence) or online study students can complete courses leading to majors, minors, certificates, diplomas, and in the case of the Bachelor of General Studies, a full degree. As of 2005, more than one hundred university credit courses are offered per year. Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration and delivery of the Distance Education Program. Activities, events and topics documented include the operation of the Centre for Distance Education, liaison with departments regarding the Directed Independent Study program and correspondence courses, Knowledge Network telecourses, and administration of the South Pacific Nutrition Project. Records include correspondence, minutes, policies and procedures, student handbooks, budget and financial working papers, reports, and Knowledge Network telecourse guides and curriculum posters.
SFU's Downtown Campus Program had a modest beginning on February 22, 1980 with a small storefront location and a couple of rented classrooms at 822 Howe Street. Developed as an extension of the Burnaby campus evening programs, the downtown program was established to help SFU strengthen its community identity and recruit new students. A selection of extension credit courses and non-credit community education programs were offered to adult students who sought to complete or upgrade their existing university education. By 1981 growing enrollment numbers forced the program to move to a larger site at 849 Howe Street. Known as the Downtown Education Centre (DEC), the space was shared with BCIT who managed and coordinated the Centre through their Division of Continuing Education and Industry Services. Faculty from the Burnaby campus traveled downtown to teach at the Centre and brought in community professionals to assist them. In 1983 the Downtown Campus Planning Committee was struck by Senate to survey the downtown community and assist in the planning of proposed sites for a downtown campus. Downtown enrollment continued to grow and each year new programs were tested as administrators worked towards developing a curriculum that would be unique to a downtown campus. During this time a number of programs were created including the School for Liberal and Professional Studies, the City Program, the Fine Arts Program, the Writing Program and the Professional Management Studies Program. In 1989 the new downtown campus was opened in the remodeled historic Spencer Building on West Hastings Street. Since then, SFU at Harbour Centre has continued to expand its curriculum to the needs of the downtown community, offering courses in sciences, liberal arts, and applied, professional and interdisciplinary fields of study leading to certificates, diplomas, and undergraduate and graduate degrees. In addition, SFU at Harbour Centre hosts professional development seminars, short courses, conferences and lectures. Sub-series consists of records relating to the planning, development, and administration of the Downtown Campus Program and its successor, SFU at Harbour Centre. Activities, events and topics documented include downtown program proposals, budget development, student information packages, an invitation to the opening of the Downtown Program in 1980, student questionnaires, course schedules, Downtown Planning Committee meetings, and an engraved paperweight from SFU Harbour Center. Records include correspondence and working papers, minutes, statistics, reports, news releases, and financial working papers.
The Extension Credit Program began in 1973 as a result of a Senate motion delegating all responsibility for off-campus programs to Continuing Studies. The program provided educational opportunities for persons who could not attend day classes, but through evening, Intersession, or Summer Session courses could complete a degree, upgrade existing education or enhance personal academic interests. Professional programs were also offered to teachers through evening and summer classes. The opening of the downtown campus at Harbour Centre in 1989 enhanced the visibility of the Extension Credit Program as it offered courses aimed towards the advanced recurring educational needs of the business, professional and cultural communities in Vancouver's urban core. The Extension Credit Program remains active as of 2005 and allows students to obtain graduate degrees, post baccalaureate diplomas, and selected undergraduate certificates on a part time basis by day or evening study. Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration and development of the Extension Credit Program. Activities, events and topics documented include guidelines for developing an off-campus program, planning for courses offered at Britannia Community Centre, annual program reports, student questionnaires, policies and procedures development, and reports by the Senate Committee on Continuing Studies. Records include agendas and minutes, correspondence, working papers, statistics, reports, and course proposals.
The Gerontology Program was developed in 1982 with the establishment of the SSHRC funded Gerontology Research Centre (GRC). That same year the post-baccalaureate diploma in Gerontology was introduced and in 1983 the Department of Gerontology was formed to serve as the focal point for research, education and information on individual and population aging. Courses offered through the program address aging and the built environment, health promotion, and population health and aging. Students are trained in the critical analysis of the health care system and in the planning, design, research, and evaluation of working, living, and recreational environments for older persons. As of 2005, the program also offers a minor, masters and Ph.D. degree in Gerontology. Sub-series consists of records relating to the development, funding and administration of the Gerontology program. Activities, events and topics documented include history of the program, proposal for a post-baccalaureate Diploma in Gerontology, liaison with the Universities Council of British Columbia, workshop planning and conference proposals, SSHRC funding, and the opening of the Gerontology Centre in 1982. Records include correspondence, minutes, reports, contracts, course proposals, draft budgets and working papers.
The Interior and Non-Metropolitan program began in 1975 as a response to government concern that residents in interior regions of BC were excluded from university education. After a year of offering credit courses at non-metropolitan colleges, SFU began to formally develop a distance education program and initiated a three-year experimental program in Kelowna offering degree completion programs in Psychology and Biological Sciences. SFU's goal was to design a distance education program that would provide an opportunity for all persons in BC to complete a degree without the usual attendance at UBC, UVic or SFU. By this time UBC and UVic were also offering interior programs and together with SFU ensured that the courses offered by each institution did not overlap each other. SFU interior courses were developed by university faculty and delivered with the assistance of the Office of Continuing Studies. Under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education, the Interior University Programs Board approved courses and provided program funding from the provincial government. In 1978 the Interior Universities Programs Board was disbanded and replaced by the Open Learning Institute. The Open Learning Institute took responsibility for offering a bachelor of Arts and Science Program in cooperation with colleges, while universities remained responsible for offering professional programs. Throughout the late 1970s and early 1980s SFU initiated a number of programs that were delivered out of university centres in Kamloops, Kelowna, Prince George and Fort St. John. The Faculty of Education offered a variety of credit and non-credit programs and other departments developed courses in response to school district requests. Courses were taught through a combination of face-to-face instruction, directed independent study courses and via Knowledge Network telecourse programming. In 1984, the provincial government established the University Consortium to increase access to post-secondary distance education courses. The Open Learning Agency (formerly the Open Learning Institute) was selected to be the central administrative headquarters for the University Consortium. SFU, UBC and UVic were integrated into the new program as consortium partners, delivering courses and programs in cooperation with various educational institutions, professional associations, workplaces, and community organizations. As of 2005 SFU's relationship with the Open Learning Agency remains in place. Through the British Columbia Open University (BCOU), a division of the Open Learning Agency, students can register and take distance education courses delivered by SFU without having to be admitted to the university. Sub-series consists of records relating to the development and administration of the Interior and Non-Metropolitan Programs offered by SFU. Activities, events and topics documented include program development, the Interior University Program Board, SFU's Planning Committee on Interior Programming, administration of the Kelowna and Fraser Valley programs and budget planning. Records include agendas and minutes, program and course proposals, budget and financial working papers, correspondence, reports and working papers.
SFU launched the Prison Education Program (PEP) on April 1, 1984 after negotiating a three-year contract with the Federal Government to deliver a university program for male inmates at four penitentiaries - Kent, Mountain Head, Matsqui, and William Head/Metchosin. Assuming responsibility from the University of Victoria who had run the program for twelve years, PEP staff worked quickly to ensure a smooth administrative transition of the program and re-registration of the inmates as SFU students. The new program was assigned a dual home at SFU where all academic affairs of the program were administered through the Office of the Dean of Arts and a Steering Committee, and all administrative affairs of the program - including appointment of its Director, Stephen Duguid and its Program Coordinator, Henry Hoekema - were run under the guise of the Office of Continuing Studies. Teaching staff for Kent, Mountain Head and Matsqui institutions were recruited from SFU while faculty at William Head were drawn extensively from UVic. In the course of its duration, the Prison Education Program established a library program at each institution, administered GED (grade 12 equivalency) courses, and offered courses in the Liberal Arts leading to certificate, diploma and degree completion. The program also sponsored courses and workshops in Writing and the Fine and Performing Arts and had a transition program for paroled inmates who chose to complete their education at SFU's Burnaby campus. After a few short years, the program grew to be very successful, garnering support from other SFU departments, developing a network of contacts in the field of prison education, initiating a series of seminars and Occasional Papers, and regularly publishing the Prison Journal. Despite the program being cancelled in the early 1990's due to government cutbacks, SFU continues today to be recognized as a leader in the field of prison education. Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration and development of the Prison Education Program. Activities, events and topics documented include liaison with the federal government and SFU departments, library proposals, course scheduling, Library Technician meetings, recognition and awards ceremonies, the SFU Prison Education Newsletter, and copies of the serial Prison Journal. Records include agendas and minutes, annual reports, correspondence, working papers, contracts, course proposals and outlines, reports, statistics, budgets and financial reports, reference materials, and publications.
Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration of the SFU/Secwepemc Cultural Education Society Program. Activities, events and topics documented include program development, the SFU/SCES Joint Committee, and planning for the 10-year program anniversary in 1998. Records include correspondence, minutes, working papers, contracts, course outlines, budget and financial working papers, questionnaires, and publications.
The Certificate Program in Health and Fitness Studies was established in 1978 drawing largely upon the resources of the Department of Kinesiology. Developed for sport coaches, those supervising training and/or fitness programs, and the general public, the program provides an opportunity to complete a coordinated program of university study on a full or part time basis in the areas of health, fitness, and nutrition. In the program's early years, students could earn a certificate by completing a series of credit courses from Kinesiology, Chemistry, Psychology, and Fine and Performing Arts along with a series of scheduled non-credit activities organized to allow students to meet with faculty and professionals in the field. Credit from these courses could also be used towards a Bachelor's degree. The program has evolved with an emphasis on Kinesiology courses and as of 2005, continues to be offered as an undergraduate certificate by the School of Kinesiology in the Faculty of Applied Sciences. Sub-series consists of records relating to the administration of the Health and Fitness Studies Certificate program. Activities, events and topics documented include program and course development, correspondence with students, enrollment statistics, and program guidelines. Records include correspondence, working papers, program brochures, and statistics.
Series consists of records relating to the administration and development of non-credit courses and programs offered by the Office of Continuing Studies and sponsored by SFU's academic faculties, departments and schools. Records include correspondence; working papers; reports; budgets and financial working papers; course proposals, outlines and evaluations; agendas and minutes; program contracts; student binders; pamphlets; and photographs and contact sheets.
The Applied Science Continuing Education program has offered a series of non-credit certificate programs in the areas of Communication, Computing Science, Engineering, Kinesiology and Resource and Environmental Management since 1989. Courses, seminars, workshops, and conferences are developed as a result of faculty support and industry demand with changing technological needs often dictating course content. In the 1990s an autonomous Faculty of Applied Sciences Continuing Education Unit was created that reported directly to the Dean of the Faculty of Applied Sciences. However, the unit proved to be financially unsustainable so in 2002 it was downsized and its administrative control was returned to the Dean of Continuing Studies. Sub-series consists of records relating to the development and administration of the Applied Sciences Continuing Education program. Activities, events and topics documented include general programs offered in the Applied Science Continuing Education Program (including specifically designed in-house programs), computer programming and Internet courses; international programs on management techniques and cultural orientation; project management; and risk assessment and decision analysis for management of natural resources. Also documented are external programs sponsored by Applied Science Continuing Education such as The Institute for Government Informatics Professionals and The Technology Industries Association (TIA) Business Program. Records include correspondence, working papers, minutes, course outlines, program evaluations, contracts, and pamphlets.
In August 1988 the British Columbia Telephone Company entered into agreement with SFU for the delivery of a Certificate Program in Telecommunications Engineering. The specialized program, developed to upgrade the technical knowledge of BC Tel professional engineers in telecommunications technologies, was jointly run by SFU and the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) and managed by the Applied Sciences Program in Continuing Studies. Working in collaboration with the BC Tel Engineering Training Committee, Continuing Studies developed a series of eight, one-week extensive courses that covered topics such as communication systems, digital concepts, voice networks, communication standards and ISDN. Courses were made up of a combination of lectures, technical presentations, laboratories, and group activities. Each course had a coordinator rather than a single instructor and industry experts were brought in to give presentations. At the end of each session, courses were evaluated by participants and individuals outside of the BC Tel/SFU-UCLA group to ensure that participants acquired an in-depth understanding of changing technology and communication systems. Sub-series consists of records relating to the development and administration of the BC Tel Convergence course program. Activities, events and topics documented include BC Tel's initial request for proposal, course development, progress reports, instructors contracts and promotional materials sent out to BC Tel staff. Records include correspondence, working papers, reports, course outlines and evaluations, contracts, budgets and financial working papers, and pamphlets.
The Management Skills in Advanced Technology Program (MSAT) was established in 1986 after a series of development seminars with employers, managers, and engineers in science and technology-based industries identified the need for a management skills training program. The President's Fund provided a loan to the Applied Sciences Continuing Studies program in order to get to the program started and soon after its inception, it was recognized as an innovative program in professional development education winning a Canadian Association for University Continuing Education Distinctive Program Award in 1989. The design of the program has changed little since the development of core courses in the late 1980's that include Managing Technology, Engineering Economics and Financial Planning, and Project Management. Students - comprised mainly of engineers, software developers, technologists and scientists seeking to develop their management skills - receive twenty-four days of instruction over a six month period in two three-day modules. Resource persons from the community are brought in as guest speakers. Through lectures, exercises, and group assignments students cover topics including human and organizational behaviour, resource allocation, demand forecasting, economic and financial analysis, project management, sales and marketing, production, operations, business planning, writing and public speaking. The program culminates with a team business planning project using a local technology company as a case example. As of 2005, the program consists of eight integrated core courses and includes new topics relevant to modern industry demands such as eBusiness. Sub-series consists of records relating to the development and administration of the Management Skills in Advanced Technology Program. Activities, events and topics documented include program planning and general administration, instructors workshops and meetings, course and instructor evaluations, and graduation ceremonies. Records also include those relating to core courses of the program such as Communications Skills; Economic and Financial Planning; Implementing Management Concepts in Advanced Technology; Managing Creative Technically-Oriented People; Project Management; and feasibility planning for MSAT II courses. Records include correspondence, working papers, minutes, course outlines, student binders, budget and financial working papers, pamphlets, photographs and contact sheets.
Series consists of publications created by the Office of Continuing Studies and its predecessors. Printed materials include course calendars and posters; lecture notices; conference and workshop programs; and brochures for courses offered by Continuing Studies.
The fonds of the Vancouver Women in Trades Association consists of records created and received in the course of administering the organization and providing support and advocacy for women working in trades and technology in the Vancouver area. Activities documented include annual and monthly meetings; office administration and funding; liaison with other groups; advisory work on vocational curricula; outreach projects; and advocacy around specific issues. Document types include constitution, minutes, correspondence, logbooks, worksheets, policy statements, briefs, reports, speeches, questionnaires, and photographs and illustrations. The fonds also contains published reference material, whose publication dates in some instances precede the foundation of the Association itself.
Series consists of records relating to the administration of the organization. Activities documented include the drafting of the constitution, incorporation, annual general and monthly meetings, and staffing. Included are the constitution, drafts, minutes, correspondence, and office logbooks, as well as records relating to membership, personnel, and operating policies.
Series consists of records relating to the funding of the organization. It includes correspondence, funding proposals, worksheets and budget forecasts, and documents relating to the administration of government grants.
Series consists of records relating to the Association's work with other organizations, government agencies, and with other Women in Trades groups. Activities documented include a national conference in 1980 and participation on a number of advisory committees, among them the Advisory Committee on Training and Employment of Women (ACTEW), established by the Provincial Apprenticeship Board in 1981; the Women's Advisory Committee on Training Access (WACT), an ad hoc group formed in 1983 to lobby for revisions to the Training Access (TRAC) learning modules used by vocational institutes; the Women's Employment and Training Coalition (WETC); and the Women's Skills Development Society. Series includes correspondence, minutes, reports, briefs, newsletters and course-related materials.
Series consists of records relating to the promotion of women's entry into trades occupations, gathering and dissemination of information about women and trades, and advocacy around specific cases, issues, and events, including sexual harassment and affirmative action. Activities documented include questionnaires circulated on women in trades in 1980 and 1985; speaking engagements and presentations; and an outreach project aimed at high-school students, undertaken in conjunction with the Pacific Vocational Institute and the Society of Canadian Women in Science and Technology (SCWIST) in 1984-1985. Series includes correspondence, briefs, speeches, questionnaires, graphic materials and photographs, as well as published reference materials.
Series consists of records relating to the Association's work documenting and promoting women's access to education and training in trades and technology. Files reflect its concerns with apprenticeships and vocational programmes; activities relating to the Pacific Vocational Institute, later reorganized as the British Columbia Institute of Technology, and the position of Women's Advocate there; and participation in seminars and public forums on training, the workplace, and women's employment opportunities. Series includes correspondence, briefs, course and program outlines, and some government publications.
Series consists of documents retained by the Association for reference purposes. It includes press clippings, publications, and compilations of resource information.

