The Gary Cartwright papers date from 1981 to 2000 and document his writing career.
The Sarah Bird Papers spans 1985 to 1991 and consist of manuscripts, screenplays, style sheets, and copy editing notes relating to the production of her literary works.
The Joyce Gibson Roach papers date from 1961 to 1991 with the bulk of the material dating from 1970 to 1980. The collection contains the notes, clippings, interviews, articles, brochures, cassettes, and letters used by Roach in the writing of The Cowgirls and C. L. Sonnichsen: Folk Historian.
This collection documents the writing career of Neal Barrett, Jr.
The Joe R. Lansdale Collection includes materials that date from 1985 to 1992 and contain manuscripts, galley proofs, comic book art, scripts and realia.
The Larry L. King papers document his writing career and span the years from 1929 to 1993 with most of the material dating from the late 1950s.
The Billy Lee Brammer Papers document his writing career (including The Gay Place and its' unfinished sequel Faustian Days) along with various articles.
The Edwin "Bud" Shrake Papers reflect Shrake's 58-year career as a professional sportswriter, journalist, fiction writer, script writer, and non-fiction writer. The collection is arranged into the following series: Periodicals, Fiction, Screenplays/Teleplays, Playscripts, Non-fiction, Anthologies, Correspondence, Financial Papers, Corporations, Legal Papers, Research, Personal Papers and Other Writers. The first six series comprise the bulk of the collection, with drafts, notes, contracts and other documents pertaining to his many writing projects.
The collection chronicle Preston Jones personal and professional life, from his childhood in New Mexico through his days as a successful playwright.
Forty-nine boxes of typescripts, galley proofs, correspondence, printed material, photographs, scrapbook material, notes, and artifacts, among other items, document almost the entire writing career of John Graves (1920-2013).
The collection is composed of 21 boxes of manuscripts, galley proofs, notes, clippings, correspondence, artwork, financial and legal papers, screenplays, photographs and artifacts, spanning from 1971 to 2000, that document Stephen Harrigan's writing career.
Two boxes of manuscripts, clippings, published articles, programs, correspondence, photographs, and artifacts (1963-1975, undated), contain the books and essays that Stilwell was working on at the time of his death as well as related materials donated by his widow and daughter. The collection has been arranged into three series: Works, (1963-1975, undated), Personal Materials (1967, 1971, 1975, undated), and Photographs (undated).
The bulk of this collection is comprised of the original typescript for McMurtry's essay, "Walter Benjamin at the Dairy Queen," which includes handwritten corrections by the author.
Five folders of works, financial papers, photographs, promotional kits, and clippings, 1984-1986 contain materials from the 1985 film "The Trip to Bountiful."
Handwritten drafts in two spiral bound notebooks of Goldbarth's book of poetry, Different Fleshes, along with several loose sheets and one newspaper clipping dated 1978.
Seven folders of works, published materials, photographs, correspondence, cards, and programs highlight the work of A.C. Greene.
This collection contains material from the early carrer of nature photographer Jim Bones.
The collection is divided into five series: Works, Personal, Bertha McKee Dobie and Edgar Kincaid Papers, Artifacts, and Newspaper Clippings. The series contain drafts of Dobie's posthumous books, research material, drafts of newspaper columns, magazine articles, lectures, transcriptions of radio broadcasts, correspondence, photographs of family and friends, property deeds, income tax records, personal items (pipes, clothes, a favorite chair), wills, and clippings about Dobie as well as articles, clippings and photographs that had belonged to Bertha McKee Dobie and/or Edgar Kincaid.
The Rick Bass papers are comprised of manuscripts, galley proofs, notes, clippings, correspondence, legal papers, photographs and artifacts, 1924 to the present, relating to Bass' career as a writer.
This collection documents Willie Nelson's career in music, especially as a lyricist and a performing artist. The early years of Farm Aid are also well-documented.
The collection contains a copy of the screenplay for the 1975 novel Country Music, a copy of a typescript of the 1989 novel Buffalo Nickel, and an issue of the Poseidon Press Spring Selections 1989 containing an excerpt from Buffalo Nickel.
The collection consist of a script, programs, drafts, notes, photographs, articles, military documents and correspondence and span fom 1950-1971.
The collection contains several woodcuts and posters from Whitehead and Whitehead Publishing Services.
The Shelby Hearon Papers contain notes, drafts of novels, and clippings.
The Bill Wittliff papers document the book publishing, photography, and screenwriting and filmmaking aspects of Mr. Wittliff's various professional and personal pursuits, ranging in date from 1968-1995, and including the following formats: correspondence, typescript drafts, bibliographies, woodcut blocks, illustrations, photographs, screenplay drafts, film storyboards and other production materials. See series descriptions within the container list for more detailed information.
Book manuscripts, screenplays, drafts, cartoons, clippings, correspondence, photographs, ephemera, sound recordings, and artifacts documenting Sublett's careers as a rock musician and writer.
Correspondence, printed material, financial documentation, interviews, photographic material, legal documentation, notes, creative works, audio and video recordings, and machine-readable records, created and maintained by Bill Crawford and Joe Nick Patoski, document the research, production, and promotion processes of their co-authored biography, Stevie-Ray Vaughan: Caught in the Crossfire.
Correspondence, drafts, typescripts, photographs, scrapbooks, artifacts, ephemera and clippings document the writing career of Texas Women's Hall of Fame writer, Elithe Hamilton Kirkland.
This collection of correspondence, photographs, and two interviews lends an insight into Katherine Anne Porter's relationship to her home state of Texas in the last years of her life. Also included are several letters to Dr. Brooks from famous writers regarding Porter's work.
This collection ranges in date from 1940-1998 (bulk 1980-1990) and features correspondence, recipes, notes, photographs, invitations to Katherine Anne Porter conferences and dinners, published materials, and an artifact.
This collection ranges in date from 1940-1998 (bulk 1980-1990) and features correspondence, recipes, notes, photographs, invitations to Katherine Anne Porter conferences and dinners, published materials, and an artifact.
Printed material, correspondence, financial and legal documentation, handwritten notes, books and other published material, photographs, artifacts, and sound recordings document the education, teaching careers, and personal and financial lives of Jovita González Mireles and Edmundo E. Mireles.
This collection consists of notes, outlines, drafts, typescripts, correspondence, subject files, photographs, newsclippings, artifacts, a scrapbook, legal, medical, and financial records.
The Paul and Kitty Baker collection spans 1911-1999 with the bulk of the material relating to Paul Baker's career as a director and educator. The collection also contains correspondence between the Baker family.
This collection is comprised of handwritten and typed letters from Texas author Elithe Hamilton Kirkland to her friend Nancie Austin, of Wimberley, Texas.
This Cormac McCarthy collection contains a typescript of the play The Stonemason and typescripts of two screenplays: Cities of the Plain and Whales and Men. Both screenplays in this collection are unpublished.
This collection is comprised of two works of commentary by John Emil Sepich that focus on the novel, Blood Meridian, by Cormac McCarthy. Sepich published Notes on Blood Meridian in October 1993. Also included are two 1990 letters from Sepich to Bill Wittliff.
The Perspectives on Cormac McCarthy Collection includes drafts and proofs of essays by several authors on novelist Cormac McCarthy. The essays were edited by Edwin "Chip" Arnold and Dianne Luce, and appeared in Perspectives on Cormac McCarthy, the book version of the Southern Quarterly, published by the University Press of Mississippi, September 1993.
Photographs, correspondence and political campaign literature comprise the bulk of this collection. Dates range from 1958-1992.
Books, manuscripts, sheet music, galleys, handwritten notes, and photographs in this collection relate primarily to Frazier's 1983 biographical essay on Texas State alumna Ponce Cruse Evans.
This collection is comprised primarily of photocopies of newspaper articles written by Susan Hanson, staff writer for the San Marcos Daily Record.
The papers of journalist and folk arts researcher Kay Council.
This collection includes one typescript of a speech, and copies of two articles published by Dan Flores.
The collection includes photographs, costumes, posters, awards, and clippings featuring Hall of Fame members.
This collection is comprised of annotated typescripts and page mock-ups for Gwynn's three books of poetry, and one poem written for a wedding ceremony.
This small collection is comprised of the handwritten lyrics and chord notations to the country western song "Charlie Dunn", written in the 1970s by Jerry Jeff Walker for the Texas boot maker by that name. Also included is the first pair of custom lizard skin boots made for Walker by Dunn.
This collection is comprised of newspaper clippings, a typescript, photographs, prints and posters.
This collection was created and maintained by Joe Nick Patoski in the process of writing the biography of Tejano singer, Selena Quintanilla Perez. The collection is compiled of news clippings, manuscripts, interviews, photographs, court documents, notes, publicity materials, computer disks and ephemera.
The Pat LittleDog Papers are comprised of diaries, typescripts, correspondence, artifacts, and published journals.
The William Hauptman Collection contains drafts, manuscripts, typescripts, notes, photographs, and correspondence with dates ranging from 1956-1993.
This collection includes oral histories recorded on audio cassette tapes, transcriptions, videotapes, photographs, notes, and exhibit text panels which document this project, retracing FSA photographer Russell Lee's Depression era work in Pie Town, NM and San Augustine, TX.
The Cindy Bonner papers document the writing and editing process of her novels and short stories, including research notes, annotated drafts, proofs, and correspondence, dating from 1983-1999.
The Sam Shepard Papers document the middle years of Sam Shepard's literary and acting career, from 1980-1999. The collection is comprised of the following series: Plays, Novels, Short Stories, Films, Literary Criticism, Notebooks, Correspondence, Clippings, Awards, Interviews, Readings, Published Compilations, Works by Others, and Framed Posters.
Nine boxes of manuscripts, galley proofs, notes, clippings, correspondence, legal papers, photographs, poetry, screenplays, short stories and artifacts, 1957-1992, document the writing career of James Crumley.
Annotated drafts, typescripts, page proofs, galleys, correspondence, photographs, notes, and newsclippings dating from 1984-2001 represent the writing career of award-winning children's book writer, Angela Shelf Medearis.
This collection is comprised of eight annotated pages of Villanueva's working drafts of the Cabeza de Vaca poem titled Cuento del Cronista, published in Crónica de mis años peores (Chronicle of My Worst Years), 1994, one black and white 8x10 public relations photo mounted on foam core and two posters promoting two separate lectures dated November 6, 1996 for the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center and March 11, 1998 for Texas State University.
Working drafts, photographs, and correspondence make up the papers of journalist and novelist Jan Reid. The collection is arranged into the following three series: Books (1974-1986), Articles and Stories (1975-1994, undated), and Correspondence (1976-1993, undated)
Research notes, annotated typescripts, correspondence, photographs, and newsclippings make up the Elizabeth Crook papers, and relate mainly to Crook's novels of historical fiction, Raven's Bride (1991), and Promised Lands: A Novel of the Texas Rebellion (1994). The collection is arranged into the following three series: Works, Mailing Lists, and Clippings.
Typescript drafts, correspondence, notes, clippings, journals, and photographs document the writing career of Beverly Lowry. The bulk of the papers relate to four of Lowry's seven published books, with The Perfect Sonya and Crossed Over being the most fully represented. The collection is arranged into the following seven series: Works, Correspondence, Clippings, Publicity, Computer disks, Personal, and Artifacts.
Literary papers of Fred Gipson, including drafts of several of Gipson's short stories, screenplays, and one nonfiction autobiographical piece.
These papers are comprised of annotated drafts, typescripts, and correspondence relating to an essay by Gilb which was commissioned by Texas Monthly in 2000.
The Jay Milner papers cover 1960-1994 and consist of newspaper clippings of columns and reviews written by Milner, personal correspondence, photographs, and print materials. Series include I. Works (1960-1994,) II. Correspondence (1960-1993,) III. Photographs (undated) and Printed Materials (1970-1977).
This collection contains annotated typescripts and page proofs of Robert A. Calvert's collaborative book projects focusing on Texas history and culture.
The Bill Arhos Papers contains documents and artifacts relevant to Austin City Limits and artists connected to the show, gathered by Bill Arhos, co-creator, executive producer, and program director. It includes press clippings, publicity materials, photographs, correspondence, galley proofs for the book Austin City Limits by Cliff Endres, and memorabilia.
The papers of magazine editor, playwright, novelist, and screenwriter, William Broyles, Jr., span the years 1962 to the 2002 and are arranged into the following series: Personal Papers, Magazines, Books (Published and Unpublished), Plays, Television Projects (General, Produced, and Unproduced), Film Projects (Produced and Unproduced), Writings by Others, and Videocassettes.
Correspondence, printed material, handwritten notes, tearsheets, newspaper clippings, published magazines, and one VHS cassette, document the literary career of the author and posthumous publication of her works.
Personal papers, correspondence, newspaper clippings, magazine articles, computer disks and numerous copies of Hughes short stories, story lines, poems, and letters to editors documenting Hughes's 2002 Puckerbrush Press collection, Cora's Seduction and Other Stories.
Correspondence, research notes and interviews, plot maps, chapter synopses, character outlines, editor's revision suggestions, and two magazines document the career of Texas writer Rick Riordan spanning the years of 1997-2004.
Journal articles, correspondence, published works, unpublished research and notes and photographs document the career of Edward Muegge "Buck" Schiwetz as an artist, illustrator and architectural sketcher. The collection is arranged into four main series: Biographical Material, Correspondence, Art Projects by E.M. Schiwetz, and Photographs.
Cash Edwards and Roger Polson created the collection for Under the Hat Productions during the company's sixteen year existence starting in 1984 and ending in 2000. The majority of the papers contained are from the period of 1996 through 1999. The papers include a wide variety of promotional materials for their artist clients as well as a number of market research materials and press clippings
The papers of journalist Grover Lewis span the years 1955 to 2005 and are arranged into seven series: Personal Papers, Correspondence, Published Works, Unpublished Works, Works by Others, Audio Tapes, and Oversized Items
The letters in this collection date from 1874 to 1931 and the bulk of them concern John Wesley Hardin's arrest and imprisonement.
The Cormac McCarthy Papers span 1964-2007 and document the literary career of one of America's most celebrated authors. The collection is arranged in two series: Published Works and Unpublished Works. The bulk of the collection is Published Works. Novels and produced plays and screenplays represented include: The Orchard Keeper; Outer Dark; Child of God; The Gardener's Son; Suttree; Blood Meridian; All the Pretty Horses; The Crossing; The Stonemason; Cities of the Plain; No Country for Old Men; the Road; and The Sunset Limited. Unpublished Works include the screenplay, "Whales and Men," and an unfinished novel "The Passenger." NOTE: "The Passenger" is restricted until after novel is published.
The Woolmer Collection of Cormac McCarthy spans 1969-2006 and documents the professional and personal friendship between the book collector and McCarthy. The collection is arranged in four series: Correspondence, Writings by McCarthy, Writings about McCarthy, and Woolmer's Bibliography Files.
Material related to the production and marketing of Antone's: Home of the Blues, including 318 DV cam tapes of raw footage used in the production of the film, DVD viewing copies of the DV cam tapes, one commercial DVD copy of the documentary, one poster for the premiere, critical reviews, press releases, short bios and a list of the cast, video trailer, TV news report, and a VHS copy of the first cut that premiered at the South by Southwest film festival in March 2004.
The Robert Benton Papers document the filmmaking career of the Oscar- winning writer and director. Works represented include Kramer vs. Kramer, Still of the Night, Nadine, Places in the Heart, Billy Bathgate, and Nobody's Fool. Materials include scripts, notes, production and publicity materials, photographs, and set designs for films Benton wrote and/or directed.
Jody Fischer's collection of photographs, audio cassette tapes and VHS tapes relating to Willie Nelson. The materials are arranged into the following six series: Personal Papers, Ephemera, Photographs, Audio Cassette Tapes, VHS Tapes, and T-Shirts and Hats.
Correspondence, photographs, personal papers, and other research materials represent the life of Nadine Eckhardt, author of Duchess of Palms. The materials were collected over the life span of Eckhardt, born in 1931, and were used in research for her memoir. The materials are arranged into five series: Personal Papers, Correspondence, Photographs, Printed Materials and Dutches of Palms.
The Sam Shepard and Johnny Dark Collection spans 1972-2011 and documents the men's forty-plus year friendship. The collection is arranged in five series: Correspondence, Dialogues, Photographs, Audio Material, and Video Material.
The Robert Compton papers span 1955-2008 and document the career of the well-respected and long-time Books editor of the Dallas Morning News. The bulk of the collection is the correspondences from book reviewers, journalists, and authors, including Jim Lehrer, Larry McMurtry, Rick Bass, and William Goyen. This collection also is comprised of documents that pertain to the inner-workings of the Dallas Morning News, including changes in writing styles pertaining to race and gender. The collection also contains photographs, cassette tape recordings, and fragile newspapers.
The Lonesome Dove archive contains scripts, memos, letters, notes, production forms, set and costume sketches, set blueprints, photographs, props, costumes, videotapes, audiocassettes and a laser videodisc. The material details every aspect of the production--from the writing of the teleplay through the budgeting, casting, planning, scheduling, filming, publicity and distribution.
The Jerry Retzloff Collection spans 1973-2012 and documents Texas music, Lone Star Beer, and Willie Nelson. The collection is arranged in nine series: Personal Papers, Lone Star Beer, Photographs, Willie Nelson, Memorabilia, Oversized Materials, Newspapers and Magazines, Clothing, and Posters.
The papers of filmmaker and writer Severo Perez span 1972-2010 and document his career in film and television, and as a writer. The bulk of the collection relates to his film work, especially his 1995 film, …and the earth did not swallow him.
The Aubra Nooncaster Papers span 1938-1992, and document the writings of coach, poet, and mentor to Larry L. King, Aubra Nooncaster. The collection is arranged into four series: Correspondence, Writings about Coach Nooncaster, Nooncaster's Writings, and Larry L. King. The bulk of the collection is correspondence from Larry L. King to Nooncaster. The collection also includes published poems and unpublished drafts of poems written by Nooncaster
Journalist and chili enthusiast Wick Fowler (1909-1972) was born Homer Thomas Wilson Fowler in Big Sandy, Texas and grew up in Victoria, Texas. The Wick Fowler papers span 1944-1991 (bulk dates: 1944-1945, 1965-1978) and document Fowler's journalism work as well as the Chili Appreciation Society International and Fowler's 2-Alarm Chili product.
The Tamara Saviano Collection of Guy and Susanna Clark spans the life and careers of both Guy and Susanna Clark with the main focus being on Guy. The collection comprises of Saviano's research for her biography, Without Getting Killed or Caught; interviews, family histories, magazine articles, and donated materials from Guy and Susanna Clark. The organization of the collection is both organic and artificial as the research is left in the order given by Tamara Saviano whereas the personal materials are separated into Guy and Susanna Clark, respectively.
Naomi Shihab Nye, acclaimed poet who also writes essays, songs, novels, and children's books; edits poetry anthologies, and teaches poetry writing to youth and adults, was born in 1952 in St. Louis, Missouri to Aziz Shihab, a journalist and immigrant from Palestine, and Miriam Shihab, a Montessori teacher with a fine arts degree in painting. Forty-eight document boxes and seven oversized boxes containing drafts, diaries and notebooks, photographic material, correspondence, and published material document the working life of poet, writer, and educator Naomi Shihab Nye (1952- ).
The papers of reporter, photographer, and publisher, Sam Kindrick, span 1934-2018, and are arranged into three series: Photographs, Kindrick's Personal Papers, and Action Magazine. The bulk of the collection relates to Action Magazine, a monthly newspaper Kindrick launched in 1975. Included are approximately 4,000 photographs from the publication, and a near-complete run of the paper. Kindrick's personal papers include copies of his column from the San Antonio Express News, 1968-1974.
Ron Young, longtime music journalist, songwriter and, musician grew up in San Antonio, Texas, and was the founder and publisher of the pioneering indie music newspaper It's Only Rock 'N' Roll. The publication chronicled the rise of punk and New Wave music in San Antonio and Austin, as well as local and regional rock 'n' roll, blues and heavy metal acts.
Printed material, correspondences, photographs, scrapbooks, awards, personal files, 1920's to 2003, document the life and activities of Maury Maverick Jr. Organized into series for photographs, correspondences, biographical material, Israel, and written works by Maverick.
This collection contains papers by and about Frank Waters and some associates connected to Waters. The bulk of the collection concerns papers related to the Frank Waters Foundation and its activities. The collection is organized into six series: Correspondence, Writings by Frank Waters, Writings about Frank Waters, The Frank Waters Foundation, Frank Waters' Associates, Other Writings, Oversized, and Artifacts. 
The Ramón Hernández Tejano Music Collection spans from 1922-2019 and is organized into twelve series. The collection documents the history of Tejano, conjunto, and orchestra music predominately in Texas (although musicians from around the world are represented). The bulk of the material relates to musicians' publicity material, but all aspects of the business of Tejano music, including record labels, media outlets, publications, and events are also well-represented. The costume collection consisting of stage outfits is also of note.
The Sergio Troncoso Papers span 1975-2020 and are divided into six series: Personal, Published Works, Magazine and Journal Contributions, Publicity, Student Letters, and Digital Material. The bulk of the collection is drafts of his early work, including The Last Tortilla and Other Stories, The Nature of Truth, Crossing Borders: Personal Essays, and From This Wicked Patch of Dust. Also of note are his academic essays from his graduate school studies at Yale.
The Sipper Collection is comprised of over 100 letters from Larry McMurtry to Ralph Sipper ranging from 1982-2018. Arranged chronologically, they document McMurtry's practice of and thoughts on book selling and buying. Frequent topics include the sale of screenplays, his work in the film business, and mutual acquaintances in the literary world.
This small collection contains materials on Cormac McCarthy and his work, including magazines, various newspaper clippings, photocopies of work and reviews, and printouts from the "Cormac McCarthy Home Pages."
Small Manuscript Collections consists of material acquired by the Wittliff either through gift or purchase that are not part of a larger collection. They are often individual items or small groups of items relating to a particular author, musician, photographer, or topic. Types of material include: manuscripts; letters; photographs; ephemera such as pamphlets, brochures or catalogs; reports; historical documents; and other printed material. Each item or group of items is assigned a unique number such as SMC-0001, SMC-0002, SMC-0003, etc. that serves as the call number for the respective small collection.
This collection includes editorial files for Texas Monthly issues. The files are arranged chronologically by issue (Date, Year) and are described at the box-level. Content of the files per issue vary, but most include fact-check files, author research and notes, inter-office memos, and other materials generated in the composition and publication of feature articles for a particular issue of the magazine.
Materials pertaining to Beverly Lowry's writing career. Items included are: manuscripts, galleys, subject interviews, reviews, notes, research material, photographs, correspondence, newspaper clippings, books, magazines, journals, and scrapbooks
Multiple accessions from Cormac McCarthy scholar, John Emil Sepich, documenting McCarthy's work, notably Blood Meridian. Includes correspondence and writings from other other McCarthy scholars and translators.
Multiple accessions from Author, Mike Cox document his writing career as well as his decades of reviewing books for The Austin-American Statesman.
Multiple accessions from music writer, John T Davis include a wide expanse of Davis's articles from 1980-2010, including articles from Davis's music column in the Austin-American Statesman and extensive subject files. Also present are numerous files from SXSW and ACL, as well as manuscript drafts and other materials relating to Davis's book, Austin City Limits: 25 Years of Music.
Photographs of Texas musicians while in concert, taken by Michael Frederick in venues around Central Texas.
Additions documenting the writing career of James Crumley with added notes and content by screenwriter and first wife, Martha Elizabeth.
Sumner's literary papers detail the many topics she reported on during her career, circa 1973-2015, which paralleled the rise of a viable Texas film industry. Included are college writings, newspapers with published articles, VHS tapes, microcassette tapes, interview cassette tapes (with subjects such as Bill Wittliff, Richard Linklater, Robert Duvall, Sissy Spacek, etc.), original drafts, and interview transcripts. The folder titles preceding a colon reflect Sumner's original description.
Multiple accessions from Texas State University professor and writer, Miles Wilson. Materials include research and drafts for his books, Line of Fall, Fire Season, Going the Distance, and Harm: Poems.
Multiple accessions from scholar and author, Mark Busby document his research and writing. His archive also includes substantial records from the Texas Institute of Letters, for which Busby is past President.
Multiple accessions documenting the writing career of Ann Weisgarber, author of The Personal History of Rachel Dupree (2010), The Promise (2013), and The Glovemaker (2019).
This accession consists of archival materials relating to the writing career of author, Ann Weisgarber from 1989-2017. Majority of the materials in the collection are research and drafts for Weisgarber's various works such as The Personal History of Rachel DuPree and The Promise. The collection also includes correspondence with publishers such as Pan MacMillan; articles written by Weisgarber; and materials from writing conferences and workshops. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Weisgarber's original descriptions.
Archival materials received from Ann Weisgarber. Majority of the materials pertaining to research and drafts of her novel, The Glovemaker. Correspondence e-mails with her editor, Josie Humber, and publishing company Mantle/ MacMillian of the UK, as well as, a film offer for The Personal History of Rachel Dupree. Included are many revisions of chapters 1-23 of The Glovemaker (Excluding chapter 16). Ann Weisgarber was on the TIF council for "Texas Institute of Letters- 82nd annual Awards Banquet" which awarded recipients Sandra Cisneros, Bill Wittliff, and Jan Reid amongst many others.
Two accessions of Celeste Bedford Walker's playscripts and screenplays including "Distant Voices", "Greenwood: An American Dream Destroyed", "Sassy Mamas", "Bartersville" and "Camp Logan". Also included are promotional items, photographs, correspondence, newspaper articles and reviews.
Ray Benson's archive contains materials documenting his entire career, featuring records, photographs, instruments, wardrobe, awards and other memorabilia dating from 1951-2018.
The archive of musician Terri Hendrix includes correspondence, photographs, programs and flyers, awards, articles about Hendrix, composition notebooks, lyrics, sheet music, recordings, artifacts, and posters. Correspondence includes greeting cards, letters, and fan mail – many from young students. Awards includes her 2016 induction into the San Marcos Women's Hall of Fame and contains the nomination packet put together by Richard Skanse. The recordings are arranged by format: 2" reel studio recordings - many produced by Lloyd Maines; audiocassettes of demos, live performances, and recordings spanning 1989-2007; CDs of the same spanning 1997-2015; DAT tapes; and mini discs. The collection also includes VHS cassettes and computer files, and a pair of painted overalls worn by Hendrix while performing.
Multiple accessions documenting the career of Texas State University alumnus and internationally recognized cartoonist, Charles Barsotti. Materials include original drawings, correspondence, files relating to marketing campaigns, and magazines featuring his work.
An extensive collection of original cowpoke artwork by Asa "Ace" Reid. The bulk of the accession consists of 75 framed pen and ink cartoons, and there are another 35 unframed in box 1. Also framed are 14 original watercolors by Reid, a 6-foot oil painting of Reid, and a banner from Ruidoso Downs. There are several photographs of Ace Reid by himself and with others, as well as photographs of notables such as Governor John Connally, Hank Thompson, and Slim Pickens. Artifacts include Reid's drawing table, chair, and saddle. The collection was transferred from the Museum of Western Art in Kerrville, Texas.
The archive of Emmy-award winning costume designer, Van Broughton Ramsey spans 1980-2014 and measures 32 boxes. The bulk of the collection comprises his design binders for various projects; these are arranged according to genre: plays, films, television movies, television mini-series, and television series.
Texas singer/songwriter, James McMurtry's archive includes original notepads and loose pages of lyric composition. Albums represented include Too Long in the Wasteland (1989); Candyland (1992); Where'd You Hide the Body (1995); Walk Between the Raindrops (1998); Saint Mary's Wood (2002); Live in Aught-Three (2004); Childish Things (2005); Just Us Kids (2008); and Complicated Game (2015).
Multiple accessions from drummer Ernie Durawa document his decades-long performing with artists such as The Texas Tornados, Willie Nelson, Johnny Bush, Flaco Jimenez, and others. Included are awards, posters, photographs, and video cassettes.
The archive of singer-songwriter, Charlie Robison spans 1989-2014. Included are song lyrics, photographs, flyers, posters, and scrapbooks. The bulk of the collection is comprised of the 8 scrapbooks dating from 1989-2002 that include numerous photographs, newspaper and magazine articles, and memorabilia. Of note is the circa 1992 photo album that includes childhood pictures of Robison with his mother and siblings, as well as many snapshots from early performances with Two Hoots and a Holler, and ticket stubs from concerts Robison attended
This collection of photographs, correspondence, personal and legal documents, artifacts, paintings, and publications ranges in date from 1881-1992 (bulk dates 1936-1965). It has been arranged into the following series: I. Correspondence; II. Personal Documents; III. Legal Documents; IV. President's Commission on Coal; V. Exhibits and Publications; VI. Interviews; VII. Clippings; VIII. Awards and Artifacts; IX. Photographs of Russell and Jean Lee; X. Photographs by Russell Lee; XI. Paintings by Russell Lee; and XII. Camera Equipment
The Jean Lee Papers are comprised of correspondence, funeral and memorial papers, legal documents, and artifacts.
Mary Sue Jones' Papers span the years from 1931 to 1992 with most of the material dating from the 1960s through the 1980s. Contained here are class notes, scripts, set designs, costume designs, playbills, letters, photographs, records, audiotapes, reports, clippings, magazines, articles, awards, school records, yearbooks, scrapbooks, personal effects, and mementos.
This collection consists of research documents and taped interviews with transcripts conducted with Jerry Jeff Walker, Walker's family, friends and other musicians. Materials were compiled by Earl Casey as research for the book Gypsy Songman.
Archival materials received from journalist and former CNN senior vice president, Earl Casey. Casey, a longtime friend of Jerry Jeff and Susan Walker, served as the chief researcher and writer/consultant on Jerry Jeff Walker's autobiography, Gypsy Songman, 1999. The bulk of the material in this collection dates 1964-1990 and consists of research documents and taped interviews with transcripts conducted with Jerry Jeff Walker, Walker's family, friends and other musicians for the book Gypsy Songman. Research documents include photocopies of Walker's arrest records for his infamous, 1964 New Orleans public intoxication charge, correspondence between Walker, his family and friends, newspaper clippings pertaining to Walker's childhood in Oneonta, New York and his subsequent musical career, a PhD dissertation pertaining to the songs of Jerry Jeff Walker, photographs, drawings, partial draft manuscript for Letters from the Road (original working title for Gypsy Songman) and a copy of Ben Jennings' unpublished memoir. Color coded stickers on cassette tapes and transcripts along with color coded spreadsheet reflect Casey's original numbering system. Folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Casey's original descriptions. NOTE: BOX 3664 FOLDER 1 IS RESTRICTED UNTIL 2035 WITHOUT CURATOR OR DIRECTOR'S PERMISSION.
Each year since 2004, the Common Experience events bring students together to read and engage with a powerful text, and explore related themes in University Seminar classes. Collection consists of background and planning materials, press releases, posters, calendars of events, as well as each year's book.
Collection of posters advertising the Clyde Beatty and Cole Bros. Circus performances that took place in San Marcos, Texas on September 15th, probably in the year 1964.
This collection consists of 46 glass plate negatives showing images of San Antonio and San Marcos, Texas, and the surrounding area, as well as portraits dating from around 1892-1911. Notable images include Battle of Flowers parade, Fort Sam Houston, the Hays County Courthouse, the First United Methodist Church, and the Belgar-Cahill Lime Kiln.
The Alfred H. Nolle papers document the education and professional activities of Alfred H. Nolle including his roles as German language and literature professor, Dean of Southwest Texas State Teachers College, and member of a number of professional and educational organizations. Topics include higher education administration, foreign language education, teacher education, education accreditation, German language and literature, educational honor societies, professional organizations, the life and career of Lyndon B. Johnson, and the history and administration of Southwest Texas State College and its predecessors.
Judy Alter began donating her papers to the Southwestern Writers Collection/The Wittliff Collections in 1993. Alter writes for both adults and young readers and she is best known for her books on women and girls of the American West. Among her many honors are "best book" awards from the Texas Institute of Letters, the Western Writers of America, and the Western Heritage (Wrangler) Awards from the National Cowboy Museum. In 1996 the Dallas Morning News named her one of 100 Women Who Have Left Their Mark on Texas. In 2005 the Western Writers of America gave Alter the Owen Wister Award for Lifetime Achievement.
Gary Cartwright was born August 10, 1934 in Dallas, Texas, and raised in nearby Arlington. He received a B.A. in journalism and government from Texas Christian University in 1957. Cartwright reported the police beat for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram from 1956 until he was hired away in 1958 to the Fort Worth Press, where he joined Dan Jenkins and Bud Shrake in the sports department under legendary Texas sportswriter Blackie Sherrod. In 1960, Cartwright moved to the Dallas Times Herald as a sports reporter and in 1963 he joined the Dallas Morning News to write his own sports column. Cartwright's first book, a football novel entitled The Hundred Yard War, was published in 1967 at which point he left newspaper work to become a freelance writer. His work has appeared in The Texas Observer, Esquire, Saturday Review, Rolling Stone and Texas Monthly.
Cartwright has been associated with Texas Monthly magazine since its inception in 1973. His articles range over various topics--crime, notable Texans, Texas culture, travel, sports and international travel. A collection of his Texas Monthly articles can be found in Confessions of a Washed-up Sportswriter. The true-crime books Blood Will Tell and Dirty Dealing began as articles for Texas Monthly. In 1988, Cartwright had a heart attack that required quintuple-bypass surgery. A suggestion by Governor Ann Richards to document changes in his life since the injury led to his latest book, HeartWiseGuy.
Among the many honors Cartwright has received for his writing are the Texas Institute of Letters' Stanley Walker Award for Journalism for "The Endless Odyssey of Patrick Henry Polk" (Texas Monthly, May 1977) and the Press Club of Dallas Katie Award for Best Magazine News Story for "The Work of the Devil" (Texas Monthly, June 1989). Cartwright has written screenplays in collaboration with Edwin (Bud) Shrake, including J W. Coop (1972) and Another Pair of Aces (CBS-TV, 1990).
Cartwright passed away on February 22, 2017.
Sarah Bird was born December 26, 1949 in Ann Arbor, Michigan but lived a peripatetic childhood in an Air Force family. She received a BA in anthropology at the University of New Mexico in 1973 and an MA in journalism at the University of Texas at Austin in 1976. Bird was an editor and contributor for the no-longer-active Austin magazine Third Coast. She authored five romance novels under the pseudonym Tory Cates and one, Do Evil Cheerfully, as Sarah McCabe Bird.
In 1986, her comic novel The Alamo House was published based on her experience as a graduate student at the University of Texas. This work was followed by The Boyfriend School in 1989 and The Mommy Club in 1991, both, like The Alamo House, marked by Bird's sharp wit and sense of the absurd. In addition to novels, Bird writes screenplays, and her articles have appeared in national magazines including Cosmopolitan, Mademoiselle, and Ms.
Sarah Bird has published under the names Sarah McCabe Bird, Tory Cates, and Sarah Bird.
Joyce Gibson Roach was born December 18, 1935 in Jacksboro, Texas. She received a BFA in 1958 and an MA in 1964 from Texas Christian University.
Having lived all her life in ranch country, Roach has had a lifelong interest in western folklore. She is active in the Texas Folklore Society of which she was president in 1976. She has contributed articles to magazines such as Western Folklore, Horseman, and Southwest Heritage. She received the Spur Award from Western Writers of America in 1977 for The Cowgirls.
Neal Barrett, Jr. is a fourth generation Texan born in San Antonio in 1929. He was raised in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and acquired a degree from the University of Oklahoma's Professional Writers' School. Barrett began as a corporate writer in public relations but turned freelance when his works began to sell. A prolific writer of science fiction, Barrett has also written westerns, boys' adventure stories and historical novels. His short stories have appeared in major magazines such as Omni, Galaxy and Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine.
Barrett has also written under other names including: Victor Appleton, Chad Calhoun, Clay Dawson, Franklin W. Dixon, Rebecca Drury, Wesley Ellis, and J.D. Hardin.
Joe R. Lansdale was born October 28, 1951 in Gladewater, Texas. A freelance writer since 1981, Lansdale has written horror, science fiction, westerns and mysteries. He has expressed a preference for short stories but has also written novels, comic scripts, screenplays and stage plays. He has edited several short story anthologies and has contributed to numerous genre magazines. All his works are informed by his life-long immersion in the atmosphere of deep East Texas. Lansdale was awarded the Bram Stoker award for Night They Missed the Horror Show in 1989 and for On the Far Side of the Cadillac Desert With Dead Folks in 1990.
Lawrence Leo King, the youngest child of Clyde Clayton and Cora Lee Clark King, was born January 1, 1929 in Putnam, Texas. He fixed on a career as a writer early in his childhood, inspired by the Mark Twain his mother read to him. As early as grade school, King pursued publication of his works. He wrote regularly for the student newspaper at high school where he found a mentor in Aubra Nooncaster, football coach, English teacher and poet. From high school, King joined the army where he was a reporter for his base paper. He wrote professionally as a sports and crime reporter for the Hobbs (N. M.) Daily Flare, the Midland Reporter-Telegram and the Odessa American after a brief stint at Texas Technological College (now Texas Tech University) as a journalism major. In 1954, King moved to Washington, D.C. as the Administrative Assistant to Representative J. T. Rutherford. After Rutherford was defeated in 1962, King joined the staff of another Texas congressman, future House Speaker Jim Wright. In 1964, King quit Capitol Hill to become a free-lance writer.
The novel, The One-Eyed Man, was published in 1966, but King's chief livelihood as a writer during this time came from his magazine articles. From 1964, King wrote for The Texas Observer, an iconoclastic liberal magazine "then the only voice of dissent (constant) or reason (occasionally) to be found in my native state" (King, Blockhead 20). At the same time, Mississippian Willie Morris, a University of Texas graduate and former editor of the Observer, encouraged King's writing ambitions. Morris gave King his first national exposure in Harper's, where Morris was an editor. In 1967, Morris was named editor-in-chief of Harper's and under his leadership, the magazine became famed for its' exciting and innovative writing. Morris published the brightest literary lights of the day as represented by an impressive list King catalogues in The Old Man and Lesser Mortals: "James Dickey, Jules Feiffer, Robert Penn Warren, Justin Kaplan, Sara Davidson, Jack Richardson, Elizabeth Hardwick, Norman Podhoretz, Arthur Miller, Tony Lucas, George Plimpton, Bud Shrake, Michael Arlen, Joe McGinnis, Alfred Kazin, John Updike, Ralph Ellison, Jeremy Larner, Ward Just, Truman Capote, Herbert Gold, Tom Wicker, Gay Talese, Larry McMurtry, Joan Didion, Philip Roth, John Fowles, Irving Howe . . ." (286). Not to be left out are William Styron, Norman Mailer, Bill Moyers and David Halberstam. King's best magazine work, as witnessed by the dominance of Harper's pieces in King's published collections, was done under Morris's editing. Examples of their collaboration are "Requiem for a West Texas Town", "My Hero LBJ", "The Old Man", and "The Whole World's Turned On."
King went on to write for numerous, well-known publications including Life, Holiday, Cosmopolitan, The Progressive, Playboy and Sports Illustrated. His topics were, in the main, Texas ("Requiem for a West Texas Town," "The Old Man," "The Lost Frontier," "Playing Cowboy") and politics ("My Hero LBJ," "God, Man and William F. Buckley," "The Trial of John Connally"), but he also treated other subjects such as sports, travel, and music.
In 1978, King penned the book for the hit Broadway musical The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas, based on an article he wrote for Playboy. The success of Whorehouse allowed King to get off what he had come to feel was the magazine treadmill and develop his talent in a different form. He has subsequently seen his plays The Night Hank Williams Died, The Kingfish and Golden Shadows Old West Museum produced.
During his career, King's work has received much praise. He earned a National Book Award Nomination in 1972 for Confessions of a White Racist. He received a Stanley Walker Journalism Award from the Texas Institute of Letters in 1973 for the article "The Lost Frontier." A television documentary, CBS Reports: The Best Little Statehouse in Texas, earned him an Emmy. He received the Mary Goldwater Award from the Theatre Lobby Trust in 1988 for The Night Hank Williams Died. This same work brought him the Helen Hayes award for best new play in 1989.
Though a college dropout, King's journalistic talent brought him to Harvard University in the 1969-1970 academic year as a Nieman Fellow. (He chronicled this experience in the October 1970 issue of Harper's, "Blowing My Mind at Harvard".) From Fall 1973 through Fall 1974, King taught as a Ferris Professor of Journalism and Political Science at Princeton University. He was a Duke Fellow of Communications from 1975 to 1976.
King has lived the majority of his life away from his home state but he continually returns there in his writing. In his own words, "That time and place of my youth -- which, I had been thoroughly convinced contained no story material, has merely provided me with the stuff of a career." (King, National Geographic Speech 1988) By chronicling the Texas that formed him, a Texas that is passing if not past, King, who believes "understanding of the past is vital to the lessons of the present" (King, The Old Man 46) has come to see himself as a leaver of "literary signposts. Those signposts say, simply . . . this is how it was, in my time and my place, when I passed this way . . . . Pass it on!" (C.A.S.T. Speech 1993, SWWC).
King married Wilma Jeanne Casey (d. 1991) in 1950. They had three children, Alexandria, Kerri Lee King Grandey, and Bradley Clayton. King, divorced in 1964, married on February 20, 1965 Rosemarie Coumaris Kline, who died of cancer June 8, 1972. Since May 6, 1978, King then married Barbara S. Blaine, who was also his lawyer and agent. They had two children, Lindsay Allison and Blaine Carlton.
King died of emphysema on December 20, 2012.
Billy Lee Brammer was born April 21, 1929, in Dallas, Texas. He graduated from North Texas State College in 1952 with a degree in journalism. Brammer was a reporter for the Corpus Christi Caller Times and the Austin Statesman, where he won a press award for excellence in writing in 1952. In 1954, he won the Texas Associated Press Managing Editors Contest for a feature sports story written for the same paper (newly titled the Austin American-Statesman). As the Statesman reported in its January 10, 1954 issue, the prize-winning story was written in Brammer's "usual unusual style."
In 1955, Brammer became an associate editor of the Texas Observer, a magazine of liberal dissent at a time when in Texas "the impulse for dissent scarcely existed" (Texas Observer, August 25, 1961). There he attracted the attention of Texas Senator Lyndon Baines Johnson, who invited him to join his staff. While employed by Johnson in Washington, D.C., Brammer began working on his first and only published novel, The Gay Place. The book was published by Houghton Mifflin in 1961 to wide critical acclaim.
The Gay Place (reissued by Texas Monthly Press in 1978 and by Vintage Press in 1984) is where Brammer's literary reputation rests. The book consists of three novellas, all revolving around politics, all dominated by the larger than life, omniscient, manipulative Governor Arthur Fenstemaker. Brammer told friends Fenstemaker was a composite, but the character is largely reminiscent of Lyndon Baines Johnson. Willie Morris calls The Gay Place a "symphony of politics and sex and ambition and the immense Texas landscape [that] remains the great authentic modern novel we have yet of the state" (Texas Observer, Mar 3, 1978).
In 1959, after the still-unfinished The Gay Place had been bought by Houghton Mifflin, Brammer left Johnson's staff to work for the economist Eliot Janeway. Time hired him in 1960 to cover civil rights issues from the magazine's Atlanta office. Brammer quit the Time job in 1961 and thereafter never held sustained employment. He began a sequel to The Gay Place titled Fustian Days, but it was never completed. Though he did write several articles, Brammer never followed up the promise of his first book. Several reasons have been put forth for his writing block: disappointment at being barred from access to Johnson, who was displeased with The Gay Place; the overwhelming success of his first novel; and drug abuse. Brammer at one point gave his own explanation in a letter dated August 23, 1968 to Larry L. King - the problem was "getting hanged-up with attempts at over-perfection, compounded by uptight-making realization that [one] is really on [one's] own and has to be-god-effing mother produce as fulltime free-lance typewriter fella." (King Papers, The Wittliff Collections)
Various friends tried to help Brammer produce again. Fellow Texan and writer Larry L. King lobbied magazine editors into giving Brammer assignments. Texas columnist Jay Milner hired him as a journalism professor at Southern Methodist University in 1969 and then got him a position as a writer-in-residence at Bowling Green. William Broyles signed him on as a contributing editor for Texas Monthly. In 1976, Brammer's former wife, Nadine Eckhardt, asked him to help her write a memoir. Brammer took these offers in earnest, but after an initial spurt of activity he always drifted off. He held numerous other jobs for short periods of time, among them rock and roll promoter, dishwasher, and cook.
Those who knew Brammer remember him fondly and with admiration. Filmmaker Robert Benton testified, "Bill was one of the most charming, charismatic people I've ever met in my life. And he could talk about anything … "(Austin Chronicle, March 26, 1993). Jay Milner, in his syndicated newspaper column, portrayed Brammer as having been a "soft-spoken, gently lecherous, incredibly widely read, avid rock aficionado, ultimately rather seedy bon vivant, neurotic little man ("Remembering Billy Lee Brammer, a man of the Sixties" 1993). Willie Morris reminisced that he was "kind, unselfish, and giving of the things he knew - a sweet, gentle man, a teller of stories who never knew how to attitudinize" (Texas Observer, Mar 3, 1978). Brammer, tongue-in-cheek, did his own summing up in 1976: "Bestowed from birth with a lucy-in-the sky twinkle and irreverence for everything, Brammer bounced around the sub-culture after leaving LBJ, writing unfinished masterpieces by the score, ingesting hogsheads of drugs and acquiring a local image as the best approximation of guru and human wonder around" (Brammer Papers, The Wittliff Collections).
Brammer married Nadine Ellen Cannon (Nadine Eckhardt) on April 22, 1950 while both were students at North Texas State College. They had three children, Sidney Gail, Shelby Ellen, and William Raoul. The two were divorced in 1961. In 1963, Brammer married Dorothy Brown; they were divorced in 1969. Brammer died of a drug overdose on February 11, 1978.
Edwin "Bud" Shrake Jr. was born to Ruth and Edwin Shrake Sr. in Fort Worth, Texas on September 6, 1931. He was their first child, and took an early interest in writing and painting. By the fifth grade, Shrake had written his first short story, an adventure about World War II fighter pilots. In 1946 he entered Paschal High School in Fort Worth, and quickly became good friends with junior Dan Jenkins. The two future sportswriters, lifelong buddies and sometime-collaborators got their start writing for the Paschal Pantherette, the school newspaper.
Following high school Shrake enrolled for a year at Texas Christian University, then transferred to The University of Texas at Austin. After two semesters at UT, he returned to Fort Worth and with the help of Jenkins, found part-time work at the Fort Worth Press. Soon Shrake was working full-time at the Press alongside Jenkins and under the tutelage of sports-page editor, Blackie Sherrod. Shrake also returned to TCU, this time majoring in English and philosophy, and married Shakespearean scholar, Joyce Rogers.
In 1953, Shrake, having graduated from TCU, went to New York City to try to land a journalism job there. The New York Herald-Tribune showed interest in his writing, but then Shrake was called up to active duty in the army reserves. Shrake served stateside for two years, and in that time divorced and remarried Joyce. In 1955 he returned to Fort Worth, looking to pick up where he left off.
The Fort Worth Press hired Shrake back, but this time as a police reporter. Working his beat, he met another life-long friend and collaborator, Gary Cartwright, who reported for the rival newspaper, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Over the next few years, Shrake honed his skills at writing fiction and secured a literary agent. In 1958, Sherrod, having moved to the Dallas Times Herald, convinced Shrake to return to sports writing there. Shrake found success as a sportswriter at the Times Herald, and began to find some as a fiction and script writer too, selling his first short story and teleplay around this time. He also was determined to finish and publish his first novel, a western set among the Comanche and early settlers of Texas.
That novel, titled Blood Reckoning, was published by Bantam in 1962, and found some success in the pulp paperback market. Shrake by this time had moved to the Dallas Morning News as a sports columnist. His marriage to Joyce deteriorated a second time, and she left him, taking their two young boys with her. Shrake was hard at work on a second, more serious novel, when he met Doubleday editor Ken McCormick, who expressed great interest in the partial manuscript he had read on the sly in Shrake's apartment.
Shrake worked out a deal with the Morning News to be their "foreign correspondent" so he could travel Europe and finish the novel, which he did. In January 1964 Doubleday published But Not For Love and later that year he rejoined Dan Jenkins, this time in New York City at Sports Illustrated. The magazine's editor, Andre Laguerre, recognized Shrake's literary talents and sent him on more in-depth assignments as well as having him do the typical game reportage. Again Shrake used these traveling assignments to spend time researching and writing his fiction. His travels to the Southwest and Mexico in 1966-67 coincided with his work on a black-humor western set in the same locals.
Doubleday, wanting a book from Shrake on Dallas at the time of the Kennedy assassination, did not support his new novel, Blessed McGill. Although the book, published in January 1968, received favorable attention from literary writers and respected critics, Doubleday did very little to promote it, and the book soon disappeared from the bookshelves. Around this time Shrake made an arrangement with Laguerre that he could keep his job at Sports Illustrated and live somewhere else. Shrake chose Austin, Texas as his new home base, and moved there with Doatsy Shrake (nee Sedlmayr), whom he had married in 1966.
The next novel Shrake wrote, while on assignment in Asia for Sports Illustrated, was a Satyricon-inspired romp set among Texas oil barons, but he had trouble finding a publisher. In the spring of 1971, he went to London to write Strange Peaches, set in Dallas just before and after the Kennedy assassination. Largely autobiographical and based on actual events, Strange Peaches was published by Harper's Press in May 1972, but again disappeared quickly due to almost total lack of marketing effort by the publisher.
Around this time Shrake started turning his attention outside Sports Illustrated to screenwriting. His first two scripts, "Dime Box" and "J.W. Coop" (co-written with Gary Cartwright) were both produced, although the former was released (as Kid Blue) almost two years after production, with very little studio support behind it, and the latter resulted in a high-publicity court case versus the star, Cliff Robertson. This manner of frustrations and near-misses would follow Shrake for the next fifteen years or so as he wrote or co-wrote at least forty-two screenplays and teleplays, many of which were sold to studios but only seven of which actually made it to the screen, including Kid Blue and J.W. Coop.
Shrake did get two books published in the 1970s: Peter Arbiter—the Texas Satyricon novel—by Encino Press in 1973; and Limo—co-written with Dan Jenkins—by Atheneum in 1976. Much of the decade was spent on writing screenplays, partying with fellow members of Mad Dog Inc. (a satirical company he founded with Cartwright in 1970), and traveling on assignments for Sports Illustrated. However, by 1978 Shrake parted ways with the magazine to focus on an ambitious new novel about the early days of the Republic of Texas, and to keep pursuing a breakthrough in Hollywood. In 1979 and 1980 he saw two of his scripts turned into feature films: Nightwing, and Tom Horn, respectively.
Two more productions of Shrake's scripts followed in 1984: Songwriter and Pancho Villa's Wedding Day. Songwriter, starring Willie Nelson and Kris Kristofferson, was released by Tri-Star. Yet again, however, marketing mishaps and neglect doomed the work to near-oblivion, despite being well-received by the critics. Pancho Villa's Wedding Day was a movie script (under various versions and titles) that Shrake turned into a stage play. The play had two successful runs in Austin that year, first at the Zachary Scott Theatre then at the Austin Opry House.
That same year a doctor warned Shrake that he would have to clean up his lifestyle or he would be dead within six months. Shrake decided he better follow the doctor's orders, and in 1985 he returned to fiction again. His epic novel about the Republic of Texas, titled "Plum Creek," had been put aside due to lack of publisher interest. Instead he worked on a novel (Night Never Falls) about an alter-ego foreign correspondent who finds himself at Dien Bien Phu and revolutionary Algeria, among other locals. Shrake made a pact with himself to not only write the book without drinking booze, smoking cigarettes or snorting cocaine, but to not even mention Texas in it. Random House published the book in 1987. Then good friend Willie Nelson proposed something new: help him write Nelson's autobiography. Bud set out interviewing numerous acquaintances of Willie's, as well as Willie himself, and crafted a book that was told from both subject's and acquaintances' perspectives. Simon & Schuster published Willie in 1988, and it quickly became a best-seller. Bud Shrake had his first commercial hit on his hands, and it wouldn't be his last, or his biggest.
Another as-told-to biography immediately followed in 1990, this time of football coach Barry Switzer. The book was another best-seller, but it wasn't until Harvey Penick's Little Red Book, published in 1993, that Shrake really hit the big-time. As with Willie and Barry, Harvey was Bud's longtime friend who had a book deal and asked Shrake to collaborate with him. In this case, what Bud was working with was Harvey's lifetime of golfing wisdom, rather than his life story. The resulting Little Red Book was an instant phenomenon among golfers and became the best-selling sports book of all time. Three sequels quickly followed, along with an anthology and a boundless number of spin-off products.
Meanwhile, another movie collaboration with Willie Nelson and Kris Kristofferson was completed, this time for television. Another Pair of Aces, based on a script titled "RIP," co-written with Cartwright and dating back to the seventies, was produced in Austin and aired on CBS. Having been divorced from Doatsy for about ten years by now, Shrake became serious with old friend Ann Richards, shortly before she was elected governor of Texas in 1990. Bud accompanied Ann to many state functions during her four-year tenure. They remained close friends and companions until her death in 2006.
His foray into non-fiction having paid-off handsomely, Shrake returned once again to his first love, fiction. In 1996 he dusted off the "Plum Creek" novel after having let it sit untouched for almost 15 years. Numerous name changes and rewrites followed, and The Borderland was finally published, by Hyperion, in 2000. The next year Scribner published Billy Bud, a shorter, coming-of-age novel about a young golfer in 1950s Fort Worth.
In 2002, Shrake's writing returned to the stage, this time in London for Benchmark, a collaborative effort with stage writer and director Michael Rudman, another long-time friend. Starting around 2005, Shrake worked on a play eventually titled The Friend of Carlos Monzon, based on his experience in prison in Argentina in 1972 while on assignment there for Sports Illustrated. This play eventually was performed posthumously as an experimental, multi-media stage reading in 2010 at the Long Center in Austin. Also in the mid-2000s and in collaboration with Rudman, came Jack, a play set in Jack Ruby's nightclub in Dallas the night after the JFK assassination. To date, this play has yet to be produced.
While recuperating from kidney-removal surgery in late 2001, Shrake died and had an out-of-body experience with silent visitors who took him away, before being revived by hospital personnel. This life-changing experience would resurface in what would become his last-published novel, Custer's Brother's Horse. Set amid the chaos of post-Civil-War Texas, the book completed a trilogy of early Texas history that Shrake had written, with The Borderland and Blessed McGill being the other two. Another late-period novel that Shrake completed was a pseudo-memoir called "Malibu Zulu," written under a pen name and based on his experiences in Hollywood while working with Steve McQueen on Tom Horn. This novel was published in 2020 as Hollywood Mad Dogs as part of The Wittliff Collections Literary Series.
Shrake enjoyed a double round of press attention with Custer's Brother's Horse in late 2007 and Land of the Permanent Wave in the spring of 2008, an anthology of his writing that covers his entire career. In the fall of 2008, Shrake found out he had inoperable lung cancer. Over the past seven years he had beaten cancer twice before, so he began chemo treatment optimistically, and true to form, kept busy writing. He was working on a crime caper set in Fort Worth and Mexico in the 1950s at the time, but his health quickly deteriorated from the chemo, and he passed away on May 8, 2009. He is buried in the Texas State Cemetery in Austin, next to Ann Richards.
Although Shrake enjoyed the respect of critics and peers from New York to Hollywood, his talents have been most recognized by those in his home state. In 1987 he received a star on the Texas Walk of Fame, in Austin, along with Jenkins, Cartwright and Larry L. King. Later in life, he received two awards for his career in letters: the Texas Bookend Award from the Texas Book Festival, in 2002, and the Lon Tinkle Lifetime Achievement Award from the Texas Institute of Letters, in 2003.
In 2004, TCU Press published The Wittliff Collections' curator Steven L. Davis' Texas Literary Outlaws, a biography of Shrake, Cartwright, King, Jenkins, Billy Lee Brammer and Peter Gent. The book also serves as an invaluable chronicle and critique of these six men's literary achievements and intertwining friendships. In the concluding chapter, Davis addresses Shrake's talents and legacy:
"Shrake's refusal to be typecast alienated New York publishers because it kept them from building a market for his work. But the artistry apparent in each novel endures. The relative paucity of critical attention on Bud Shrake has deflected understanding of the sophisticated narrative techniques employed in his best work" (Texas Literary Outlaws, p. 455).
Davis then goes on to highlight what he considers Shrake's four best novels, and contends they deserve to stand beside the works of celebrated writers like Terry Southern, Leslie Marmon Silko, Ken Kesey and Kurt Vonnegut.
Many of Shrake's early books have been republished and remain in print to this day. Blessed McGill and Strange Peaches were both republished by Texas Monthly Press in 1987, and again by John M. Hardy Publishing Company in 2007. But Not For Love got a second chance by TCU Press in 2000. Limo was also republished in 2000, by Duane Press. Willie, The Borderland, Billy Boy, and the Harvey Penick books remain in print.
As for his films, J.W. Coop, Nightwing, Tom Horn and Songwriter are all available on DVD, Shortly before he passed away, Shrake recorded a commentary track with Gary Cartwright for an American DVD release of Kid Blue.
A.C. Greene named Blessed McGill in 1981 as one of Texas' fifty best books, describing it as having "an appreciation for the absurdities of existence, a recognition of irony's major role in the world, [and] highly suggestive humor" (Texas Monthly, Aug. 1981). The same compliment could be said for much of Shrake's work through the years, whether writing about crime on the police beat in Fort Worth, boxers and poker players on assignment for Sports Illustrated, filthy-rich and eccentric Dallasites in his novels, old-west and country-music outlaws in his movies, or a famous country singer, a football coach and a golf guru in his non-fiction.
Sources:
Bingamon, Brant. Interviews with Shrake via e-mail. 2008-2009.
Cartwright, Gary. "Shrake's Progress." Texas Monthly. April 2000.
Davis, Steven L., editor. Land of the Permanent Wave. UT Press, 2008.
Davis, Steven L. Texas Literary Outlaws. TCU Press, 2004.
Minor, Joel and Steve Davis interview with Shrake. November 18, 2008.
Playwright Preston Jones is best remembered for A Texas Trilogy, an evocative depiction of small town Texas life. Born in Albuquerque, New Mexico, on April 7, 1936, Preston developed an interest in the dramatic arts while attending the University of New Mexico. Though he graduated with a BA in education in 1960 and took a teaching position, drama professor Eddie Snapp continued to encourage Preston to study theater and steered him toward Baylor University in Waco, Texas. At the time, the Baptist school's Drama Department was headed by Snapp's former Yale classmate, Paul Baker, a nationally known figure in regional and experimental theater. Preston applied successfully to Baylor and while waiting to enroll, worked for the highway department in Colorado City, Texas, the place that later formed the basis for Bradleyville, the setting for A Texas Trilogy.
Preston completed his coursework at Baylor but before he could receive his degree, Paul Baker and the Baylor University administration had a falling out over the production of Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey Into Night. Baker moved his entire department to Trinity University in San Antonio in 1963 and Preston followed, receiving his Master's there in 1966. His thesis was a dramatization of the novel by David Grubb, The Night of the Hunter.
In 1959, Paul Baker became director of the newly formed Dallas Theater Center (DTC), which he headed in conjunction with his position as a drama department chairman. Baker invited Preston to join the DTC during his first year as a student at Baylor thus beginning the association with an important regional theater that lasted until the end of his life. In line with Baker's philosophy of non-specialization, Preston performed all duties in the theater: actor, director, stage manager, ticket taker, etc. As an actor, he appeared in Julius Caesar, Journey to Jefferson, Medea, A Streetcar Named Desire, What Price Glory, and The Girl of the Golden West. He played the stage manager in Our Town and Henry Drummond in Inherit the Wind. Preston's directing projects included Under the Yum-Yum Tree, Barefoot in the Park and The Knack. Preston was to credit this varied experience in the theater for his success in writing material for the stage.
It was through the Dallas Theater Center that Preston met his second wife, Mary Sue Birkhead Fridge. The two worked together in many Dallas Theater productions where Mary Sue was assistant director to Paul Baker as well as a popular actress and designer. Mary Sue, for her part, provided Preston with encouragement and support in his writing endeavors. Preston's admiration for his wife's talent was oft expressed. "I never belonged on the same stage as that woman," he told John Anders of the Dallas Morning News (July 5, 1992).
In 1972, Baker appointed Preston managing director of Down Center Stage, a smaller workshop theater in the Center. Jones wished to provide a stage for new works but the lack of good material inspired him to begin writing what became the Trilogy. The first of the three plays, The Knights of the White Magnolia, premiered at the Down Center Stage on December 4, 1973. Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander followed on February 5, 1974 and The Oldest Living Graduate in November of that year. Baker chose Knights and LuAnn (Graduate had not yet been completed) along with other original plays by resident playwrights to be presented in a spring showcase, Playmarket 74. Producers, agents and critics from around the world were invited to view these works, among them literary agent Audrey Wood and director Alan Schneider. Wood, who had discovered, among others, Tennessee Williams and William Inge, became Preston's agent and Schneider eventually directed the Trilogy in Washington, D. C. and New York City. In 1975, the three plays were performed together for the first time on the main stage of the Dallas Theater Center under the title, The Bradleyville Trilogy. That same year the American Playwright's Theater, which promotes the production of new works in theaters around the country, chose Knights as one of their offerings. In 1976, the renamed A Texas Trilogy played at the Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C. to popular and critical acclaim. Preston received a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to write a play for the American bicentennial and the Golden Apple Award from Cue magazine. After these initial successes, the Trilogy opened September 1976 on Broadway to a lukewarm response, closing after three weeks.
Preston returned to Dallas reassuming the varied tasks required of members of the company but by no means resting on his laurels as a playwright. His A Place on the Magdalena Flats played at the Dallas Theater Center in 1976 while the Trilogy wound its way from Washington to New York. Santa Fe Sunshine premiered at the Dallas Theater Center April 9, 1977. That same year, Preston won the Outer Critics Circle Award for the Trilogy and staged a tribute to Lady Bird Johnson on her 65th birthday. In 1978, Preston created the one-act Juneteenth for the Actors' Theater in Louisville, Kentucky, forming the plot around Black Texans' annual celebration of emancipation. This play was later presented with other one-acts on PBS's "Earplay" series under the title Holidays. In 1979, Remember was on the boards. While working on rewrites, Preston was also crafting a screenplay of the Trilogy for producer Hal Wallis.
Preston was slated to appear as the Duke of Norfolk in the Dallas Theater Center's production of A Man For All Seasons under Mary Sue's direction when he was suddenly taken ill and hospitalized. He died September 9, 1979 after surgery on a bleeding ulcer.
See also:
Busby, Mark. Preston Jones. Boise, Idaho: Boise State University Western Writers Series No. 58, 1983.
Born August 6, 1920 in Fort Worth, Texas, John Alexander Graves III grew up in that city until moving away to attend college in 1938. He graduated from Rice Institute (now Rice University) with a B.A. in English in 1942, then entered the Marine Corps and served in the Pacific theater until being wounded by a Japanese grenade on the island of Saipan. After the service, Graves traveled to Mexico for a few months then attended Columbia University, earning an M.A. in English from there in 1948. He began his professional writing career while still a graduate student by publishing a short story, titled "Quarry," in The New Yorker in 1947.
Graves taught English from 1948 to 1950 at The University of Texas at Austin, but left academia and Texas behind to spend a year freelance writing in New York City. From January 1953 to July 1955 he spent abroad, living mostly in Spain, including the Canary Islands for some months on a resident colony of writers and artists. During these years he wrote articles for publications like Holiday and Town and Country but also worked on fiction, including a semi-autobiographical novel, The Spotted Horse. Graves concentrated on finishing the novel after returning to the United States, but his agent rejected the final manuscript and Graves soon came to realize the novel was not publishable as a whole.
In the spring of 1957 Graves returned home to help care for his ill father. In November of that year, Graves completed a three-week canoe trip down part of the Brazos River that he feared was about to be changed forever by dams. His narrative chronicle of the trip was first published as a magazine article in Holiday, and later Graves added history, philosophy and folklore which resulted in his first major book, Goodbye to a River (1960). The book attracted national attention and critical praise for its original style. It won the Carr P. Collins Award of the Texas Institute of Letters in 1961 and was nominated for a National Book Award that year. In the meantime, Graves took a teaching job at Texas Christian University, married Jane Cole (his second marriage) and purchased the first of his limestone acres in Somervell County near the town of Glen Rose.
After three years assisting in and writing for a U.S. government study of pollution of the Potomac River, Graves returned to Texas and focused on converting his country acreage from a weekend getaway into a permanent home with a manageable farm and cattle ranch. In that time he also contributed to journals, magazines and books with introductions, articles, and essays—work that has continued to the present day. His observations and ruminations about his relationship with the land as a farmer and rancher led to the publication of his second major book, Hard Scrabble: Observations on a Patch of Land (1974). Hard Scrabble describes both the promise and adversity of country life, touching on subjects like animals, tools, construction, weather, water, ecology, agriculture, and migrant workers.
Starting in 1976, Graves again focused on life in the country in a series of essays that were published in Texas Monthly magazine. The essays examined topics such as fences, meat, tobacco, cows, chickens, dogs, and bees, and were collected and published for Graves' third major book, From a Limestone Ledge: Some Essays and Other Ruminations about Country Life in Texas (1980). Some essays follow up topics which he discussed in Hard Scrabble, but all focus on the "more or less country things which came to interest" Graves. From a Limestone Ledge was nominated for an American Book Award.
Although Graves has not published an extensive number of books, his contributions to magazines, books and anthologies spans over five decades. He has written introductions and narratives for a number of books and reports, often on Texas history and Texas environment, such as Cowboy Life on the Western Plains, Texas Heartland: A Hill Country Year and The Water Hustlers. Two of Graves' most famous magazine pieces, "The Last Running" and "Blue & Some Other Dogs," later became their own books, published first by Encino Press. Another well-received essay, "Recollections of a Texas Bird Glimpser," written for the art book, Of Birds and Texas (1986), transformed into a limited edition book, Self-Portrait, With Birds (1991).
In 1996 the University of Texas Press published A John Graves Reader, which gathered together fiction and non-fiction pieces, both published and unpublished, including a long, reworked excerpt from his failed novel, The Spotted Horse. More recently, Graves wrote text for the photography books Texas Rivers (2002) and Texas Hill Country (2003), and in 2004 Knopf published his memoir, Myself and Strangers, which focused on his years abroad as a freelance writer.
John Graves is one of the most important Southwestern writers. Three of his early short stories were collected in the O. Henry award series. He received a Guggenheim fellowship in 1963 and a Rockefeller fellowship in 1972. Numerous awards and recognitions have followed him throughout his writing career. Although he is generally considered a regional and nature writer due to his settings and subjects, his style, which incorporates fiction, folklore, autobiography, philosophy, and observation, defies provincial or topical boundaries. Perhaps the best example of this is Goodbye to a River, which has never gone out of print since first being published in 1960, and is still celebrated for its keen ruminations on the historical, attitudinal and natural worlds that intertwined around Graves as he canoed down the river.
Graves was married to the former Jane Cole of New York, and they had two daughters, Helen and Sally. John and Jane lived and worked on Hard Scrabble near Glen Rose until Graves' death in 2013.
Stephen Harrigan was born on October 5, 1948, and grew up in Oklahoma City, Abilene and Corpus Christi. After receiving a degree in English from The University of Texas at Austin in 1971, Harrigan briefly attended graduate school and worked as a yardman and as an ad writer for the University Co-op. He contributed articles to a number of magazines, including Rolling Stone, The Atlantic Monthly, Esquire and The Texas Observer. He became a regular writer for Texas Monthly shortly after its inception and co-founded and edited Lucille, a journal of poetry, which published 10 issues between 1974 and 1978.
Harrigan received a Dobie-Paisano fellowship in 1977, which allowed him to complete his first novel. Aransas, published by Knopf in 1980, tells the story of Jeff Dowling, an alienated young man who comes to terms with himself and the world as he trains two dolphins for a circus in Port Aransas, Texas. The New York Times named the novel one of the notable books of 1980, and reviewers praised its realism and style. His second novel, Jacob's Well, also focused on man's relationship with nature, following the lives of three people who are drawn together to explore an artesian well in Central Texas. The book was named one of the best books of 1984 by The Washington Post and The Dallas Morning News.
Harrigan's recent books, until the publication in 2000 of Gates of the Alamo, have been nonfiction. As a freelance writer and later staff writer and editor for Texas Monthly, Harrigan displayed a talent for journalism, contributing interviews and other investigative pieces, but he also focused on the natural environment, writing about rivers, Big Bend, Padre Island and other Texas landmarks. Many of these essays were collected in Harrigan's third book, A Natural State: Essays on Texas (1988), which was recently republished by the University of Texas Press. His 1992 book Water and Light: A Diver's Journey to a Coral Reef combined research on aquatic life with his own experiences scuba diving off a coral reef in the Caribbean. The New York Times Book Review called Water and Light "moving, intelligent ... literary," and praised Harrigan's "remarkable ability to discuss the metaphysical and spiritual aspects of underwater exploration." Harrigan has also published a book of poetry and written screenplays, one of which, The Last of His Tribe, was broadcast on HBO.
Harrigan's works are characterized by an intense interest in humans and their relationship to the environment around them. He once wrote of his interest in natural subjects: "I don't know what nature is exactly--whether it is a category that includes human beings or shuts them out--but for me it has always contained that hint of eeriness, the sense that some vital information--common knowledge to all the universe--has been specifically withheld from me. Sometimes, as with the snake, this secrecy has seemed malevolent, but far more often it has been wonderfully tantalizing. For much of my life I have been obsessed with nature, but not in the way a naturalist would be obsessed with it--driven to classify, to define relationships, to comprehend the world's marvelous intricacy. I have simply wanted to feel more fully a part of that intricacy, to see something other than neutral scorn in the eyes of that half-imagined snake." (Introduction to A Natural State, UT Press, 1994)
Harrigan lives in Austin with his wife Sue Ellen and three daughters.
Hart Stilwell was born in 1902 in Yoakum, Texas. When he was two, his large family relocated to the Rio Grande Valley, an area they would roam throughout Stilwell's childhood as his father sought undeveloped farmland and the freedom of the frontier. Stilwell's upbringing was marked by psychological and physical conflict with his father, a former Texas Ranger prone to sudden mood-swings and threats of violence.
At the age of seventeen Stilwell entered The University of Texas at Austin, where he worked for The Daily Texan and graduated with a degree in journalism in 1924. One of his first jobs was as a reporter for The Brownsville Herald, a paper he also edited for two years. In the late 1920s Stilwell lost interest in working full-time and turned to free-lance writing, although for the rest of his life he regularly contributed articles to newspapers across Texas, including The San Antonio Light, The Houston Chronicle, and The Austin American-Statesman.
Stilwell's first novel was published in 1945. An indictment of race relations in the Rio Grande Valley, Border Town was narrated by a cynical reporter in love with a Mexican woman who had been raped by a wealthy Anglo businessman. Two years later, Stilwell published his most critically acclaimed novel, Uncovered Wagon, which included a thinly fictionalized account of Stilwell's relationship with his father, called "The Old Man" in the book. Uncovered Wagon was named one of the fifty best books of Texas by A.C. Greene, who wrote "you don't find many Texas writers who can face the bitter reality of rural poverty in a changing society as Stilwell does." Stilwell published a third novel, Campus Town, which was less successful than the others. All of his novels draw heavily from personal experience (Stilwell's daughter called Uncovered Wagon an "autobiography" and said that Stilwell changed names and place names only after his mother objected to the harshness of his narrative) and are marked by a fierce liberalism and hatred of intolerance. Stilwell was also known for his nonfiction. He collaborated with Slats Rogers on Rogers' autobiography and helped write a book on neglected children, titled The Child Who Walks Alone, with his social worker wife, Anne Stilwell. He was an avid sportsman and published two well-known books on hunting and fishing in Texas and Mexico. Field and Stream, Outdoor, Hunting Yearbook, and other outdoor sports magazines also published articles by Stilwell. In the early 1970s he began work on a full-length book on human interference in the natural world; he was particularly concerned about the domestication of wild animals and the increasing use of biological engineering on animals and plants consumed by humans. Stilwell was working on this book, tentatively titled The Great White Immaculate Bird and Other Toys, along with a manuscript on fishing, a children's book on wolves, and a number of short essays when he died on May 13, 1975 in Austin.
Stilwell married twice and had two children. His daughter, Mary Gray Hughes, is also a writer.
Novelist, essayist, and screenwriter Larry McMurtry was born June 3, 1936 in Wichita Falls, Texas. He grew up on a ranch just outside of Archer City and graduated from Archer City High School in 1954. He attended North Texas State University (B.A. 1958), then Rice University (1954, 1958-60, M.A. 1960), and studied for one semester outside of Texas at Stanford University as a Stegner Fellow (1960-61).
McMurtry published his first novels while working as an English instructor at Texas Christian University (1961-62), Rice University (1963-65), George Mason College (1970), and American University, (1970-71). In 1962, he won the Texas Institute of Letters Jesse M. Jones award, and in 1964, he won a Guggenheim grant. In 1970, he bought a rare-book store in Washington D.C.'s Georgetown neighborhood, named it Booked Up, and relocated to run the store. A second Booked Up was opened in Archer City, Texas, in 1988.
His first seven novels were all set in Texas, some in the country, some in urban settings. The first three were made into movies. Despite the critical and popular success of "Hud" (Horseman Pass By) and "The Last Picture Show," for which McMurtry wrote the Academy award winning screenplay (1972), he perceived a lack of appropriate recognition for his work in general. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, he wore a t-shirt which read "Minor Regional Novelist," to help make this point. McMurtry's urban trilogy, set in contemporary Houston, Moving On (1970), All My Friends Are Going to Be Strangers (1972), and Terms of Endearment (1975), all deal with love and marriage, and are examples of McMurtry's ability to consistently create a strong sense of place, characters, and dialogue. Terms of Endearment would later be translated into Finnish, French, German, Japanese, Portuguese, and Spanish, and made into a very popular movie by the same name (1983), starring Jack Nicholson, Shirley MacLaine, John Hurt, and Debra Winger. Following this trilogy, McMurtry looked outside of Texas for settings: Somebody's Darling (1978) set in Hollywood, California, Cadillac Jack (1982) set in Washington D.C., and The Desert Rose (1983) set in Las Vegas. These novels involve characters seeking meaning in urban life and were not as critically or commercially successful as McMurtry's novels set in Texas.
In 1985, McMurtry published Lonesome Dove, the story of two ex-Texas Rangers who take on a cattle drive from Texas to Montana. This novel won McMurtry a Pulitzer Prize, as well as widespread critical and commercial success. The novel was brought to the small screen in 1989, in a very popular television mini-series of the same name, making McMurtry even more of a household name. Since writing Lonesome Dove, McMurtry has continued to write novels set in both contemporary and historical Texas with characters grappling with old and new lifestyles and values. These novels have been commercially successful, although not to the same degree as Lonesome Dove. McMurtry announced that he would retire from novel writing with the 1999 novel Duane's Depressed, however he published a biography on Crazy Horse and an autobiographical reminiscence, Walter Benjamin at the Dairy Queen, in the same year.
McMurtry passed away March 25, 2021.
Sterling VanWagenen produced "The Trip to Bountiful" with screenwriter Horton Foote. VanWagenen was a co-founder of the United States Film Festival and the Sundance Institute, and served as the executive director of the latter organization for five years. He is also known as a director of stage and screen, and he has produced both films and documentaries. He currently heads the Leucadia Film Corporation in Salt Lake City, Utah.
"The Trip to Bountiful" was first written in 1953 by Horton Foote for the "Philco/Goodyear Television Playhouse," and starred Lillian Gish. A longer version opened eight months later on Broadway to critical acclaim. Thirty years later, Peter Masterson, an award-winning actor and director, approached his cousin Horton Foote about making "The Trip to Bountiful" into a movie. Masterson then contacted VanWagenen, who agreed to produce the film. Filming began in the summer of 1985 on location in Texas, and was completed in five weeks. The film starred Geraldine Page (in an Oscar-winning performance), John Heard, Carlyn Glynn, Richard Bradford, and Rebecca De Mornay.
Poet Albert Goldbarth was born on January 31, 1948 in Chicago, Illinois. He earned a B.A. in English from the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle in 1969 and a M.F.A. in Creative Writing from the University of Iowa in 1971. Goldbarth began a long teaching career in 1971 at Elgin (Illinois) Community College. His first book of poetry, Coprolites, was published in 1973, followed by Jan. 31 which was nominated in 1975 for the National Book Award), and Opticks in 1974. Also in 1974, Goldbarth began work towards a doctorate in Creative Writing at the University of Utah. Continuing to write and publish poetry throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Goldbarth won two National Endowment for the Arts Creative Writing Fellowships (1979-1980, 1986-1987), a Guggenheim Fellowship (1984), and two Voertman Poetry Awards from the Texas Institute of Letters (for Different Fleshes in 1980 and for Original Light in 1984). Goldbarth has taught English at Cornell University (1974-1976), Syracuse University (1976-1977), University of Texas at Austin (1977-1987), and at Wichita State University (1987-present).
Alvin Carl Greene (1923-2002) was born and raised in Abilene, Texas. He left Texas during World War II and served in the U.S. Navy and Marines. After a four-year stint in the military, Greene received a B.A. from Abilene Christian College in 1948 and began working as a reporter for the Abilene Reporter-News. He remained on the staff for 12 years and also ran a bookstore in Abilene from 1952 to 1957.
In 1960, Greene joined The Dallas Morning News as book editor and editorial columnist. Eight years later he left to concentrate on writing and received a Dobie-Paisano fellowship which allowed him to finish his acclaimed book, A Personal Country, in 1969. Greene went on to publish many books and articles in the 1970s and 1980s. The range of Greene's writing has been very broad, although he is closely tied to the subject of Texas. His books cover cities in Texas, historical events in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, personal reminiscences, and literary criticism. He also worked at KERA-TV in Dallas as news commentator from 1970 through 1977 and has reviewed books for the MacNeil/Lehrer News Hour. Greene taught journalism at Hardin-Simmons University, The University of Texas at Austin, and Southern Methodist University, and served as Coordinating Director of the Center for Texas Studies at the University of North Texas in Denton.
Health problems in the late 1980s kept him from writing, but after receiving a heart transplant Greene recovered and published a book, Taking Heart, about his illness. Greene was a member of PEN International, the Writers Guild of America, and the Texas Institute of Letters. He passed away in 2002.
Nature photographer James Clinton Bones was born in 1943 in Monroe, Louisiana. Since 1975, Bones has been a freelance photographer and wilderness guide in New Mexico, where he now lives. Bones has published five books of photography, with work included in several others. He has exhibited frequently and has produced environmental documentaries for Texas public television.
J. Frank Dobie, teacher, storyteller, folklorist, historian, and author, was born September 18, 1888 on a ranch in the South Texas brush country of Live Oak County. Raised in the toughening, physically bracing traditions of a remote ranching region, Dobie nonetheless developed an early love for language and literature. His mother encouraged reading, providing her children with mail-ordered books, and his father developed the boy's narrative sense with nightly readings of the King James version of the bible. Dobie's mother saw to it that he and his siblings were sent away to relatives in the small town of Alice so that they could obtain the requisite schooling to pursue higher education.
Dobie received his BA from Southwestern University in Georgetown, Texas. There, under the influence of Professor Albert Shipp Pegues, he became enthralled by the English romantic poets. There too he met the poetry-loving Bertha McKee, who would become his wife, lifelong companion, adviser, booster and critic. After Dobie received his degree in 1910, he taught at a high school in Alpine, Texas and worked summers as a newspaper reporter. Deciding he wished to teach poetry at a more advanced level than high school, Dobie pursued a Masters at Columbia University. He later admitted to being only a lackluster student who learned more from New York and the New York theater than he did from the university.
Returning to Texas, Dobie joined the English Department of the University of Texas at Austin. In his first year there, he officed with Stith Thompson who introduced him to the organization with which he became so closely identified, the Texas Folklore Society World War I soon wrested Dobie from the classroom and he was sent overseas shortly before the armistice. While he missed the fighting, he took the opportunity to acquaint himself with Europe.
Dobie returned to the University of Texas English Department after his discharge from the army. Still ambivalent about his life's direction, he left UT in 1920 to run an uncle's ranch. The ranching stint was unsuccessful and he returned to teaching, writing his wife that "in the university I am a wild man; in the wilds I am a scholar and a poet" (Tinkle 102). He began to settle on a scholarly pursuit that could make use of both environments. Dobie had enjoyed listening to the stories of one of his uncle's vaqueros, Santos Cortez. "It came to me that I would collect and tell the legendary tales of Texas as Lomax had collected the old-time songs and ballads of Texas and the frontier. I thought that the stories of the range were as interesting as the songs. I considered that if they could be put down so as to show the background out of which they have come they might have high value" (Tinkle 102). From that point, Dobie actively pursued the folk legends of the Southwest in his travels, readings, and writings. Dobie became editor of the Texas Folklore Society in 1921. He took a strong hand in the independent direction of the organization, which still follows the standards he set. Under Dobie, the Texas Folklore Society broke from the practices of the American Folklore Society. The national branch examined the subject from an objective scholarly viewpoint while Dobie and his followers instead collected and presented folklore as a living, breathing, participatory endeavor.
Dobie's second book, Coronado's Children, received national attention and broadened substantially the Texas writer's audience. In 1932, Dobie ventured into broadcasting with the radio program "Longhorn Luke and his Cowboys." He also published articles in magazines and continued to put out his folklore books. He frequently traveled in search of material for his books, and he became a popular speaker on the lecture circuit. In 1939, he began his syndicated newspaper column "My Texas." Successful in each medium, Dobie came to symbolize the essence of Texas in the popular mind.
Through all this activity, Dobie remained based at the University of Texas in Austin. In 1930, he introduced his course Life and Literature of the Southwest, and it became the most popular offering on campus. Its curriculum was copied in universities across the state. Dobie had always had a prickly relationship with the University of Texas based partly on his refusal to seek a PhD and partly on his belief that the Southwest was a sufficient scholarly focus in its own right. In 1943, Dobie left UT to serve a two-year stint as lecturer on American History in Cambridge, England. Upon his return, Dobie jumped right into a heated controversy when he spoke out in defense of Homer Price Rainey, president of the University of Texas, in the fight with the Board of Regents. In 1947, when then University president Theophilus Painter refused to grant Dobie another leave, Dobie resigned with the administration's acquiescence. He remained at his home in the University area and was always associated with the University of Texas though his formal days as a teacher were over.
Dobie endeared himself to the public both through his personality and his brand of tale telling. He boldly used his popularity to speak out on social issues and other causes that captured his attention. An ardent individualist, he constantly railed against censorship, demagogic religiosity, and those who would impede freedom of thought. "I have come to value liberated minds as the supreme good of life on earth" (Some Part of Myself 6). He championed black voting rights in 1945 and supported organized labor's right to strike. He considered certain college departments unsatisfactory as programs of learning. Journalism, he said, was the unctuous elaboration of the obvious. Of education-trained teachers he commented, "I have never encountered one possessed of a first class mind, though I have encountered a few fairly good ones. Many are dull well-meanders, cunning climbers, exponents of the paltry, and, worst of all, duelers of eager searching intelligence--especially of intelligence lodged in teachers not willing to knuckle" (Tinkle 170).
After Dobie's death in September of 1964, his wife Bertha, who had worked so closely with him throughout their life together, saw to the publication of two books under Dobie's name based on his notes. The Dobies had no children of their own but were particularly fond of Bertha's nephew, Edgar Kincaid. Kincaid moved in with the Dobies when he became a student at the University of Texas, and he remained in their Austin house on 26th Street to tend to them in their old age. Kincaid was an avid ornithologist and editor of The Bird Life of Texas (1974).
The Dobie name today is often spoken in the same breath with that of his two University of Texas contemporaries, the historian Walter Prescott Webb and the naturalist Roy Bedichek. The three friends have been titled Texas' intellectual triumvirate and are considered the forerunners to Texas literature. "[They] were living proof that serious persons could do independent cultural work in Texas" (Texas Observer 18).
Joe Frantz remarked that Dobie was "Texas' first liberated mind to achieve a wide audience and the first truly professional writer produced by the state" (Third Coast 1983). Many Texas writers openly credit Dobie with giving them the inspiration not only to be a writer but also to feel comfortable using their home state as a subject. Billy Lee Brammer admitted, "It never occurred to me--ever--until I read Frank Dobie, that I could be a writer. There simply were no writers in Texas" (Texas Observer 21). Fred Gipson confided that he had never realized it was possible to live in Texas and be a writer until Dobie set the example (Austin American Statesman B5). Publisher and screenwriter Bill Wittliff wrote Bertha on Dobie's death that "Dobie was the prime moving force of my life." Bertha and friends established a most fitting memorial to Dobie in light of his contribution to Texas letters, the Dobie-Paisano fellowship. The award provides money for writers and artists to work on their projects during a six month stay on Dobie's Paisano ranch in the hill country outside of Austin.
Bibliography:
Dobie, J. Frank. Some Part of Myself. Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1967.
Dugger, Ronnie, "Dobie, Bedichek, Webb: Workers in the Culture," The Texas Observer 19 Aug. 1983: 18.
Frantz, Joe, "The Forty Acre Follies," The Third Coast, Dec. 1983: 100.
Porterfield, Billy, "Dobie's Roots Helped Texas Writers Blossom" The Austin American-Statesman, 24 Sep. 1990: B1.
Tinkle, Lon. An American Original. Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1978.
For further information on Dobie and his work see:
Dugger, Ronnie, ed. Three Men in Texas. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1967.
McVicker, Mary Louise. The Writings of J. Frank Dobie: A Bibliography. Lawton, Ok: Museum of the Great Plains, 1968.
Stone, Paul Clois. "J. Frank Dobie and the American Folklore Movement." Diss. Yale University, 1995.
For a history of the disposition of Dobie's manuscripts see:
Holland, Richard. "A Corner Forever Texas." Corners of Texas. Ed. Francis Edward Abernethy. Denton: University of North Texas Press, 1993.
Novelist, essayist, and short story writer Rick Bass was born March 7, 1958 in Fort Worth, Texas. He was raised in Houston and graduated with a B.S. in Geology from Utah State University in 1979. Employed as a petroleum geologist in Mississippi from 1979 to 1987, Bass has since written full time on environmental issues and the vanishing wilderness. Bass has been an active environmentalist and member of the Sierra Club, Montana Wilderness Association, Cabinet Resources Group, Round River Conservation Studies, and the Yaak Valley Forest Council. He regularly publishes articles in magazines such as Field and Stream, Sports Afield, Gray's Sporting Journal, Outdoor Life, and others. Bass and his wife Elizabeth moved to Montana's Yaak Valley in 1987, where Bass finds the isolation he requires to write.
Describing Bass's storytelling voice, Leigh Tillman Partington writes that Bass tells a story "true, strong, and intimate; the details of his language are lush and pure, providing just the right amount of landscape and inner turmoil. Above all, his stories are about precarious balances: between men and women, children and adults, friends, lovers, and between humans and the natural world. His language reflects that balance. Like Eudora Welty, to whom he is often compared, Bass plays close attention to inner and outer surfaces, watching where and how they meet, and he captures those meeting places on the page" (Contemporary Southern Writers, 1999).
Willie Hugh Nelson was born April 30, 1933. After his parents separated, he and his older sister Bobbie were raised by their musically inclined grandparents in Abbott, Texas. The children were started early on instruments--Bobbie on piano and Willie on guitar. By age 10, Nelson was playing in Central Texas communities with a polka band. After high school and many odd jobs, Nelson sold his songs "Family Bible" and "Night Life" and made his way to Nashville in order to establish himself in the cradle of country music. Nelson's talents were quickly recognized by other Nashville artists. They recorded his songs and helped him to get jobs. But Nelson's own recordings received little notice by the public. When promoter Crash Stewart told him his lyrics were ahead of his time he answered that "he wished the world would hurry and catch up with him as he needed the money" (Family Album). After a little more than 10 years struggling in Nashville, Nelson's ranch house burned to the ground and he decided to return to his home state.
In 1971, back in Central Texas, Nelson found himself suddenly in the right place at the right time. Nelson's eclectic style and warm stage presence found a receptive audience in a music scene that came to be labeled progressive country. At a time when a suit, a tie, and a clean-shaven face were the signature look of the country and western singer, Nelson adopted the more informal style of the younger members of his audience--long hair, beard, jeans, and a bandanna. A Nashville colleague told him "No one ever heard of you till you got ugly." In 1973, Nelson held his first annual 4th of July picnic in Dripping Springs, Texas and the sweltering Independence Day celebrations became a huge event into the 1980s. During these years, Nelson became a nationally successful country and western singer who secured his status as a popular mainstream artist with the 1975 release of the concept album, The Redheaded Stranger.
Established as a major star in the music world, Nelson then branched into acting beginning with a small part in The Electric Horseman (1979). He starred in his next film, Honeysuckle Rose (1980), which was co-written by fellow Texan Bill Wittliff. The two collaborated again in Barbarosa (1982) and in the dramatization of Nelson's album Red Headed Stranger (1986).
In 1985, Nelson's concern for failing family farms led him to organize Farm Aid concerts in which he and other entertainers raised money to help small farmers keep their land. The effort provided welcome relief to thousands but did not stem the tide of disappearing family farms. By 1995, with seven Farm Aid concerts behind him, Nelson commented "all the money we raise these days is going to farmers who are already out of business. The [agribusiness] corporations are the only guys making money" (Parade, August 20, 1995, 14).
Nelson found himself owing the Internal Revenue Service millions in back taxes for the years from 1975 through 1981 due to what he avowed was bad advice and bad investments. In 1990, much of Nelson's property was seized and auctioned off. Nelson's friends and fans helped him by taking up collections and buying up his property so that he would be able to eventually buy it back. Nelson committed himself to paying off the monumental debt of taxes, interest, and penalties. He worked hard, doing a full schedule of road shows and selling an album, Who'll buy My Memories: The I.R.S. Tapes, through an 800 number. By mid-1994, Nelson had settled his obligation.
Nelson has recorded a prodigious body of work including the best selling albums Shotgun Willie (Atlantic, 1973), Phases and Stages (Atlantic, 1974), Red Headed Stranger (Columbia, 1975), The Outlaws (RCA, 1976), Stardust (Columbia 1978), Waylon and Willie (RCA, 1978), Honeysuckle Rose (Columbia, 1980), The Highwaymen (Columbia, 1985) and Across the Borderline (Columbia, 1991). He has received many honors and numerous awards throughout his career. He was inducted into the Nashville Songwriters Association Hall of Fame in 1973. In 1975, he received his first Grammy for Best Male Country Vocal Performance for "Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain." In 1978, he received the same award for "Georgia on My Mind." In 1976, the Country Music Association named Wanted: The Outlaws the album of the year and "Good Hearted Woman" the single of the year. The CMA awarded him the coveted Entertainer of the Year award in 1979. He received a Grammy for the Best Country Song for "On the Road Again" in 1981 and the Grammy Award for lifetime achievement in 1989. He was inducted into the Country Music Association Hall of Fame in 1993. Now in his sixties, a recognized living legend, the singer/songwriter continues to perform, write songs, and record. "All I do is make music and play golf and I wouldn't want to give up either one" (Contemporary Musicians 173).
C. W. Smith was born in Corpus Christi, March 28, 1940. Currently a professor of English at Southern Methodist University, Smith has been a reporter, critic, screenwriter and novelist. He was a Dobie-Paisano Fellow from 1974 to 1975 and President of the Texas Institute of Letters from 1981 to 1983. He has won the Texas Institute of Letters Jesse Jones Award for best novel in 1973 and the Stanley Walker Award for Journalism in 1985. He has written for magazines and journals including the Dallas Times Herald, Esquire, and Mademoiselle.
Robert Flynn was born April 12, 1932, in Chillicothe, Texas. He graduated with a degree in drama from Baylor University in 1954. After teaching speech and drama for two years at Gardner-Webb College in North Carolina, Flynn returned to Baylor as an assistant professor in the Drama Department. When the Baptist university closed down the 1962 production of Long Days Journey Into Night, Flynn followed the entire drama faculty, headed by department chair Paul Baker, to Trinity University, where Flynn continues to hold a position in the English Department as writer-in-residence.
In 1964, Flynn adapted William Faulkner's As I Lay Dying to the stage in a play entitled Journey to Jefferson. The Dallas Theater Center Production directed by Paul Baker won a Special Jury Award at the Theater of Nations in Paris in 1964. In 1967, Knopf published Flynn's first novel, North to Yesterday, a hilarious trail driving adventure that is "at the same time . . . an ungentle satire on the foolishness of those who live in the past as well as the blindness of those who turn their backs on it."(Garfield 38). This was followed by two other works published by Knopf In the House of the Lord (1969), The Sounds of Rescue, the Signs of Hope (1970), and by Wanderer Springs (1987), published by Texas Christian University Press. Flynn has published two collections of short stories, Seasonal Rain (1986), and Living with the Hyenas (1995).
Flynn had temporarily dropped out of college to serve two years with the Marines during the Korean War. In 1970 after many years in academia, he sought out a position as a war correspondent to Vietnam, eventually getting his credentials through True Magazine. Flynn spent two months in Vietnam and was profoundly affected by the experience. He ultimately wrote a memoir, A Personal War in Vietnam, published in 1989 and a novel, The Last Klick, published in 1994.
Two stories in Seasonal Rain were winners in the NEA/PEN Syndicated Fiction Project. Wanderer Springs won a Spur Award from Western Writers of America and North to Yesterday won a Western Heritage Wrangler Award from the National Cowboy Hall of Fame.
Bibliography:
Garfield, Brian, Saturday Evening Post, July 22, 1967: 38.
Fred and Barbara Whitehead's Whitehead and Whitehead Publishing Services provided artwork for book and poster illustrations as well as consultation on book production and design. Barbara Whitehead executed the designs while Fred Whitehead, also an artist, tended to the business end of the enterprise. Barbara Whitehead began her career as an illustrator in 1969 for Bill Wittliff's Encino Press after graduating from the University of Texas with a Master of Book Arts. The Whiteheads together also provided services for other Austin fine book printers David Lindsey, Thomas W. Taylor, and David Holman. Their designs have been used by the university presses of the University of Texas, Southern Methodist University and Texas Christian University. The Texas Institute of Letters granted Whitehead and Whitehead design awards twice: in 1982 for Journey to Pleasant Hill and in 1983 for Barbara Whitehead's book illustrations of R. G. Vliet's Clem Maverick.  Fred Whitehead passed away July 1993 but Barbara Whitehead continues the business.
Shelby Hearon was born January 18, 1931 in Kentucky. After earning a BA in 1953 from the University of Texas at Austin, she settled down to marriage and family. She began her first novel Armadillo in the Grass in 1962 and submitted it to Knopf in 1967. Knopf accepted the manuscript "over the transom" and Hearon's career as a writer was launched.
Hearon has written 16 novels through 2005. She received an Ingram Merrill grant in 1987, a National Endowment for the Arts Creative Writing Fellowship in 1983, and the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship for Fiction in 1982. Hearon won the Texas Institute of Letters Fiction award in 1973 for The Second Dune and in 1978 for A Prince of a Fellow. She has been a five-time recipient of the NEA/PEN syndication Short Story Prize.
In addition to writing novels, Hearon lectures, teaches writing, and contributes articles to national publications.
Books by Hearon:
Armadillo in the Grass (1968)
The Second Dune (1973)
Hannah's House (1975)
Now and Another Time (1976)
A Prince of a Fellow (1978)
Barbara Jordan, a self portrait (1979)
Painted Dresses (1981)
Afternoon of a Faun (1983)
Group Therapy (1984)
A Small Town (1985)
500 Scorpions (1986)
Owning Jolene (1989)
Hug Dancing (1991)
Life Estates (1994)
Footprints (1996)
Ella in Bloom (2001)
Bill Wittliff was born in Taft, a small town in south Texas, in 1940. After his parents divorced, he and his brother Jim moved with their mother to Gregory, Texas, where Mrs. Wittliff ran a small telephone office during World War II (these experiences provided the basis for "Raggedy Man," Wittliff's feature film). Later, when his mother remarried, the family moved to a ranch in Blanco, a rural community of 700 in the hill country of central Texas.
In 1964, shortly after graduating from the University of Texas, Wittliff, with his wife Sally, founded a book publishing company, The Encino Press, which specialized in regional material about Texas and the Southwest. To date, Encino has won over 100 awards for quality of design and content. The press operated out of a 19th-century Victorian house in Austin in which O. Henry once lived and wrote.
An accomplished photographer, Wittliff's photographs documenting the life of the Mexican vaquero (taken 1969-71) have been exhibited in numerous galleries and institutions throughout this country and in Mexico, including the National Cowboy Hall of Fame, the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City, and the Texas Capitol. In Japan, they represented the United States during its bicentennial year. After twenty years, the exhibit is still shown as a traveling display in the U. S. and Mexico under the auspices of the Institute of Texan Cultures.
At 29, Wittliff was elected to the Texas Institute of Letters. He served as president during 1974-78, and sat on the Executive Council until 1990. In 1993, he was elected Fellow of the Institute. He is a member of the historic Texas Philosophical Society, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences; and he served for six years on the Executive Board of Trustees of Robert Redford's Sundance Institute.
In 1985, with the donation of their lifelong collection of original manuscripts and books, Bill and Sally founded the Southwestern Writers Collection at Southwest Texas State University. Since that time the collection has grown rapidly, supported by donors from all over the country. It features original manuscripts by J. Frank Dobie, John Graves, Larry McMurtry, Walter Prescott Webb, Bud Shrake, Larry L. King, Horton Foote, Preston Jones, Sam Shepard, Willie Nelson, and many others. It also includes paintings by numerous regional artists including William Lester, Tom Lea, John Groth, Jerry Bywaters, Kermit Oliver, Robert Wade. Expanding the scope of the current facility, in 1996 the Wittliffs endowed the Wittliff Gallery of Southwestern and Mexican Photography which already includes works by Russell Lee, Manuel Alvarez Bravo, Ansel Adams, Keith Carter, Henri Cartier Bresson, Lola Bravo, Laura Gilpin, Edward Weston, Graciela Iturbide, Edward Curtis, Nacho Lopez, Erwin E. Smith, Marco Antonio Cruz, Jim Bones, Paul Strand, Mariana Yampolsky, and many others. Both collections are housed in eight specially designed rooms and a large, chambered gallery on the top floor of the Albert B. Alkek Library on the university campus.
Jesse Sublett was born May 15, 1954, in Johnson City, Texas. He was valedictorian of Johnson City's LBJ High School Class of 1972, and attended Southwest Texas State University from 1972-1974 as an English major.
From 1974 until 1986 Sublett lived in Austin, where he played a dominant role in defining the live music scene as bass player and/or lead singer for a number of bands, most notably The Skunks, who recorded three records between 1978 and 1983.
During this time, Sublett began writing short pieces for the Austin Chronicle, including record and restaurant reviews, and in 1984 he was assigned to write a short piece on the club circuit which bands like The Skunks played. Instead, he submitted a semi-parodic music mystery entitled "Traveling the Hardboiled Highway," which imitated the style of a hardboiled detective novel. This marked the birth of Martin Fender, the central character in Sublett's first three novels. He submitted a second Fender piece, "The Nature of the Crime," which the Chronicle's editorial staff declined to publish but which they encouraged him to re-work as a novel. After finishing the re-titled Capitol Crimes, he wrote Rock Critic Murders with the intention of selling the two novels as a series. While waiting for the attention of publishers on the first two books, he began work on a third novel, Blunt Instrument. In 1987 he moved to Los Angeles in order to be closer to the spirit of his hero Raymond Chandler. He continued to play music on the West Coast while awaiting responses from publishers and re-writing Blunt Instrument. Shortly thereafter, Lisa Kaufman at Viking took an interest in his work and agreed to publish Rock Critic Murders. Sublett has written several screenplays, and served as story editor for the Disney series Adventures of the Old West. During 1994-1995 he ventured into nonfiction, writing a history of the Texas Turnpike Authority.
Sublett now lives in Austin with his wife Lois Richwine, their son Dashiell, and two cats.
Bill Crawford and Joe Nick Patoski have been involved in writing and the music industry for most of their adult lives. From 1990 to 1993, they combined their literary talents and connections with the music industry insiders to write an unauthorized biography of blues guitar legend Stevie Ray Vaughan (1954-1990), who died in a helicopter accident near East Troy, Wisconsin. In spring 1993, Little, Brown & Co. published Crawford and Patoski's Stevie Ray Vaughan: Caught in the Crossfire. Michael Pietsch provided editorial assistance.
Born in New York City in 1955, Bill Crawford attended Andover and Harvard, where he majored in comparative religion. He moved to Texas after graduation and became involved in radio. He worked as a disc jockey at a music station in Midland and later earned a masters degree in business administration at the University of Texas at Austin. A freelance writer and radio and television producer since 1981, Crawford has produced segments for Music Television and the nationally syndicated public affairs program, Asian Communique. He was an associate editor of Third Coast magazine, and has written on media and business for Texas Business, Texas Monthly, and other publications. He was co-author of the book, Border Radio: Quacks, Yodelers, Pitchmen Psychics, and Other Amazing Broadcasters of the American Airwaves, published by Texas Monthly Press in 1987.
Joe Nick Patoski moved with his family to Fort Worth in 1953, at the age of two. He attended the University of Texas at El Paso, the University of Minnesota, and the University of Texas at Austin, where he began his career as a writer and consultant in the music business in 1972. Starting as a columnist with the Daily Texan, the newspaper of the University of Texas at Austin, Patoski soon earned a reputation as one of the most respected critics of pop culture in the Southwest. He worked as a stringer for Rolling Stone from 1974 to 1980, and as contributing editor for Texas Monthly from 1975 to 1980. During the early 1980s, Patoski was the manager and executive producer for several top Texas rock and roll bands, and toured the United States, Europe, and South America. In 1985, Patoski was named an associate editor at Texas Monthly. In October 1990, he wrote an article for Texas Monthly commemorating Stevie Ray Vaughan. Patoski has written on various other topics, covering the entire range of Texas cultures. His work has also appeared in Mother Jones, Village Voice, and Conde Nast Traveler, as well as numerous other publications.
Perhaps best known for her bestselling historical romance novel, Love Is a Wild Assault, Elithe Hamilton Kirkland was also a poet, songwriter, playwright, schoolteacher, and journalist. She was born a third generation Texan in 1907, in Coleman, Texas. Both sets of her grandparents were pioneers. Her father was a farmer, and Ms. Kirkland grew up riding a horse to Coleman's one teacher schoolhouse. She was very active in her high school years, participating in the Silver Valley School District debate team, and graduating as Salutatorian in 1924. She then went on to study English and history at North Texas State University, in Denton, Texas, where she received her B.A. and her Teacher's Certificate in 1928.
Kirkland then began her career in writing and teaching with a series of jobs which included teaching high school and writing for newspapers, often at the same time, through the 1930s. From 1928-1929, Kirkland taught high school English, drama, and journalism at Mineral Wells, Texas. At the Coleman Democrat-Voice, Coleman, TX, from 1929-1930, she edited news, features, the editor's front page column, and headlines, many of which dealt with the oil boom and bank robberies. In 1930, Kirkland served as Features writer for the Brady Standard, Brady, TX, researching and photographing major farm and ranch projects in McCulloch County. Also during this time period, from 1930-1932, she taught high school English and journalism in Crane, TX, a ranching center and oil boom town. In 1935, Kirkland served as the Austin correspondent for the Dallas based Texas Weekly. From 1935-1936, she was the State Director of School Publicity (for the Texas Commission for Centennial Celebrations), authoring pamphlets on Texas history and editing the songbook, Songs Texas Sings. From 1937-1939, she was a high school teacher in the State Laboratory School, Iraan, TX, teaching speech arts, journalism, and script writing for radio. Also while at Iraan, she was state correspondent in West Texas for the Fort Worth Star Telegram, writing news stories, often centering on the oil boom.
In 1931, Kirkland married Roy Folk Beal, an interior decorator. A year later, Kirkland's only son was born, James Benjamin Beal. This marriage ended in divorce in 1936. During the summers 1938 of 1939, and during the long term 1939-1940, she was Curriculum Assistant in Department of Educational Administration at the University of Texas at Austin, working with the state on high school curriculum revision. She also attended UT Austin, studying under J. Frank Dobie, and writing a folk-drama series for the Texas State (Radio) Network which was narrated by Dobie. In 1940, she earned a Masters degree from UT Austin in English and Educational Administration.
In the 1940s, Kirkland continued her work as a print journalist, and became very involved in radio journalism. She was the Austin correspondent for the business and financial section of the The Dallas Times Herald, also writing business articles under the name L.E. Hamilton.
From 1940-1947, she was a script writer and acting director for UT Austin's radio department, Radio House, and wrote more than 500 dramatic documentaries for state and national radio networks, many of which were broadcast live from the studios on campus. At the time, Radio House was considered the only complete radio production facility in the southwest. Kirkland traveled to Mexico, among other places, to pursue stories. It was during her tenure at Radio House that Kirkland covered the story of Nazi intrigue surrounding Peck Woodside, an American pilot and businessman in Mexico, a story she would return to again and again over the years.
In 1944, she was the associate editor of Southwest Review, a quarterly publication of University Press in Dallas at Southern Methodist University.
In 1946, she wrote educational film scripts for the Commission on Motion Pictures in New Haven, Conn., including the films "Now is the Seedtime", on Tom Paine, and "Man with a Mission", on Samuel Gompers. In 1948, she married Dr. R. D. (Roy Defoe) Kirkland, an osteopathic surgeon. Also in this year, she mailed her short story "The Realm of Silence" to Pearl Buck, who praised it but described it as ahead of its time and not yet commercially viable. In fact, this story did not come to light until 1984, when it was published as the ending of her novel, The Edge of Disrepute.
As she turned her attention toward creative writing, Kirkland chose Evelyn Oppenheimer, of Dallas, as her literary agent. Oppenheimer helped direct Kirkland to writing historical romance, a genre in which Kirkland would write bestselling novels. Two of these were published in the 1950s, Divine Average(1952) and Love Is A Wild Assault, (1959), the latter being included in A. C. Greene's The 50 Best Books on Texas.
A prolific writer, Kirkland also wrote short stories, songs, poetry, musical dramas, speeches, and television scripts, on a variety of subjects. While her novels tended to be historical romances set in the Republic of Texas era, her other work reflects her broad interests in folk traditions and in the future. She described herself as a "futurist", and often wrote about space travel and parapsychology. She was a member of the Texas State Historical Association, and the national non-denominational Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship of Laymen and Clergymen. In 1982, her short story involving alien kidnapping, The Disappearance of Widow Ellen, was published in a collection of short stories by Texas women writers called Her Work, (Bryan, Texas: Shearer Publishing, 1982).
In 1984, Kirkland's last novel, The Edge of Disrepute, was published. In the next year, her husband, Dr. R.D. Kirkland, passed away, and she moved out of Austin to Wimberley. She published "Leet's Christmas", a Christmas short story including songs and verse. Kirkland remained a very sought after speaker, speaking around the state on the "Texas Voices" program for the Texas Sesquicentennial, as well as for groups such as Daughters of the American Revolution, MENSA, East Texas State University, and Western Writers of America.
In January 1987, her musical drama entitled Precious Memories was performed at the White Elephant in Fort Worth, TX, in collaboration with the Hip Pocket Theater and the Salt Lick Foundation. Kirkland wrote both the drama and lyrics, and acted as narrator. Shortly thereafter, her musical drama, Hear the Flute: An Untold Story of the Civil War in the Western Territories, was performed. Kirkland wrote the script and lyrics, Conrad Fath wrote the music.
On Nov. 12, 1987, Kirkland was inducted into Texas Women's Hall of Fame, one of many honors she received during her lifetime. Kirkland died at her home in Wimberly on Jan. 2, 1992, and was buried in her family cemetery at the David Allen Ranch known as "New Tracks", near the Blanco River, in Kyle, Texas.
Katherine Anne Porter, Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award winning author, was born Callie Russell Porter in Indian Creek, Texas, in 1890. She was one of five children. Her mother, Mary Alice Jones Porter, died during childbirth in 1892, leaving the Porter children to be raised by their father, Harrison Boone Porter. Mr. Porter took the children to Kyle, Texas, in his native Hays County, to live with him and his mother, Catherine Anne Skaggs Porter. The young Ms. Porter attended Kyle public schools. The family was very poor, but her grandmother proved to be a very strong and resourceful woman, making a deep impression on Ms. Porter. In 1901, when Ms. Porter was eleven years old, her grandmother died. Not long afterwards, in 1904, the family moved to San Antonio, where Ms. Porter attended the Thomas School. She studied acting at this time, and performed in several summer stock productions.
In 1906, at sixteen, Porter married John Henry Koontz of Inez, Texas. Mr. Koontz' family was Roman Catholic, and Ms. Porter converted to that faith in 1908. The marriage did not last. Ms. Porter left Mr. Koontz and Texas in 1914, heading north to Chicago to pursue her interests of writing and acting. Apparently it was around this time that she took her grandmother's name, Katherine Anne. The divorce from Mr. Koontz became final in 1915, the same year in which she became very ill with tuberculosis. She returned to Texas, recovered from her illness, and in 1917, worked for the Fort Worth Critic, covering theatrical and social events. Soon afterwards, in 1918, Ms. Porter moved to Denver, Colorado, not to return to Texas for close to fifteen years. In Denver, she reviewed books and theatrical performances for the Rocky Mountain News. During this period she became nearly fatally ill with an influenza which was sweeping the nation. This experience with grave illness served as the background for her short novel, Pale Horse, Pale Rider.
During 1919-1920, she worked in New York City as publicist for a motion picture company, wrote stories for the children's magazine Everyland, and met several Mexican artists who encouraged her to write journalistic works on Mexico. She traveled to Mexico for the first time in 1920, during the time of the Obregon Revolution, and she made many more trips to Mexico during the 1920s. Her first published short story, "Maria Concepcion", appeared in 1922, and was soon followed by other short stories and essays, poetry and book reviews. She was married briefly to Ernest Stock, an English World War I pilot, from 1925-1926. In 1927, she became very interested in the Sacco and Vanzeti case in Mexico, but she would not publish the story of this experience until 1977, in "The Never-Ending Wrong".
"Flowering Judas", one of her most well known short stories, was published in 1930. She was living in Mexico at this time, and met Eugene Pressly, whom she married in Paris in 1933. Around this time, she returned to Texas for a family visit. She also traveled to Paris and Germany during the turbulent 1930s. In 1936, she moved back to America and finished "Noon Wine" and "Old Mortality", and began work on "Pale Horse, Pale Rider". The next year, she and Mr. Pressly separated. Shortly thereafter, Ms. Porter went to New Orleans and became involved with Albert Erskine of The Southern Review. She and Mr. Erskine were married in April, 1938.
In 1939, J. Frank Dobie's Apache Gold and Yaqui Silver and Porter's Pale Horse, Pale Rider were both nominated for fiction awards by the Texas Institute of Letters. Dobie won the prize, leaving Ms. Porter feeling insulted and bitter. (Porter was later awarded the Texas Institute of Letters fiction prize for her 1962 novel, Ship of Fools.) In 1940, Porter and Erskine separated, and Ms. Porter moved to Saratoga Springs, New York, to continue her writing, beginning what would become Ship of Fools. In 1945, she began taking work as a Hollywood scriptwriter, and in 1948 began teaching at various universities including Stanford, the University of Michigan, Washington and Lee, and the University of Liege.
In 1958, rumors circulated to the effect that Harry Ransom, of the University of Texas at Austin's Humanities Research Center, was planning to name a building or at least a room for her at the University. Ms. Porter was very enthusiastic about these reported plans, and accepted an invitation to visit the University. She even considered moving to the area, but the agreement with UT fell apart. Ms. Porter was once again disappointed in Texas.
In 1959, Ms. Porter, supported by Ford Foundation grant, moved to the Washington, D.C. area, where she continued to work on Ship of Fools, which was published in 1962.
In 1965, she published The Collected Stories of Katherine Anne Porter, which won a Pulitzer Prize Award. She also received honorary doctorates from many universities, and was very much in demand for lectures and teaching positions. In 1966, she received an honorary degree from the University of Maryland at College Park, and in that same year she made the decision to donate her personal papers and library to UMCP. The university named a room for Ms. Porter, which was opened on May 15, 1968.
In the Spring of 1976, Ms. Porter was again given an opportunity to return to Texas. Dr. Roger Brooks, President of Howard Payne University, in Brownwood (close to Ms. Porter's birthplace), organized a literary conference of Porter scholars. The university also presented Ms. Porter with an honorary degree. Dr. Brooks and Ms. Porter became close friends in the last years of her life, and during this visit, Dr. Brooks took Ms. Porter to visit her mother's and brother's grave in her hometown cemetery. It was at this time that Ms. Porter decided to be buried next to her mother in her home town. Later that year, she suffered a series of strokes. Her last book, "The Never Ending Wrong", an account of the Sacco and Vanzetti case in Mexico, was published in 1977.
Ms. Porter died on September 18, 1980, and she was buried alongside her mother's grave, in the Indian Creek Cemetery, near Brownwood, Texas.
Since Porter's death, her reputation as a "Texas" writer has grown even though she herself had fled the state and felt unappreciated by it. Critic A.C. Greene, writing in The Fifty Best Books on Texas, calls Pale Horse, Pale Rider "the best Texas fiction ever written." Greene also concludes that he "always thought it strange [that] she was so bitter in her disavowal of things Texan but did so many of her best stories with a Texas background." (Greene, A. C. The Fifty Best Books on Texas. Dallas: Pressworks, 1982. p.33
Katherine Anne Porter's return to Texas has now come full circle. A historical marker has been erected in Kyle, Texas, celebrating her career. Her childhood home there has recently been purchased by a preservation group, and the house will be restored for use as a museum and a residence for visiting writers at Texas State University. The 1998 Texas Writers Month poster, hung widely across the state's libraries and bookstores, featured Ms. Porter.
Katherine Anne Porter, Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award winning author, was born Callie Russell Porter in Indian Creek, Texas, in 1890. She was one of five children. Her mother, Mary Alice Jones Porter, died during childbirth in 1892, leaving the Porter children to be raised by their father, Harrison Boone Porter. Mr. Porter took the children to Kyle, Texas, in his native Hays County, to live with him and his mother, Catherine Anne Skaggs Porter. The young Ms. Porter attended Kyle public schools. The family was very poor, but her grandmother proved to be a very strong and resourceful woman, making a deep impression on Ms. Porter. In 1901, when Ms. Porter was eleven years old, her grandmother died. Not long afterwards, in 1904, the family moved to San Antonio, where Ms. Porter attended the Thomas School. She studied acting at this time, and performed in several summer stock productions.
In 1906, at sixteen, Porter married John Henry Koontz of Inez, Texas. Mr. Koontz' family was Roman Catholic, and Ms. Porter converted to that faith in 1908. The marriage did not last. Ms. Porter left Mr. Koontz and Texas in 1914, heading north to Chicago to pursue her interests of writing and acting. Apparently it was around this time that she took her grandmother's name, Katherine Anne. The divorce from Mr. Koontz became final in 1915, the same year in which she became very ill with tuberculosis. She returned to Texas, recovered from her illness, and in 1917, worked for the Fort Worth Critic, covering theatrical and social events. Soon afterwards, in 1918, Ms. Porter moved to Denver, Colorado, not to return to Texas for close to fifteen years. In Denver, she reviewed books and theatrical performances for the Rocky Mountain News. During this period she became nearly fatally ill with an influenza which was sweeping the nation. This experience with grave illness served as the background for her short novel, Pale Horse, Pale Rider.
During 1919-1920, she worked in New York City as publicist for a motion picture company, wrote stories for the children's magazine Everyland, and met several Mexican artists who encouraged her to write journalistic works on Mexico. She traveled to Mexico for the first time in 1920, during the time of the Obregon Revolution, and she made many more trips to Mexico during the 1920s. Her first published short story, "Maria Concepcion", appeared in 1922, and was soon followed by other short stories and essays, poetry and book reviews. She was married briefly to Ernest Stock, an English World War I pilot, from 1925-1926. In 1927, she became very interested in the Sacco and Vanzeti case in Mexico, but she would not publish the story of this experience until 1977, in "The Never-Ending Wrong".
"Flowering Judas", one of her most well known short stories, was published in 1930. She was living in Mexico at this time, and met Eugene Pressly, whom she married in Paris in 1933. Around this time, she returned to Texas for a family visit. She also traveled to Paris and Germany during the turbulent 1930s. In 1936, she moved back to America and finished "Noon Wine" and "Old Mortality", and began work on "Pale Horse, Pale Rider". The next year, she and Mr. Pressly separated. Shortly thereafter, Ms. Porter went to New Orleans and became involved with Albert Erskine of The Southern Review. She and Mr. Erskine were married in April, 1938.
During this time began Paul Porter's relationship with his aunt. In 1937, when Mr. Porter was 15 years of age, Ms. Porter visited his family in Houston. One year after this first acquaintance, Paul Porter wrote to his aunt, initiating a vital correspondence which continued until Ms. Porter suffered several strokes in 1976. (For more information regarding the beginnings of the relationship between Ms. Porter and her nephew, see Paul Porter's essay in "Katherine Anne Porter and Texas: An Uneasy Relationship," Texas A&M Univ. Press, 1990.) Throughout their nearly forty years of visits and warm correspondence, Ms. Porter gave Paul Porter books and literary magazines, offering him an education along with her very long letters.
While Ms. Porter's friendship with her nephew grew over the years, her writing career also continued to flourish. In 1939, J. Frank Dobie's Apache Gold and Yaqui Silver and Porter's Pale Horse, Pale Rider were both nominated for fiction awards by the Texas Institute of Letters. Dobie won the prize, leaving Ms. Porter feeling insulted and bitter. (Porter was later awarded the Texas Institute of Letters fiction prize for her 1962 novel, Ship of Fools.) In 1940, Porter and Erskine separated, and Ms. Porter moved to Saratoga Springs, New York, to continue her writing, beginning what would become Ship of Fools. In 1945, she began taking work as a Hollywood scriptwriter, and in 1948 began teaching at various universities including Stanford, the University of Michigan, Washington and Lee, and the University of Liege.
In 1958, rumors circulated to the effect that Harry Ransom, of the University of Texas at Austin's Humanities Research Center, was planning to name a building or at least a room for her at the University. Ms. Porter was very enthusiastic about these reported plans, and accepted an invitation to visit the University. She even considered moving to the area, but the agreement with UT fell apart. Ms. Porter was once again disappointed in Texas.
In 1959, Ms. Porter, supported by Ford Foundation grant, moved to the Washington, D.C. area, where she continued to work on Ship of Fools, which was published in 1962. In 1965, she published The Collected Stories of Katherine Anne Porter, which won a Pulitzer Prize Award. She also received honorary doctorates from many universities, and was very much in demand for lectures and teaching positions. In 1966, she received an honorary degree from the University of Maryland at College Park, and in that same year she made the decision to donate her personal papers and library to UMCP. Paul Porter has also donated significantly to the Katherine Anne Porter papers at UMCP. The university named a room for Ms. Porter, which was opened on May 15, 1968.
In 1976, Ms. Porter suffered a series of strokes. Her last book, "The Never Ending Wrong", an account of the Sacco and Vanzetti case in Mexico, was published in 1977. Ms. Porter died on September 18, 1980. Paul Porter carried her ashes to Indian Creek, which were buried alongside her mother's grave, in the Indian Creek Cemetery, near Brownwood, Texas.
Since Porter's death, her reputation as a "Texas" writer has grown even though she herself had fled the state and felt unappreciated by it. Critic A.C. Greene,
writing in The Fifty Best Books on Texas, calls Pale Horse, Pale Rider "the best Texas fiction ever written." Greene also concludes that he "always thought it strange [that] she was so bitter in her disavowal of things Texan but did so many of her best stories with a Texas background." (Greene, A. C. The Fifty Best Books on Texas. Dallas: Pressworks, 1982. p.33)
Katherine Anne Porter's return to Texas has now come full circle. A historical marker has been erected in Kyle, Texas, celebrating her career. Her childhood home there has recently been purchased by a preservation group, and the house will be restored for use as a museum and a residence for visiting writers at Southwest Texas State University. The 1998 Texas Writers Month poster, hung widely across the state's libraries and bookstores, featured Ms. Porter.
Jovita González was born near the Texas-Mexico border in Roma, Texas, on January 18, 1904. Her father was a teacher and her mother a housewife. Her family moved to San Antonio so that the children could be educated in English. After high school, González earned a teaching certificate and taught in Rio Grande City while earning money for college. She attended The University of Texas at Austin for a year, but due to a lack of funds returned to San Antonio to attend Our Lady of the Lake College where she was able to obtain a scholarship. In the summers she continued to study Spanish at The University of Texas, and it was in the summer of 1925 that she met J. Frank Dobie. Dobie shared González's interest in the folklore of the Texas-Mexican border and encouraged her to write down the stories. She did so, and some were published in the Folklore Publications and the Southwest Review.
Dobie was not only supportive of González's writing, but he provided references for her scholarships, underwrote bank loans for her, and he and his wife invited her to dinners in their home. González was also very involved with the Texas Folklore Society which Dobie helped resurrect in 1922. She gave several lectures at the annual meetings and published articles in some of the journals. With Dobie's endorsement, González was elected to served as the Texas Folklore Society's vice president in 1928, and as president for two terms from 1930 to 1932. After receiving her B.A. from Our Lady of the Lake in 1927, she taught for two years at Saint Mary's Hall, an Episcopal school for girls, until she was awarded the Lapham Scholarship to conduct research along the border and to work on an M.A. at The University of Texas. Her M.A. research resulted in a Rockefeller grant award in 1934. It was during this time that she may have started work on her novel Caballero which was published posthumously in 1996.
While at UT Austin, González met her future husband, Edmundo E. Mireles.
E. E. Mireles was born in La Ciudad de Hidalgo del Parral, Mexico on December 28, 1905. He was raised by his grandmother in Sacramento, Coahuila, Mexico and came to the United States at the age of seven to live with his father in San Antonio. He later returned to Mexico with his father to fight in the Mexican Revolution, and was wounded. Back in Texas he attended the San Antonio Junior College, and The University of Texas at Austin where he received a B.A., with a Greek major and Latin minor. He obtained his masters in Spanish in 1953 from the Instituto Tecnologico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey.
E. E. Mireles and Jovita González were married in 1935 in San Antonio, and then moved to Del Rio where he was principal of San Felipe High School and she taught English. In 1939, they relocated to Corpus Christi where Mr. Mireles organized the Spanish program in the elementary grades of the public schools. Working together, Mr. and Ms. Mireles wrote two sets of books, Mi libro español and El español elemental, for the teaching of Spanish in the grade schools. In 1943, Mr. Mireles helped to create the Pan American Council dedicated to the study of Spanish, Latin America and its people. The Council supported the public schools in the organization and functioning of their own Pan American Clubs. Mr. Mireles also served as president of the LULAC Council No. 1. Ms. González Mireles continued until her retirement to teach Spanish and Texas History at W.B. Ray High School in Corpus Christi. During this time she also directed pastorelas, pageants and Christmastime posadas with Mexican children in the community. E. E. Mireles is considered by many to be the father of bilingual education, because of his role as an advocate for teaching Spanish in the public schools of Corpus Christi. Both Mr. and Ms. Mireles continued as educators and advocates of Spanish language teaching in public schools until they retired. Jovita González Mireles died in 1983, and E. E. Mireles died in 1987.
Few scholars took notice of Jovita González Mireles' work until Teresa Palomo Acosta and Cynthia Orozco helped to renew interest in her at the 1990 "Mexican Americans in Texas History" conference in San Antonio. This renewed interest lead to the posthumous publication of her two novels Caballero in 1996 and Dew on the Thorn in 1997. For further information on Jovita González Mireles and Edmundo E. Mireles see Dancing with the Devil: Society and Cultural Poetics by José E. Limón, Dew on the Thorn by Jovita González, and Gente Decente by Leticia Garza-Falcón.
Poet, novelist, playwright, and short story writer Russell G. Vliet was born in Chicago, on November 4, 1929. His father was a Naval medical officer, and the family lived in many parts of the U.S., largely in the south, and in American Samoa. R.G. Vliet attended Central High School (Class of 1948) in Texas City, Texas, just south of Houston, and attended Southwest Texas State University beginning in the Fall of 1948, where he wrote and acted in his own plays. While at the university, he met Vida Ann Rutherford, of New Braunfels, a fellow Speech and Drama major. The couple married on March 1, 1951, and had a daughter, Brooke, in 1957. The Vliets received their B.S. degrees in Education in 1952, and R.G. Vliet went on to complete his Master's at SWT with the thesis, "Experiment in lyric and dramatic verse", in 1953. Vliet then taught English for one year at Brown's School in Austin, and one year at Rock Springs High School in the Texas Hill Country. Even though many of Vliet's novels, plays, and poems would be set in Texas and would win awards from Texan literary institutions, Vliet would not live in Texas again, except for a six-month period near the end of his life, in 1983.
In 1955, Vliet went from teaching English to attending Yale University School of Drama, where he studied playwrighting with Robert Penn Warren and others for one and a half years. He left Yale to start his own writing career, which began with a string of award winning plays. In 1957, his play, "The Arid Spell", won the Wisconsin Award. In 1959, his play, "The Regions of Noon", was named Southeastern Theatre Conference New Play of the Year. In 1960, while working as a Ford Foundation Fellow, his play, "Rockspring", won the University of Nebraska Award. This play would later be worked into Vliet's first novel, of the same name. During this time, Vliet and his family lived in Pennsylvania, Connecticut, and Morelos, Mexico, traveling and relocating as his wife's college English teaching career, the family's financial mainstay, required.
In 1966, at the age of 37, Vliet published his first book of poetry, Events and Celebrations. It contained the poem "Clem Maverick: The Life and Death of a Country Music Singer", which would later be individually published by Shearer Publishing, accompanied by woodcut illustrations by Barbara Whitehead. His second book of poetry, The Man with the Black Mouth, was published in 1970. Each of these books of poetry won the Voertman Poetry Award from the Texas Institute of Letters.
From 1971 to 1982, Vliet wrote, and worked a small farm in Stamford, Vermont. He published his first novel, Rockspring, in 1974, at age 44, which sold only a few thousand copies. Despite the novel's relatively low sales, Rockspring earned Vliet $25,000 from the sale of movie rights to the work, the most money he would receive for any of his literary efforts. His 1977 novel, Solitudes, (later reprinted under the name Soledad ) won the Texas Institute of Letters Jesse Jones Award. At a time when large publishing houses rarely took on poetry, Random House published his next book of poetry, Water & Stone (1980). In 1983, he won a literary fellowship which allowed him to spend six months writing at the late J. Frank Dobie's ranch, Paisano. This brief period was essentially the only time Vliet spent in Texas after his schooldays and early teaching days. While there, he began writing what would be his last novel, Scorpio Rising.
Vliet was diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma in 1972, and after a brief illness, the disease went into remission. In 1982, Vliet learned that the lymphoma had come out of remission, and had taken a strong grip on his health. The following year, he was recognized with a Distinguished Alumni Award from his alma mater, Southwest Texas State University. Despite serious illness from chemotherapy as well as from the symptoms of the disease itself, Vliet continued work on his last novel, Scorpio Rising, completing it just days before his death. This novel, set in both Massachusetts and Texas, is widely considered to be his best. Russell Gordon Vliet died of lymphoma in North Adams, Massachusetts, in May, 1984.
Since his death, Vliet's novel Solitudes was reprinted by Texas Christian University Press as Soledad, (1986), and cited in James Ward Lee's Classics of Texas Fiction, in 1987. Rockspring was reprinted by Southern Methodist University (1992), the play "Regions of Noon" was published in William Martin's Texas Plays, (Southern Methodist University Press,1990), and Vliet's poetry will be featured in a forthcoming anthology edited by Dave Oliphant. Malcolm Cowley, who served as editor for Vliet and many other award-winning authors at Random House, describes Vliet's prose as "a joy and a continual surprise. There is nobody else with talent for evoking Texas as it was in the 1880s, nobody else who gives us the same sharp feeling for landscape, animals, birds, changing skies, and above all for people, as they lived out their solitary, violent lives full of kindness, resentments, and hardships accepted without complaint. Vliet's writing is close to becoming a national treasure."
Noted theater director and educator Paul Baker was born in 1911 in the West Texas town of Hereford to Retta Chapman Baker and William Morgan Baker. He was the son and grandson of Presbyterian ministers, and the youngest of five children. When Baker was eight years old, his father moved the family to Waxahachie, Texas where Baker and his older siblings would eventually attend Trinity University, then located in Waxahachie.
In 1932, Paul Baker earned a bachelor's degree in drama at Trinity University. Baker then spent a year at Yale University working toward a master's in drama, but for financial reasons he was unable to continue his studies. He spent the summer of 1934 in England, and while there, he received the offer of a teaching position at Baylor University in Waco, Texas. He began teaching there in 1934. At Baylor, Baker met Sallie Kathryn Cardwell (Kitty), a college math professor and artist. Kitty Cardwell had received her undergraduate degree at Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Virginia. She always had an interest in art, but chose math as her major, and went on to receive her Masters of Science in Math from the University of Chicago, where she spent a year working toward her doctorate before coming to Baylor. On December 21, 1936 – three months after they met – Paul and Kitty were married.
The Bakers had three daughters, Robyn Cardwell Baker in 1938, Retta Chapman Baker in 1942, and Sallie Kathryn Baker in 1947. Kitty Baker began teaching a children's art and drama class for Robyn and her friends in 1941, basing her teachings on the same ideas that Paul Baker was using in his drama classes at Baylor. This class would eventually grow into the Baylor Children's and Teenage Theater.
In 1939, with the help of a Rockefeller Foundation Scholarship, Baker returned to Yale and completed his master's degree in drama. In 1941, Baker received a Rockefeller Grant to write about his travels during the summer of 1936 to England, Germany, Russia, and Japan where he studied theater design and production. Also in 1941, Baker returned to Baylor and helped design a new theater called Studio One. In Studio One, the audience was seated in swivel chairs and surrounded by six stages. Five of the stages formed a semi-circle around the audience and the sixth was located in the rear. This marked the beginning of Baker's many innovative contributions to theater and theater education.
Paul Baker was one of the first theatrical specialists to join the United States Army during WWII, serving as a Special Services Entertainment Officer in Iceland and Paris, France. He directed theatrical performances at the Iceland base. Baker had no trouble finding a variety of men who were talented actors, but he needed actresses. He put in a request for four actresses to perform at his theater. His request led to the formation of the Civilian Actress Technician Corps (CATS), which continued to provide actresses for performances throughout Special Services. In 1945, Baker was awarded the Legion of Merit for the re-organization of the Entertainment Branch of the European Theater of Operation.
Back in the United States, Baker continued to receive recognition for his involvement in education and drama. Baker was the recipient of two more Rockefeller grants in 1946 and 1959. He received the first of these to make a study of leisure time problems as related to community. In 1958, Baker received an Honorary Doctorate of Fine Arts from Trinity University. Baker also served as President of the Southwest Theater Association in 1956 and as President of the National Theatre Conference from 1958 to 1961.
In 1952, Baker took a group of Baylor acting students and staff to present Green Grow the Lilacs by Lynn Riggs at the Theater Babylone in Paris. While visiting the Paris Museum of Modern Art, Baker became interested in the works of the Cubists. During this time, Baker was beginning to feel that the progress of theater was lagging behind the other arts. Inspired by the idea of translating modern art techniques into drama, Baker went back to Baylor to produce an updated version of Othello in which these new ideas were expressed. He translated the Cubist technique of presenting subjects from more than one point of view into drama by having three actors play the different parts of one character's personality. Henry Hewes, Drama Critic for the Saturday Review, said that Baker had "accomplished what Orson Wells' motion picture tried and failed to do – applied the visual arts to a great play without allowing them to inundate it" (Cory, 23). Charles Laughton called Baker's production of Othello "the most exciting piece of theater in America," and called Baker "a man absolutely without fear" (Cory, 23). In 1956, Baker used this method again in Hamlet with actor Burgess Meredith playing the main speaking role of Hamlet and three other actors representing the war-like, jovial and introspective sides of the character.
In 1959, while still teaching at Baylor, Baker helped found the Dallas Theater Center, which acted as the graduate school for the Baylor Drama Department. Frank Lloyd Wright designed the Dallas Theater Center, his last building and the only public theater ever built from his design. Baker also contributed to the design of the theater, working closely with Wright and sometimes disagreeing with him over such issues as lighting installation and backstage ramps. Playwright Gene McKinney described his own response to the designs for the Dallas Theater Center the first time he saw them, by saying "I realized this was going to be a different kind of theater. The whole approach to the total space, with its lack of right angles, gave freshness to the idea of theater." (Cory, 88) Baker would stay with the Dallas Theater Center for twenty-three years.
Baker's innovations in theater continued to receive praise from across the nation, and in 1961, he was given the first Rogers and Hammerstein Award for outstanding contribution to theater in the Southwest. However, Baker was not without critics. In 1962, he obtained the amateur rights from Eugene O'Neill's widow to produce O'Neill's play Long Day's Journey into Night at Baylor. The contract with Mrs. O'Neill was to do the play intact with no editing of the script. A local Sunday school teacher, who brought her class to see the play, was offended by some of the language. She began a campaign against the production, and the Baylor President ordered Baker to close the play. In response, Baker and his entire department, including assistant professor Robert Flynn and graduate student Preston Jones, moved to Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas. Baker split his time between Trinity and the Dallas Theater Center, which then began to serve as the graduate school for the Trinity Drama Department.
Preston Jones not only followed Baker to Trinity, but also worked with him at the Dallas Theater Center. While there, Jones took to heart Baker's philosophy of non-specialization, and worked in a variety of positions, including actor, director, stage manager, and ticket taker. Jones credited these experiences with making him a successful playwright. As an actor Jones appeared in several plays at the Dallas Theater Center, including Journey to Jefferson by Robert Flynn, a stage adaptation of William Faulkner's novel As I Lay Dying. Under Baker's direction, this Dallas Theater Center production of Journey to Jefferson, won the jury prize at the Theater of Nations in Paris in 1964.
In 1972, Baker appointed Preston Jones managing director of Down Center Stage, a smaller workshop theater within the Dallas Theater Center. Jones' desire to present new works, combined with a lack of good material available, led him to begin writing his own plays, the first of which was The Knights of the White Magnolia. In 1973, it was produced at the Dallas Theater Center under Baker's guidance, and inaugurated Jones' classic Texas Trilogy. Jones and Baker would continue to have a close working relationship at the Dallas Theater Center until Jones' death in 1979.
In 1972, Baker wrote the book Integration of Abilities, in which he illustrated the teaching techniques he had used in a class of the same name at Baylor and Trinity. In class, Baker taught his students to use all five senses to experience and express their surroundings. Believing that a theater artist should be introduced to all facets of the arts, Baker gave his students assignments in painting, writing, and music composition. During the process of producing a play, he strove to involve the members of the production -- including playwrights -- in all aspects of theater work, such as taking tickets and helping in areas outside their usual sphere, in order to round out their experience of the theater. Baker explained that with this teaching philosophy he was trying to help students "discover their creative abilities," and at the same time "help the theater catch up with the progress made in the other arts" (Cory, 20).
Baker retired from his position as Professor of Drama and Chairman of the Drama Department at Trinity University in 1976, but continued his work as Director at the Dallas Theater Center. In 1978, he received both a Distinguished Alumnus Award from Trinity University and an Honorary Doctorate of Humanities from the Texas Christian University.
By 1982, Baker and the Board of Directors at the Dallas Theater Center had begun to hold different views about the direction the Center should take. Baker wanted it to remain an educational theater, maintaining a resident company of actors, writers and directors as it had since its inception. The Board was interested in making the Center a more commercially dynamic venue, and envisioned touring productions featuring nationally-known actors who could attract audiences simply by the presence of their names on the marquee. In March 1982, Baker, after twenty-three years of service as Artistic Director, turned in his resignation. After Baker's resignation, the Center slowly moved away from its former experimental educational approach, and its role as a graduate school came to an end. However, Baker's methods in drama continued in the Dallas Children's Theater, founded by his daughter Robyn Baker Flatt, and at Dallas' Booker T. Washington School for the Performing Arts, founded by Paul Baker himself in 1976, at the request of the Dallas Independent School District.
After leaving the Dallas Theater Center, Baker continued to receive awards for his work in theater, and he remained busy directing plays and writing books and articles. In 1983, Baker received the Tomas De Gretani Award for outstanding service to American Theater. He directed a variety of plays, including Preston Jones' Last Meeting of the Knights of the White Magnolia in 1984 at the New Mexico Repertory Theater in Santa Fe. Baker also directed a professional production of Preston Jones' The Oldest Living Graduate for Paramount Theater of Austin in 1986, and his own adaptation, Hamlet ESP, for the Hyde Park Theater in Austin in 1987. In August of 1990, Baker's work in drama and education was celebrated by ex-students from Baylor University (1934-63), Trinity University (1963-1975), and the Dallas Theater Center (1959-83), with "The Paul Baker Festival – Second Harvest," which ran for three days in Waco.
In 1994, Baker was the recipient of the Texas Commission on the Arts Special Merit Award, and in that same year he wrote Making Sense with Five Senses, a textbook featuring his Integration of Abilities Technique. Paul and Kitty Baker currently live on a 132-acre ranch near Waelder, Texas, where they are both active in encouraging the application of their Integration of Abilities Technique at the Waelder elementary school.
Nancie Austin was a friend of Texas novelist Elithe Hamilton Kirkland from Wimberley, Texas.
Cormac McCarthy, author of award-winning and best-selling novels including All the Pretty Horses, The Crossing, and Cities of the Plain, was born Charles McCarthy, Jr., on July 20, 1933, in Providence, Rhode Island. The McCarthy family moved to Knoxville, Tennessee in 1937. McCarthy later attended the University of Tennessee, completing one year. He then served four years in the U.S. Air Force, and then returned to the University of Tennessee for an additional 3 years, leaving without a degree in 1960 to pursue his writing career.
Early on, McCarthy won fellowships and awards, though not a wide readership. In 1960, he won an Ingram-Merrill Foundation grant for creative writing, and in that same year, published his first novel, The Orchard Keeper, for which he won the William Faulkner Award in 1965. Also in 1965, he won an American Academy of Arts and Letters travelling fellowship to Europe. The next year, he won a Rockefeller Foundation grant. In 1968, his second novel, Outer Dark, was published, followed by Child of God, in 1974. He won a Guggenheim fellowship in 1976. His fourth novel, Suttree, was published in 1979. Two years later, he won a MacArthur Foundation Grant, also known as a "genius award," upon which he moved out of the motel where he was living in Knoxville, and purchased a home in El Paso, Texas.
As McCarthy tends to set his novels only in places of which he has first hand knowledge, his earlier novels were set in Tennessee, and novels written after his 1981 move to El Paso have been set in the Southwest and Mexico. In 1985, he published Blood Meridian, considered by many to be one of his finest works. In 1992, All the Pretty Horses, the first of the Border Trilogy, was published, winning the National Book Award for fiction and the National Book Critics Circle Award for fiction. In 1994, The Crossing became the second of the trilogy, followed in 1998 by Cities of the Plain. All three of the Border Trilogy novels have been very successful both critically and commercially. Also in the 1990s, McCarthy published a play, The Stonemason, a work he had begun writing in the 1970s.
McCarthy has been compared to writers such as William Faulkner, Ernest Hemingway, and Herman Melville, sharing with such writers a "rustic and sometimes dark humor, intense characters, and violent plots," (Dianne Cox, Dictionary of Literary Biography). New York Times reviewer, Sara Mosle, describes his works as having always been "drenched in blood, much of it spilled in the South and the Southwest in the latter half of the 19th century," and McCarthy's vision as one of "bleak timelessness," (May 17, 1999). In one of a very few interviews, McCarthy said he had "always been interested in the Southwest. There isn't a place in the world they don't know about cowboys and Indians and the myth of the West," continuing on to say that there "is no such thing as life without bloodshed…The notion that the species can be improved in some way, that everyone could live in harmony, is really a dangerous idea. Those who are afflicted with this notion are the first ones to give up their souls, their freedom. Your desire that it be that way will enslave you and make your life vacuous," (New York Times Magazine, April 19, 1992).
John Emil Sepich is a writer and scholar of the novelist Cormac McCarthy.
The Southern Quarterly, a journal of the arts in the South, is published by the University of Southern Mississippi, in Hattiesburg, Mississippi.
Noted Texas attorney James Edwin Smith, who won a U.S. Supreme Court case striking down an election primary system that excluded black voters, was born in Sonora, Texas on October 18, 1911. He ran for Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas in 1958, as a member of the Democratic Party. Publicity photographs for this campaign were taken by Russell Lee. Smith lived and worked in Houston for much of his life. He died on February 1, 2001.
Essayist and journalist Ian Frazier was born in 1951, in Cleveland, Ohio, and graduated in 1973 with a B.A. from Harvard University. Frazier has served as a staff writer for New Yorker magazine, and has published several books of humorous essays. In 1983, Frazier wrote a biographical essay on SWT alumna Ponce Cruse Evans, author of the syndicated newspaper column, "Hints from Heloise". The essay, "Nobody Better, and Better than Nobody", appeared in New Yorker, and later in a book by the same name of Frazier's essays.
Heloise Cruse Ponce was born April 15, 1952, in Waco, Texas, and graduated from Texas State with a B.S. in Mathematics. Her mother, Heloise Cruse, wrote a newspaper column and published several books featuring household hints in the 1960s and 1970s. Heloise Cruse Ponce has followed in her mother's footsteps, writing the syndicated column "Hints from Heloise", a daily and Sunday feature, appearing in more than 500 newspapers in 20 countries, and had published numerous books filled with household hints. Ponce resides in San Antonio, Texas.
Susan Hanson was a staff writer for the San Marcos Daily Record, a newspaper in San Marcos, Texas from 1982-1999. Her column covers arts and culture, including interviews with regional novelists, poets, screenwriters, as well as politics and environmental history. Hanson currently teaches in the English Department at Texas State University, and writes for a San Marcos weekly newspaper, The Chautauquan.
Journalist and folk arts researcher Kay Council earned her Masters in American Civilization/Folklore from the University of Texas at Austin in 1978. She currently resides in Corpus Christi, Texas.
Dan Flores was born in 1948 in Vivian, Louisiana, and earned his PhD in History from Texas A & M University in 1978. He is a scholar of Environmental History of the American West. Flores taught in the History Department at Texas Tech University from 1978-1992, and since 1992 at the University of Montana at Missoula.
The Texas Western Swing Hall of Fame was founded in Austin by Al Dressen in 1988. Inductions have taken place at the annual Texas Western Swing Hall of Fame show, held in Austin during the years 1988-1993, and in San Marcos from 1994 to the present, on the third weekend in May. The Hall of Fame's first inductee was Bob Wills, leader of the legendary swing band, Bob Wills & his Texas Playboys. Other members include such artists as Hank Thompson, Laura Lee McBride, The Sons of the Pioneers, Floyd Tilman, Eldon Shamblin, Hoyle Nix, and Asleep at the Wheel. The Hall of Fame also publishes a newsletter, Jamboree, which keeps its membership informed of special events and features music reviews.
Robert Samuel Gwynn was born May 13, 1948, in Leaksville, North Carolina, and earned his Masters' in Fine Arts from the University of Arkansas in 1973. He taught English at Southwest Texas State University from 1973-1976, and since then has taught at Lamar University, in Beaumont, Texas. He has published several books of poetry and contributed to many poetry anthologies and dictionaries of literary biography.
Singer-songwriter Jerry Jeff Walker was born Ronald Clyde Crosby on March 16, 1942, in Oneonta, New York. In the early 1960s, he hitchhiked cross-country, singing in bars and on street corners, adopting the name Jerry Jeff Walker in 1966. While performing in Texas, Walker met songwriter Bob Bruno, with whom he formed a band called the Lost Sea Dreamers (and later Circus Maximus), and relocated to New York City.
In 1968, Walker wrote the song he would become famous for, "Mr. Bojangles", which enabled him to embark on a solo career, this time based in Austin. Although Walker's recording of the song barely broke the charts, artists such as Tom T. Hall, Sammy Davis, Jr., Harry Belafonte, George Burns, and the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band covered it, making Walker and his music known to a national audience.
Walker became a central figure in the burgeoning alternative country scene in Austin beginning in the early 1970s. In 1973, he recorded the album "Viva Terlingua" in Luckenbach, Texas, a ghost town which was memorialized by Waylon Jennings' 1977 hit song of the same name. Walker began to celebrate his birthday in Luckenbach, an event which has grown to legendary proportions. From the early 1970s to 1978, he played with the Lost Gonzo Band, which was known for its skilled musicians, including singer-songwriter Gary P. Nunn.
In 1986, Walker formed his own production company, Tried and True Music, and began to take more time with each of his recording projects. In 1991, he began hosting the television show "The Texas Connection", on the Nashville Network (TNN). In that same year, he played at the inauguration of Texas Governor, Ann Richards, and two years later at the inauguration of President Bill Clinton. Walker continues to play in packed halls to audiences ranging in age from teenagers to retirees.
Professor and university administrator Ricardo Romo was born in San Antonio in 1944, and attended Fox Tech High School. He then attended the University of Texas at Austin on a track scholarship, and went to Los Angeles to earn a masters degree from Loyola Marymount University and a doctorate in U.S. History from the University of California at Los Angeles. He began his career as a social studies coordinator in the Los Angeles public schools in 1967, and then went on to teach Chicano Studies as an Assistant Professor at California State University at Northridge (1970-73) and at the University of California at San Diego (1973-1980).
Romo returned to Central Texas in 1980, serving on the UT Austin History faculty, simultaneously directing the Trinity University Tomás Rivera Center (1987-1993), and moving into the position of Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education (1993-1999). Also during this time, Romo wrote East Los Angeles: History of a Barrio, which deals with the assimilation of the Latino community into American society during World War II. In 1992, Romo was named Educator of the Year by the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC). In 1999, Ricardo Romo replaced outgoing UTSA President Sam Kirkpatrick, becoming the leader of the only public four-year higher education institution in his hometown.
Romo met his wife, Harriet, a native of Pasadena, while an undergraduate student at UT Austin. The couple was married in 1967, one year after she earned a M.S. in Education from UT Austin. In 1971, she earned an M.A. in Education from UCLA, followed by an M.A. in Sociology from UC San Diego, and in 1985, a Doctorate of Philosophy in Sociology, also at UC San Diego. Since then Dr. Romo has studied at Stanford University and has been involved in various research projects related to ethnicity, immigration, and education.
In 1996, she collaborated with photographer Alan Pogue, documenting the lives of Head Start program families in an exhibit entitled "Photographs and Field Notes: An Ethnographic View of Head Start Families". This exhibit was shown at Texas State University in 1996. From 1990 to 1996, she taught in the Department of Sociology. Dr. Harriett Romo went on to teach Latino studies at UT Austin, where she co-authored Latino High School Graduation: Defying the Odds, in 1996. As a part of the Romos' ongoing and wide-ranging interest in Latino culture and studies, they also collect Latin American art and rare books concerning Southwestern borderlands.
Joe Nick Patoski was born in 1951 in Allentown, Pennsylvania. He moved with his family to West Fort Worth in 1953, at the age of two. He attended the University of Texas at El Paso, the University of Minnesota, and the University of Texas at Austin, where he began his writing career in 1972 as a columnist with the Daily Texan, the newspaper of the University of Texas at Austin. That same year he became a consultant in the music business and had soon earned a reputation as one of the most respected critics of pop culture in the Southwest. Patoski worked as a stringer for Rolling Stone from 1974 to 1980, and as a contributing editor for Texas Monthly from 1975 to 1980. During the early 1980s, he was the manager and executive producer for several top Texas rock and roll bands, and toured the United States, Europe and South America. In 1985, Texas Monthly named Patoski an associate editor. He is currently senior editor for Texas Monthly. Patoski has written books and articles on various topics covering the entire range of Texas culture. His work has also appeared in Mother Jones, Village Voice, Waterways, and Condé Nast Traveler, as well as many other publications.
Novelist, short-story writer, and journalist Pat Ellis Taylor was born June 23, 1941 in Bryan, Texas. She lived in Weisbaden, Germany during her teenage years in the mid to late 1950s. She received her B.A. in 1969 and her M.A. in 1976, both from the University of Texas at El Paso. Her first novel, Border Healing Woman, won a Southwest Book Award in 1981, and her third, Afoot in a Field of Men and Other Stories from Dallas' East Side, won a Texas Circuit Book Award. In 1991, Taylor changed her named to Pat LittleDog and published In Search of the Holy Mother of Jobs.
Playwright and novelist William Thornton Hauptman was born November 26, 1942, in Wichita Falls, Texas. As a child in Wichita Falls, Hauptman attended many plays, readings, and magic shows in the large municipal auditorium there, and saw such actors as Charles Laughton and Gene Autry. He graduated from Wichita Falls Senior High School in 1961, and earned a B.F.A. in Drama from the University of Texas in 1966. His undergraduate degree focused on acting; Hauptman did not decide until graduate school that he wanted to pursue playwriting. He completed an MFA in playwriting at Yale University School of Drama in 1973. He then went on to teach playwriting at Adelphi College in Garden City, NY, 1973-75, and at Yale University School of Drama, 1976.
Hauptman is a successful dramatist. He won a Obie Award for Domino Courts/Comanche Café 1978. For Denmark Vesey (1981 PBS teleplay) he won a NAACP Freedom Foundation Award and an Emmy Award nomination. For Big River (1985), a Broadway musical based on Mark Twain's The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, with music written by Roger Miller, he earned a Tony Award for Best Musical Book. For the play Gillette, he won Los Angeles Drama League Award (1986).
His non-stage writing is equally well-recieved.For Good Rockin' Tonight and Other Stories (1986), he received the Jesse Jones Award for Best Fiction by a Texas Author from Texas Institute of Letters.
Hauptman served as Associate Professor at the Texas Center for Writers in 1996, and returned in 2000 to continue teaching. His novel, The Storm Season, originally published by Bantam Books in 1992, was published as a reprint edition by the University of Texas Press in Fall 2000, as part of the Southwestern Writers Collection Series.
In July, 1991, a team of photographers and oral historians from Texas State University set out to retrace the steps of Farm Security Administration photographer, Russell Lee (1903-1986). Fifty years after Lee visited and photo-documented the living and working conditions of the Depression era communities of San Augustine, Texas, and Pie Town, New Mexico, this group was inspired by Lee's FSA images held at Texas State's Wittliff Collections. The group visited these same two towns Lee visited, in some cases the same people, taking photographs and conducting oral histories. The team was funded by a grant from the Ford Foundation, and was led by Francine Carraro and Eric Weller. Students included Tom Anderson, Kathleen Dolan, Homero Garcia, Kerri Madden, Darryl Meyer, Stephanie Shaddock, Karen Sorenson, Mark Edward Smith, Russell Smyth, and Sondra Talbert.
The oral histories and photographs taken by this team led to an exhibit and accompanying catalog featuring selected photographs and portions of the oral histories. The exhibit was first shown at Texas State in September, 1992, and traveled to Southern Methodist University (Dallas, TX) and Stephen F. Austin University (Nacogdoches, TX) in 1993.
Jean Lee, widow of Russell Lee, and Bill Wittliff donated a significant collection of Russell Lee's vintage FSA prints and field notes, as well as cameras, personal papers, and photographs spanning Lee's entire lifetime and career, to the Wittliff Collections beginning in 1986. While other institutions such as the Library of Congress, National Archives, University of Texas at Austin, and the University of Louisville also hold important Russell Lee collections, the collection at Texas State University includes the largest group of vintage FSA prints.
Cindy Bonner was born June 14, 1953, in Corpus Christi, Texas. She attended University of Southern Mississippi (1971-73), and San Antonio College (1979). She won Honorable Mention, Roberts Awards, 1989, and third place for a short story, Byliners Contest, 1990. Her first novel, Lily (1992), was a finalist for the Western Writers of America's Pipe Bearer's Award. Her novels have been listed as "Best Books" by the American Library Association and have been translated into Spanish and German. Her most recent novel, Right from Wrong, won the Pen Texas Award in 1997.
In addition to raising two children, Ms. Bonner has worked in various professions, including as a yoga teacher, computer operator, real estate manager of a blues/rock band, and writer. She stated, "In 1982, with the encouragement of my husband, I bought a spiral notebook and began to teach myself to write… the hard way, through trial and error and a tidal wave of rejection letters. It is my goal to write fiction that someone, somewhere, will still be reading in one hundred years from now," (Contemporary Authors, 1999). Ms. Bonner currently lives and writes full-time in Yorktown, Texas.
Widely considered one of America's greatest living playwrights, Sam Shepard is also an accomplished actor, director, screenwriter, and musician. Born Samuel Shepard Rogers IV on November 5, 1943 in Fort Sheridan, Illinois, Shepard is the oldest of three children. His family traveled extensively before settling in Duarte, California, outside of Pasadena, where his childhood experiences informed themes that mark much of his later playwriting. Shepard described Duarte as a "weird accumulation of things, a strange kind of melting pot – Spanish, Okie, Black, Midwestern elements all jumbled together. People on the move who couldn't move anymore, who wound up in trailer parks." (Rolling Stone, 1986). Shepard told biographer Don Shewey that his alcoholic father "had a real short fuse," and that he was often the target of his father's anger. In high school he began acting and writing poetry. He also worked as a stable hand at a horse ranch in Chino, California from 1958-1960. Thinking of becoming a veterinarian, Shepard studied agriculture at Mount Antonio Junior College for a year; but when a traveling theater group, The Bishop's Company Repertory Players, came through town, Shepard joined them and left home. After touring with them from 1962-1963, he moved to New York City and worked as a bus boy at the Village Gate in Greenwich Village.
In New York, Shepard spent much of his time reading the works of playwrights and writing short "rock and roll" plays which frequently focused "on a single event, the characters often talking past one another or breaking into long monologues. However puzzling the action, these plays already ring out with Shepard's deft rhythms," (Contemporary Dramatists 1999). Shepard disavowed the narrative convention that required consistent character motivations, preferring instead to see his characters as capable of a wide variety of roles and actions. Shepard once told an interviewer that, "I preferred a character that was constantly unidentifiable, shifting through the actor, so that the actor could play almost anything, and the audience was never expected to identify with the characters," (Shewey, Sam Shepard, 1997, p. 51). Shepard reconsidered this initial approach to his writing as a result of the influence of New York director and acting teacher Joseph Chaikin. As Shepard said, Chaikin helped him understand that there's, "…no room for self indulgence in theater; you have to be thinking about the audience." (Kevin Berger, salon.com, January 2, 2001) Chaikin also convinced Shepard to begin re-writing his plays in order to discover the essence of the experience. Prior to that, Shepard said, his "tendency was to jam, like it was jazz or something." (Berger, salon.com, January 2, 2001)
Shepard's playwriting debut took place at Theater Genesis on October 16, 1964, with a double bill of Cowboys and Rock Garden. In 1966, he received a grant from the University of Minnesota, the first of several he would receive in the coming years. Also in 1966, he won an unprecedented trio of Obie awards for Chicago, Icarus' Mother, and Red Cross. The awards, presented by off-off Broadway champion The Village Voice, helped Shepard's career gain momentum at a time when critics remained wary of his works.
In 1967, Shepard wrote La Turista, his first full-length play, which won an Obie the same year. More Obies for his early works followed, including Melodrama Play and Cowboys #2 in 1968. Shepard also received grants from the Rockefeller Foundation in 1967 and the Guggenheim Foundation in 1968. Also in 1968, Shepard joined a rock band, the Holy Modal Rounders, playing drums and guitar. Although he played with the band for three years, he continued to write and received a second Guggenheim Foundation grant in 1971.
Shepard married O-Lan Jones Dark, an actress, on November 9, 1969, with whom he had one son, Jesse Mojo Shepard. Shepard and Dark divorced in 1984. In 1971, Shepard had a much-publicized relationship with rock singer Patti Smith. Together they wrote Cowboy Mouth, acting the parts on stage in the first night's performance.
In 1971, Shepard and family traveled to England, where four more plays premiered (The Tooth of Crime, Blue Bitch, Geography of a Horse Dreamer, and Little Ocean). Tooth of Crime was later presented in the U.S., winning an Obie in 1973. The next year, Shepard returned to the United States and served as the playwright in residence for The Magic Theater in San Francisco, a post he held for the next ten years. It was during this time that Shepard made his mark on mainstream American drama, winning the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1979 for his play Buried Child and producing his best-known plays, among them, True West in 1980.
In 1975, he took part in Bob Dylan's "Rolling Thunder Review," a nationwide touring group that included Joan Baez, Joni Mitchell, Allen Ginsberg, and William Burroughs. Shepard eventually published an account of the experience in 1987, titled Rolling Thunder Logbook. In 1978, Shepard began his film career, appearing in Bob Dylan's Renaldo and Clara and later that year in Days of Heaven, directed by Terence Mallick. Also in 1978, Shepard began his collaboration with Joseph Chaikin, with the theater piece, Tongues. Chaikin and Shepard would also collaborate on Savage/Love (1979), and The War in Heaven, which was presented on WBAI radio in 1985.
In the 1980s, his works continued to win awards. He won his eleventh Obie for Fool for Love (1984.) A Lie of the Mind won the New York Drama Critics Award in 1986. Also during the 1980s, Shepard's screenwriting and acting career began to grow. Screenplays included Me and My Brother, Zabriskie Point, and Fool for Love. His most popular and critically acclaimed film, Paris, Texas, won a Golden Palm Awards at the Cannes Film Festival in 1984. This screenplay was commissioned by German director Wim Wenders, and was based loosely on Shepard's Motel Chronicles. His acting roles included Resurrection (1980), Raggedy Man (1981), Frances (1982), The Right Stuff (1983), for which he received an Academy Award nomination, Country (1984), Fool for Love (1985), Crimes of the Heart (1986), and Steel Magnolias (1989). He wrote and directed Far North (1988), which starred Jessica Lange.
Shepard continued to write new plays in the 1990s, though his output has slowed from the dizzying pace of the 1960s-1970s. States of Shock premiered in 1991, and in 1992 a revised version of True West was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Drama. Simpatico opened in 1994, and his revision of Buried Child opened on Broadway in 1996 and received a Tony Award nomination. Another collaboration with Joseph Chaikin, When the World Was Green (A Chef's Fable) also premiered in 1996.
Shepard's collection of stories, Cruising Paradise, was published by Knopf in 1996. Curse of the Starving Class opened in 1997 and Eyes for Consuela (based on an Octavio Paz short story) was produced in 1998. In 2001, Shepard returned to San Francisco's The Magic Theater for the premier of his new play The Late Henry Moss.
Shepard's acting career also flourished through the 1990s and 2000s, with appearances in Defenseless (1991), Thunderheart (1992), The Pelican Brief (1993), and The Good Old Boys (1995), among others. Shepard wrote and directed the feature film Silent Tongue (1992). Some of his additional film appearances include All the Pretty Horses (2000), based on the novel of the same name by Cormac McCarthy, Blackhawk Down (2001), Swordfish (2001), The Notebook (2004), Stealth (2005), Walker (2005), and Bandidas (2006).
Shepard was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letter in 1986. In 1992, he received the Gold Medal for Drama from the Academy and in 1994 he was inducted into the Theater Hall of Fame. From 1983 to 2010, Shepard was in a committed relationship with actress Jessica Lange, with whom has two children, Hannah Jane Shepard and Samuel Walker Shepard.
Shepard's impact on modern theater can be gauged by the numerous scholarly books and articles devoted to his work, as well as the hundreds of productions of his plays, both in the U.S. and abroad.
Further readings:
American Dreams: The Imagination of Sam Shepard. Edited by Bonnie Marranca. New York: Performing Arts Journal Publications, 1981.
Auerbach, Doris. Sam Shepard, Arthur Kopit, and the Off Broadway Theater. Boston: Twayne, 1982.
Mottram, Ron. Inner Landscapes: The Theater of Sam Shepard. Columbia: Univ. of Missouri Press, 1984.
Shewey, Don. Sam Shepard. New York: Dell, 1985.
Patraka, Vivian M., and Siegel, Mark. Sam Shepard. Boise, Idaho: Boise State University, 1985.
Oumano, Ellen. Sam Shepard: The Life and Work of an American Dreamer. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1986; London: Virgin, 1987.
Hart, Lynda. Sam Shepard's Metaphorical Stages. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1987.
King, Kimball. Sam Shepard: A Casebook. New York: Garland, 1988.
Trussler, Simon, ed. File on Shepard. London: Methuen, 1989.
DeRose, David J. Sam Shepard. New York: Twayne, 1992.
Benet, Carol. Sam Shepard on the German Stage: Critics, Politics, Myths. New York: Peter Lang, 1993.
Wilcox, Leonard, ed. Rereading Shepard: Contemporary Critical Essays on the Plays of Sam Shepard. Basingstoke, Macmillan, 1993.
Wade, Leslie A. Sam Shepard and the American Theater. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1997.
Bottoms, Stephen J. The Theater of Sam Shepard: States of Crisis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998.
Novelist James Crumley was born in Three Rivers, Texas, on October 12, 1939 and spent most of his childhood in south Texas. He maintained a straight-A average in high school while also playing football. After graduation he attended the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta on a Navy ROTC scholarship, but soon left to enlist in the U.S. Army, where he served from 1958 to 1961. Crumley then returned to Texas and enrolled at Texas A&I (now Texas A&M University-Kingsville), where he had received a football scholarship. Crumley completed his BA in History in 1964, and was accepted into the University of Iowa's prestigious creative writing program, where he earned a MFA in 1966. Immediately after graduating he joined the English faculty at the University of Montana at Missoula. His masters thesis was eventually published as the novel, "One to Count Cadence, in 1969, a popular and critically acclaimed look at the Vietnam War. After his novel was published, Crumley left Montana to hold a series of visiting professorships: the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville (1969-70), Colorado State University (1971-74), Reed College in Portland, Oregon (1976-1977), Carnegie-Mellon University (1979-1980) and the University of Texas at El Paso (1981-1984.)
During a two-year stretch as a freelance writer (1974-1976) Crumley published the first in a series of crime novels for which he would become known. The Wrong Case (1975) featured a detective named Milo Milodragovitch, who would also appear in later novels. "I always introduce my work by explaining that I am a bastard child of Raymond Chandler – without his books, my books would be completely different. We cover some of the same ground, his dark streets in LA, my twisted highways in the mountain west. But because of the events surrounding the Vietnam War, my detectives are not as comfortable with traditional morality as Philip Marlowe seems to be," (Contemporary Authors, 2000).
In 1978 The Last Good Kiss (1978) was published, which introduced Crumley's other detective protagonist, C.W. Sughrue. His third crime novel, Dancing Bear (Milodragovitch series), was published in 1983. After leaving his last teaching job in 1984, Crumley has worked full-time as a writer. He's made his home base in Missoula, Montana since the mid-1980s. He has worked on film screenplays, which remain unproduced, and has continued to write and publish fiction. The Muddy Fork and Other Things: Short Fiction and Nonfiction was published in 1991, featuring many of Crumley's short stories. The detective series continued with The Mexican Tree Duck (Sughrue series) in 1993, and Bordersnakes (1996), which brought together Milodragovitch and Sughrue for the first time.
According to Robert E. Burkholder in the Dictionary of Literary Biography Yearbook (1984), Crumley's crime novels stand "the genre on its head by creating an antiheroic protagonist plagued by the weakness and vice of the corrupt world in which he lives and works and endowing him, nevertheless, with the sort of noble instincts that motivate him to sift through the scum in order to identify right from wrong. Crumley's detectives are curiously amoral moralists."
Crumley's final published works include The Putt at the End of the World (2000); the Milodragovitch series novel, The Final Country (2001); and one in the Sughrue series, The Right Madness (2005). He passed away September 17, 2008 from complications from kidney and pulmonary disease.
Children's author and cookbook writer Angela Shelf Medearis was born on November 16, 1956, in Hampton, Virginia. In 1975, she married Michael Rene Medearis, and the couple moved to Austin, Texas. She attended Southwest Texas State University, has one daughter, Deanna, and one grandchild, Anysa. After working as a secretary for a number of years Ms. Medearis began writing full time in 1987. She founded Book Boosters in 1988, a non-profit, grant supported, multicultural reading program tutoring and teaching literacy to grade school children. Her sister Sandra currently directs the program. In 1990, Medearis published her first book, Picking Peas for a Penny, a picture book counting rhyme. According to Medearis, "Picture books are a child's first step into a lifetime of reading. That is why I feel that my job is important. I want to write in such an interesting and exciting way that the memory of reading my book, and the information I've related about a particular event, will linger with a young reader for a lifetime." Medearis has gone on to publish dozens of children's books about Black Americans with real life themes, as well as history books geared towards young readers, such as Come This Far to Freedom (1993), and brief biographies of Coretta Scott King and Ida B. Wells.
Medearis routinely visits schools and performs storytelling, she produced Children's Radio Bookmobile for the University of Texas at Austin (a weekly program featuring multicultural children's literature), and curated Black American exhibits for the George Washington Carver Museum in Austin. Additionally, Medearis (and her husband, Michael) act as a consultants and writers for Scott Foresman, Scholastic, and Macmillan publishers, creating or contributing textbooks and children's books. Among many other awards, Medearis won the first ever Teddy, a children's-book award presented by Laura Bush (Poppa's New Pants, 1996). In 1997, Texas Monthly magazine featured Ms. Medearis and described her as the best-selling children's book author in Texas, with over 1.5 million copies of works in print. "I write the kind of books I always longed to find in the library when I was a child. Every child needs to find a reflection of himself or herself when looking for a book in the library or bookstore."
Poet and writer Tino Villanueva was born on December 11, 1941, in San Marcos, Texas, to a family of migrant workers. Because of the demands of traveling to harvest crops, Villanueva was never able to attend school regularly. Despite the hardships, he managed to graduate from San Marcos High in 1960 and began working on an assembly-line at a local furniture factory. In 1963, he was drafted into the United States Army in 1963 and spent two years in the Panama Canal Zone. There he became immersed in Hispanic literature, reading the works of poets such as Rubén Darío and Cuban revolutionary José Martí. Upon returning to San Marcos, he took advantage of the GI Bill to study English and Spanish at Texas State University-San Marcos. He completed his B.A. in three years and then moved to Buffalo, New York to attend the State University of New York. He finished his M.A. in 1971 and moved to Boston, where he began his doctoral studies at Boston University.
In the early 1970s, Villanueva began publishing his poems and he became part of what has been called The Chicano Literary Renaissance. His work highlights the tension as well as the richness of living within two different cultures. He writes in both English and Spanish, often switching between the two languages. In 1972, he published his first collection of poems, Hay Otra Voz Poems (There Is Another Voice Poems). That year he also wrote "Chicano Is an Act of Defiance."
After publishing Hay Otra Voz Poems, Villanueva began traveling widely, presenting readings throughout the United States and in Europe. He founded Imagine Publishers, Inc., and edited Imagine: International Chicano Poetry Journal. In 1980 he published a general anthology of Chicano literature, Chicanos: Antología Histórica y Literaria. A year later, Villanueva completed his doctorate in Spanish from Boston University and accepted a full-time faculty post at Wellesley College.
In 1994 Villanueva won the American Book Award for his book-length poem, Scene From the Movie GIANT. The poem was inspired by his boyhood in San Marcos, where he had first viewed the film at a segregated movie theatre. In 1995 Villanueva received the Distinguished Alumnus Award from Texas State University.
Villanueva has published several books of poetry since earning his Ph.D. He continues to teach, lecture, and research, and to develop his interest in painting. Villanueva currently serves as Preceptor in Spanish, Modern Foreign Languages and Literatures in the College of Arts and Sciences at Boston University.
Writer Jan Reid was born on March 18, 1945, in Abilene, Texas. After graduating from high school he enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, 1964-1970. He received his BA from Midwestern University in 1968 and then went on to receive his MA from the University of Texas in 1972. Reid began to write for the Mt. Pleasant Tribune and soon after quit to seek another job as the sports editor for the New Braunfels Herald in 1972. His break came in 1973 when an editor at Texas Parks and Wildlife magazine suggested he contact a publication that was just getting started in Austin. Texas Monthly needed young, hungry contributing writers. Along with Stephen Harrigan, Shelby Hearon, Prudence Mackintosh and others, Reid joined in on the ground floor in 1973 and became one of the upstart publication's first writers. He wrote countless stories for Texas Monthly and soon after became a contributing editor for the magazine.
In 1974 Reid published The Improbable Rise of Redneck Rock, which tells the story of "the movement that changed the face of traditional country music. It traces the development of the exuberant music community in Austin, Texas, from its formative years in the early sixties up to the flourishing activities of the present." "Like many Americans of my generation, I had fantasized my share of guarded moments over the turn my life would have taken had I been one of those lucky fellows with guitars slung like machine guns on their hips, mowing the audiences down."
He also started up Look Away Books, a small publishing company. While visiting Mexico, along with three friends, on April 20, 1998 he was shot by two robbers. Soon after Reid began to write a book, The Bullet Meant for Me, about his ordeal, describing how the shooting left him a paraplegic and his subsequent struggle to regain as much physical control of his body as possible.
Texas A&M University Press recently published Close Calls: Jan Reid's Texas, a collection of some of Reid's best-loved magazine pieces. Also, the March 2001 issue of Texas Monthly included a story, by Reid, about legendary Texas author Billy Lee Brammer and The Gay Place, Brammer's equally legendary novel about politics.
Reid passed away on September 19, 2020.
Elizabeth Crook was born in 1960 in Nacogdoches and raised in San Marcos, Washington DC, where her father directed VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America) under Lyndon B. Johnson, and Australia, where her father served as ambassador. Crook went on to Baylor University, and received her B.A. in English from Rice University.
In 1985, she began intensely researching what would become an article in the Southwestern Historical Quarterly (July, 1990), focused on the 1828 marriage of Tennessee governor Sam Houston and the 20 year old Eliza Allen. This article became the touchstone of her best-selling first novel, Raven's Bride, published in 1991 by Doubleday. The 750 page manuscript was accepted by the publisher after fifteen publishing houses had rejected it; Crook's soon-to-be editor at Doubleday, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, called her personally to accept it. Journalist and author Bill Moyers writes that in Raven's Bride, Crook "brought to life the great events of Texas past and turned them into a robust novel. The characters, the descriptions, and the drama are a panorama that only a fine historian or inspired novelist could handle to the reader's delight, and Ms. Crook is both."
In 1993, Crook was inducted into the Texas Institute of Letters. A year later, she published her second novel, Promised Lands: A Novel of the Texas Rebellion, also edited by Ms. Onassis at Doubleday. "At a time when war is sanitized, televised, and intellectualized, Crook's most important contribution may be her reminder of the insanity and sheer waste of it all… Though she probably did not intend it that way, her account of the slaughter at Goliad is one of the most powerful anti-war statements I've read" (Joyce Slater, Houston Post).
Crook currently lives in Austin, with her husband, Marc Lewis, a professor of psychology at the University of Texas, and their son.
Beverly Lowry was born August 10, 1938, in Memphis, Tennessee, and moved with her family at age six to Greenville, Mississippi. She attended the University of Mississippi (1956-58) and graduated with a B.A. from Memphis State University in 1960. She married Glenn Lowry in June 1960, and moved with him to Manhattan. There, she pursued acting and experimented in writing. After relocating to Houston in 1965, Lowry began to write stories, some of which became novels. Lowry began teaching fiction writing as an associate professor at the University of Houston in 1976, while also pursuing acting, and serving on boards for the Cultural Arts Council of Houston, and for Houston Festival. Her fiction writing has typically been set in Texas and Mississippi. Her first two novels, Come Back, Lolly Ray and Emma Blue were both set in Eunola, Mississippi a fictional town much like her hometown of Greenville. Her next three novels and one work of non-fiction were set in Texas, with her most recent novel, The Track of Real Desires, being again set in the fictional Eunola, Mississippi.
The Lowrys lived just outside San Marcos along the San Marcos River from 1981-1991. One of the Lowrys' two sons, Peter, died in a hit-and-run accident on the highway from San Marcos to their home in 1984. This experience and other personal losses in the early 1980s "caused a marked change in the tone of Lowry's fiction. Gone is her unqualified faith in the future; present is a new preoccupation with fate or chance, even a hint that felicity may invite disaster," (Contemporary Southern Writers, St. James Press, 1999). These themes of isolation and alienation appear in The Perfect Sonya(1987), The Track of Real Desires (1994), and clearly in Crossed Over: A Murder, A Memoir (1992). Beginning in 1989, Lowry approached and visited convicted pickaxe murderer Karla Faye Tucker, on death row in Hunstville, Texas. Crossed Over relates the story of Karla Faye Tucker as well as some of Lowry's own personal story, resulting in "far more than the usual true-crime tale. Lowry interwove the story of her own troubled son with a chilling account of Tucker's dangerously out-of-control life to achieve an understanding of the human being behind an ostensibly inhuman act; her leap of imagination and empathy enabled her, at last, to make peace with Peter's death," (Texas Monthly, Feb. 2001). Lowry moved to Los Angeles in the early 1990s, and currently teaches at George Mason University, in Virginia. She continues to write essays and non-fiction, and has been working on a biography of Madame C. J. Walker, the first Black woman to become a self-made millionaire.
Texas novelist and journalist Frederick Benjamin Gipson was born February 7, 1908, in Mason, TX, and is best known for his novel, Old Yeller. He graduated from high school in 1926, worked various jobs until he attended the University of Texas from 1933-37. Although he did not complete his degree, he found work as a reporter for the Corpus Christi Caller-Times from 1938-40. He began working as a freelance writer in 1940, publishing many short stories, especially in the Southwest Review. His first non-fiction book, Fabulous Empire: Colonel Zack Miller's Story, was published in 1946, and his first fictional work, Hound-Dog Man in 1949.
Gipson went on to publish many more fiction and non-fiction works, winning numerous awards, and garnering special recognition for Old Yeller, which was pronounced a classic almost immediately after its publication in 1956. Although many of his fictional works were written for young audiences, "Fred Gipson's tales of the Texas hill country have charmed young and old, in print and film, for more than three decades... (He) was a top-notch storyteller, he had a good ear for dialect and a light hand in transcribing it. He handled well, if not very originally, that most familiar them in American fiction: initiation," (William T. Pilkington, Twentieth Century Western Writers). Old Yeller, Savage Sam, and Hound Dog Man (as Return of the Texan) were all produced as films, working from scripts by Gipson. The author died at his home near Mason, in 1973.
Writer Dagoberto Gilb was born in Los Angeles. Gilb graduated from the University of California at Santa Barbara in 1973 with a double major in Philosophy and Religious Studies. In 1976, he earned a master's degree in Religious Studies.
After a career as a carpenter and a journeyman. Gilb got his first break when Wendy Lesser of the The Threepenny Review agreed to publish one of his stories in 1992. Over the next decade, Gilb published stories with increasing frequency and he also received occasional appointments as a writer-in-residence at colleges and universities. After winning California's James D. Phelan Award in 1984, Gilb was solicited for a book by a friend in El Paso. In 1985 a collection of Gilb's stories,Winners on the Pass Line, became the first publication issued by Cinco Puntos Press. In 1988 Gilb received a Dobie-Paisano Fellowship from the Texas Institute of Letters. In 1992, the National Endowment for the Arts awarded Gilb a fellowship for Creative Writing.
His next publication was The Magic of Blood. which was a finalist for the PEN/Faulkner Award given for the best fiction of the year. It also earned Gilb the PEN Ernest Hemingway Foundation Award for the best first fiction, the Jesse Jones Award for best book of fiction from the Texas Institute of Letters, and a Whiting Writer's Award.
Gilb's novel The Last Known Residence of Mickey Acuna was published by Grove Press in 1994. The national recognition continued to pour in and the novel was named a New York Times Notable Book. In 1995 Gilb received a Guggenheim Fellowship. Two of his stories appeared in the Best American Essays collections.
Dagoberto Gilb currently teaches in the Master of Fine Arts Creative Writing Program at Texas State University and he resides in Austin, Texas
J. Dunston Milner was born near Muleshoe, Texas on October 30. 1926. The son of John and Nina Milner, "Jay" moved with his family around small towns in West Texas, following the development of cotton farms. The Milner family settled in Lubbock while Jay was in the second grade, and he later became a member of the Lubbock High Westerners state champion football team. After graduating from high school, Milner attended college at Lubbock's Texas Technological College, but then entered military service because of World War II. While in the Navy, Milner also attended school at Pittsburgh College. After his discharge from military service, Milner earned his Bachelor's degree from Mississippi Southern University in 1948, later earning his Master's degree, also from MSU, in 1951.
After college, Milner taught at the high school level and coached football for three years, and then moved to the Mississippi Delta area during the racially turbulent 1950s, working at the Hattiesburg, Mississippi Hattiesburg American, and the Pulitzer-Prize winning Democrat-Times of Greenville, Mississippi. In 1959 Milner moved to New York to join the staff of the now-defunct New York Herald Tribune to serve as the assistant to the editorial page editor. In 1961, having recently published his first novel, Incident at Ashton, Milner quit his job and returned to Texas to concentrate on his writing. It was at this time that Milner met and became friends with a group of Texas men who were also becoming writers: Bud Shrake, Gary Cartwright, Dan Jenkins, and Billy Lee Brammer.
After a few years as a freelance writer, in 1965 Milner joined the faculty of Texas Christian University in Fort Worth as a professor of journalism, and three years later moved on to Southern Methodist University to serve as the Acting Chair of the Journalism Department. After leaving his job at SMU, Milner worked as a news anchor for the Fort Worth PBS affiliate for one year. After resigning his news anchor job, for a brief time Milner took over editorial responsibilities for Iconoclast, a Dallas weekly newspaper that had been created as an underground paper in the 1960s.
Milner was the founding editor of the short-lived Texas Music magazine, but the magazine folded quickly due to financial problems. After the bankruptcy of Texas Music, Milner moved with his mother and daughter to Lufkin. While in Lufkin, Milner began to write a column for the Lufkin Daily News. The Daily News was eventually bought by Cox Newspapers, and Milner wrote for the newspaper and Cox for over fifteen years. Since 1995, Milner has lived in Fort Worth with his wife Gail, whom he married in 1983. Upon his move to Fort Worth, Milner began to concentrate on a memoir of his days as a Texas writer in the sixties and seventies. The book, Confessions of a Maddog: A Romp through the High-flying Texas Music and Literary Era of the Fifties to the Seventies, was published in 1998.
Dr. Robert A. Calvert was born in 1933 in Stephenville, Texas. Calvert earned undergraduate and masters degrees in history from North Texas State University, where he taught history from 1967-1973. Calvert also taught at the University of Texas at Austin, where he received his Ph.D. in history, from 1973-75. In 1975, Calvert then relocated to Texas A & M, where he taught and further developed his specialization in the history of Texas and the New South until the time of his death. Many of his texts on ethnic and labor history, 20th century Texas, and the Progressive Movement in the South were required reading for college level Texas history courses. In addition to teaching and writing during his tenure at Texas A & M, Dr. Calvert served as coordinator of history graduate studies, was a member of the TAMU Press' Faculty Advisory Committee, and co-editor of the Press' Southwestern Studies series. Dr. Calvert contributed to the Handbook of Texas, consulted on numerous Texas history related projects, and served as president of the Texas State Historical Association. He died November 30, 2000, at home in College Station, Texas.
Books Published:
The Dallas Cowboys and the NFL Chipman, Donald E; Campbell, Randolph; Calvert, Robert. Norman, University of Oklahoma Press, 1970.
Chicano: the evolution of a people. Rosaldo, Renato, comp.; Calvert, Robert A.; Seligmann, Gustav L. Minneapolis, Winston 1973.
Texas Vistas: selections from the Southwestern historical quarterly. Wooster, Ralph A.; Calvert, Robert A. Austin: Texas State Historical Association: Center for Studies in Texas History, University of Texas at Austin, 1980.
Black Leaders: Texans for their times. Barr, Alwyn; Calvert, Robert A. Austin, TX: Texas State Historical Association, 1981.
W.R. Strong: his memoirs. Strong, W. R. 1833-1916. Gunter, P. A. Y.; Calvert, Robert A. Denton, TX: Terrill Wheeler Printing for the Denton County Historical Commission, 1982.
The History of Texas. Calvert, Robert A.; De León, Arnoldo. Arlington Heights, IL: H. Davidson, 1990.
Texas History and the Move into the Twenty-First Century. Buenger, Walter L.; Calvert, Robert A. Austin, TX: Texas Committee for the Humanities, 1990.
Texas Through Time: evolving interpretations. Buenger, Walter L.; Calvert, Robert A. College Station: Texas A&M University Press, 1991.
Cartooning Texas: one hundred years of cartoon art in the Lone Star State. Forman, Maury B.; Calvert, Robert A. College Station, TX: Texas A&M University Press, 1993.
Austin City Limits, a television program showcasing musicians in concert performances, was founded in 1974 by Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) affiliate station KLRU-TV in Austin, TX. The show's creators were Bill Arhos, then program director, as well as Paul Bosner and Bruce Scafe, who subsequently produced and directed programs for the series. Their aim was to develop a locally produced program that could attract national attention through distribution to PBS affiliates. Capitalizing on the growing Austin music scene of the 1970s, Arhos received PBS funding for a pilot show featuring Willie Nelson and Family.
Station executives across the country liked the pilot and funded filming for Austin City Limits first season, thirteen shows that were taped in 1975 and premiered in 1976. Austin City Limits continues to follow that filming schedule with each season taped during one calendar year and aired the next. The one-hour programs usually pair two musicians, each given thirty-minute segments in which to deliver an uninterrupted, concert-style performance to a studio audience. Nationally known artists are often paired with lesser-known regional or local performers, giving those lesser-known artists a chance to be seen by the whole country. Although the mainstream country and progressive country genres have been staples of the program, Austin City Limits has also featured an eclectic mix of American music: jazz, blues, folk, pop and rock. Studio 6-A in the Communications building on The University of Texas (UT) campus is the permanent home for the show. Some members of the production crew have been with the show since the beginning. In November 2003, Austin City Limits became the first television program ever to be awarded the National Medal of Arts by the National Endowment for the Arts.
The donor of this collection, Bill Arhos, was co-creator of Austin City Limits and executive producer of the show until his retirement in 1999. A Texas native and graduate of Rice University, he received his Master of Educational Administration from Texas A & M. A semi-pro baseball player and a schoolteacher for part of his career, Arhos began working at KLRN-TV, now KLRU, in 1961. He was an instructor in Radio/TV/Film at UT from 1965-1970. He served six years on the PBS Board of Directors and completed two terms on the Country Music Association (CMA) Board of Directors in 1994. Over four decades in public television, Arhos produced and directed educational and entertainment programs, series and specials, and served as program director, general manager, and president of KLRU. He passed away on April 11, 2015 at the age of eighty.
William Broyles, Jr. was born October 8, 1944 in Houston, Texas, and was raised in Baytown. He attended Rice University, earning a B.A. in History in 1966. While at Rice, Broyles was an active member of the student body and a contributing editor to the student newspaper, The Rice Thresher. As early as 1966, Broyles was also contributing articles to the Houston Post. Broyles served as president of the Rice student association during the 1965-1966 academic year, and was awarded the Hugh Scott Cameron award for outstanding community service. He has remained a strong supporter of the University throughout his career, delivering the commencement speech in 1983, and receiving the Distinguished Alumni Award in 1993.
After graduating from Rice, Broyles was invited to study as a Marshall Scholar at Oxford University where he earned an M.A. in Politics, Philosophy, and Economics in 1968. While at Oxford, Broyles pursued his interests in both journalism and public service. He wrote political columns for the Oxford University magazine and contributed articles to the Economist of London. He also spoke throughout England for the United States Information Service. He later worked briefly for Leo Kramer, Inc., a Washington, D.C. social sciences consulting firm as a consultant on Model Cities, Manpower, and VISTA training programs.
In 1968, Broyles's career was put on hold when he was drafted into the United States Marine Corps. Between 1969 and 1971, he rose to the rank of First Lieutenant and served in Vietnam, first as an infantry commander, and later as an aide-de-camp to the Assistant Division Commander, 1st Marine Division. Due to his education background and experience, his assigned duties included social issues with an emphasis on the refugees in the Quang Nam Province. Broyles received the Bronze Star and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry with Silver Star.
Broyles's experiences in Vietnam inspired two of his most critically acclaimed projects. In 1984, he was one of the first veterans to return to Vietnam, and his book Brothers in Arms: A Journey from War to Peace, recounts his visit and his impressions of the aftermath of war on himself and his fellow soldiers, as well as on the country he fought against in battle. In 1988, Broyles once again drew upon his memories in Vietnam when he co-created the award-winning television series, China Beach, a weekly drama for ABC about the doctors and nurses stationed at an American military base in Danang.
Upon returning from Vietnam in 1971, Broyles picked up his professional career. He taught Philosophy and Political Science at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis before returning to Texas as Chief Public Relations Officer for the Houston Independent School District. After a brief period of time in public service in Houston, Broyles was provided the opportunity to pursue his other primary interest, journalism. He became the founding editor of Texas Monthly magazine in 1972.
Broyles's and Texas Monthly publisher Michael R. Levy's goal was to create a magazine of national quality in Texas, and Broyles spent eight years doing just that. Within its first year, the publication won a National Magazine Award for excellence; and during Broyles's tenure it quickly gained recognition as a "writer's magazine," offering intelligent and entertaining articles on Texas life ranging from politics, culture, art, sports, the environment, social issues, and entertainment. The award-winning magazine continues today as an example of quality journalism with a regional focus and a national readership.
In 1980, Broyles and business partners, including Michael Levy, purchased New West magazine from Rupert Murdoch. Broyles served as editor-in-chief of the magazine from 1980-1982, and saw it through its redesign and re-naming as California. By 1982, Broyles's impressive track record in the magazine publishing world had caught the attention of Katherine Graham who recruited him to serve as editor of Newsweek magazine. He held that position from 1982-1984 when he resigned to pursue other interests.
During the next few years, Broyles made one more foray into the magazine publishing world, serving as editor-in-chief of Cable Guide, but he focused primarily on developing his writing career. In addition to Brothers in Arms, he wrote a three-act play titled Boot, about three soldiers in a bunker in Vietnam joined by a new recruit that they nickname "Boot". The plot follows the four young men as they struggle to cope with the realities of war.
In 1988, Broyles found critical success with the television series China Beach. In addition to co-creating the show with John Sacret Young, Broyles also wrote or co-wrote several of the early episodes, and remained producer and creative consultant throughout the run of the show. In 1991, the Golden Globe-winning China Beach went off the air, but Broyles was well into production on his second television project, Under Cover, a political espionage series following the adventures of husband-and-wife secret service agents, Dylan and Kate Del'Amico. The series was short-lived, and Broyles next adapted the Nigel Hamilton novel, J.F.K.: Reckless Youth, for a 1993 television mini-series of the same name starring Patrick Dempsey as the young future president.
Also in 1993, Broyles turned his attention from television projects to writing feature films. He shares his first screenwriting credit with former Texas Monthly writer, Al Reinert for Apollo 13. The film, based loosely on the novel Lost Moon, co-authored by astronaut James Lovell and Jeffrey Kruger, was directed by Ron Howard. It was met with both critical and box office success, and Broyles and Reinert were nominated for the Academy Award for best adapted screenplay.
After Apollo 13, Broyles began work on Cast Away, an original screenplay about a FedEx executive stranded on a deserted island. Released in 2000, the film was produced by Ron Howard and Brian Grazer, directed by Robert Zemeckis, and it features Tom Hanks as the resilient Chuck Noland. Apollo 13 and Cast Away secured Broyles's place as an A-list Hollywood screenwriter, and he holds writing credits on several other motion pictures including Entrapment (1999), Planet of the Apes (2001), Unfaithful (2002), Polar Express (2004), and Jarhead (2005). Broyles continues to write.
Born in Duluth, Minnesota on March 16, 1890 to Henry S. Mahon and Helen Brooks Mahon, Winifred Mahon Sanford enjoyed a brief but noteworthy literary career from 1925 to 1931. Her 15 short stories appeared popular magazines of the day such the American Mercury and the Woman's Home Companion. She has been called an "unjustly forgotten" Texas author whose work realistically captures the social transition in post-World War I Texas brought about by the oil boom.
Educated for a year at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts (1909), she received a degree in English from the University of Michigan in 1913. Before marrying law student and naval officer Wayland H. Sanford in 1917, Winifred Mahon taught high school in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan and in Idaho, then worked as a librarian in New York City. In 1920, the Sanford's first daughter, Emerett, was born in Duluth. Soon after that, Winifred Sanford followed her husband to Wichita Falls, Texas, where he had found employment as an oil and gas attorney. Their second daughter, Helen, was born in their new home in 1922. Although she is known primarily for her short stories, Sanford's first published work, "England and the Home-Rule Question," appeared in the South Atlantic Quarterly in 1913 when she was still at the University of Michigan. Her early work includes unpublished, possibly autobiographical stories she wrote as a child and portraits of family members. Once established in Wichita Falls, Sanford joined The Manuscript Club, a literary group that met for the first time in 1922 and included published authors Anne Pence Davis and Fay M. Yauger. Along with three other members of The Manuscript Club, Sanford was elected as a member of the Texas Institute of Letters. The women belonging to this club encouraged each other's writing aspirations, providing a forum in which to discuss and critique members' works. By January 1925 Sanford's story "Wreck" was published in the American Mercury, edited by H. L. Mencken. Sanford and Mencken established a regular correspondence in which he encouraged her writing endeavors. She went on to publish eight more short stories in the American Mercury, as well as others in the Woman's Home Companion, The North American Review, and Household until 1931. In addition, three of her works were listed in J. O. O'Brien's The Best Short Stories of 1926, which brought her to the attention of several literary agencies. One such agency was the Paget Literary Agency, which represented Sanford for several years. Sanford began working on a novel in 1925 that she submitted to Paget two years later. In 1931 the Sanford family moved to Dallas, where Winifred Sanford continued to work on her novel but had little success publishing it, nor is there any record of short stories written during this time. Because no copy of her novel appears in her Papers, it is assumed that she disposed of it. The Sanford's third daughter, Mary, was born in 1933. The next year an article entitled "Derrick Jargon," co-authored with Clyde Jackson, was published in 1934 by Southern Methodist University in The Southwest Review. Winifred Sanford suffered a long-term illness in 1937 which kept her bed-ridden for over a year, after which no other new articles, novels, nor stories were published. In 1938 Sanford submitted a detective novel to the Paget Literary Agency with no success. She attempted to sell one last short story, "Deep C," to three magazines in 1945, but none of the editors thought the story would appeal to their readers. Sanford's story "Windfall" was reprinted in several anthologies and textbooks from 1928 to 1988, and other stories appeared in collections in 1982 and 1998. However, no collection was dedicated solely to her works until 1980. She and her family privately published Windfall and Other Stories, a collection of 13 of her 15 short stories originally printed between 1925 and 1931, as well as two stories not originally intended for publication. Winifred Mahon Sanford died at the age of 93 on March 24, 1983, but she left a distinguished legacy. Windfall had caught the attention of Suzanne Comer, senior editor at Southern Methodist University Press, who in 1987 began the process of securing permission to reprint the collection as a part of the Southwest Life and Letters Series of SMU Press. The family agreed to the reprinting, and in November 1988 it appeared and gained regional acclaim, with reviews appearing in newspapers and such publications as Legacies, Belles Lettres, Southwestern Historical Quarterly, Western American Literature, and Texas Books in Review. *. Her writing skills have been compared to Katherine Ann Porters', and one critic claimed that Sanford's fiction was "some of the best creative work to date on Texas during the oil boom of the 1920s." This flurry of attention to Sandford's work led to a film entitled The Stars Fell on Henrietta in 1995. The screenplay, based on Sanford's story "Luck," was written by Sanford's grandson Philip Railsback and produced by Clint Eastwood's production company. In early 1997 The Dallas Museum of Art and the Friends of the Dallas Public Library hosted a program called "Arts and Letters Live: A Literary Celebration," in which Sanford's "Windfall" was read by Sheriden Thomas. In 2004, Helen Sanford donated her mother's literary papers to the Southwestern Writers Collection.
* Legacies, vol. 1, no. 1 (Spring 1989); Belles Letters (Spring 1990); SHQ (Apr 1990); WAL (vol XXV no. 2); TBIR (Summer 1989)
** attributed to a member of the SMU Press in Dallas Woman, (Dec 1988); San Marcos Daily Record (Dec 4, 1988); Literature & History (Winter 1988)
Sanford, Winifred. Windfall and Other Stories, 1980.
Sanford, Winifred, Windfall and Other Stories, Dallas: Southern Methodist University Press, 1988.
Mary Gray Hughes, the daughter of Texas author and newspaperman, Hart Stilwell and his first wife, Mary Gray Seabury, was born in Brownsville, Texas on August 25, 1930. A prolific and respected author in her own right, Hughes wrote and was published almost continuously for nearly three decades from 1969 until dying from cancer in Chicago, IL in September, 1999. Throughout her life, she received numerous awards for her writing. She received the National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship in Creative Writing (1978), was Illinois Writer in Residence from 1977-1980, had her stories anthologized in Best American Short Stories (1962, 1972), had her stories mentioned in Best American Stories (1974-1975), and was elected a member of the Texas Institute of Letters in 1983.
Hughes graduated from Brownsville High School in 1947 then attended The University of Mexico for a summer before completing her education at The University of Texas and Barnard College. While at Barnard, she participated in Phi Beta Kappa and graduated Magna Cum Laude in 1951 with a Bachelor of Arts. After receiving a Fulbright Scholarship for two years, she pursued a Master of Letters in Social Anthropology. She graduated in 1953.
In this same year, she married J.R.T. Hughes. Moving to Illinois, Hughes gave birth to a son, Benjamin in 1960, and twin girls, Charis and Margaret, in 1962. Starting in 1954, Hughes worked continuously at a variety of jobs – almost all in the teaching, publishing, and writing fields. She was an editor at Bowker Publishing Co. and People's Book Club, and was the Writer in Residence of the Illinois Arts Council. She conducted writing workshops at high schools and colleges; served as consultant for the Illinois Arts Council; was writer-consultant to the graduate program in Creative Writing for the University of South Alabama; lecturer in English at Lake Forest College; lecturer in English at Northwestern University, and a judge for the Texas Institute of Letters.
All the while, Hughes worked on her own writing and had numerous short stories, poems, and books published. Notable among her works are the short story collections, The Calling and Cora's Seduction and Other Stories, and the novel, The Empty Lot. This collection of papers represent the materials published by Puckerbrush Press as Cora's Seduction and Other Stories, and were donated to Texas State University's Wittliff Collection by the Press in 2003.
Author Rick Riordan was born in San Antonio, Texas, in 1964. He graduated from The University of Texas at Austin with degrees in English and History, and in 1988, he received his teaching certification from The University of Texas at San Antonio. He began graduate studies in English and Medieval Studies at San Francisco State University and then pursued a career in education in Oakland, California, where he taught middle and high schools. He continued teaching English for fifteen years in both the San Francisco Bay Area and Texas. Riordan has since retired from teaching to focus his energy on writing full-time.
Like many successful authors, before writing and publishing full-length novels Riordan honed his craft by writing short stories. "The Sheet Cave" and "Out on 1040" were featured in Cactus Alley in 1988. "A Small Silver Gun" was featured in Family Circle Mary Higgins Clark Mystery in the summer of 1998. His short stories have also appeared in Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine.
Riordan is perhaps best known for his popular series of mysteries books featuring Tres Navarre, a San Antonio private detective, martial arts master, and English Ph.D. in Medieval literature. In 1997, Big Red Tequila, the first in the Navarre mystery series was published. It won the Anthony Award for best original paperback and the Shamus award for the best first private investigator novel. He followed this early success with the second in his series, The Widower's Two- Step in 1998. This novel also won Anthony and Shamus awards, as well as the Edgar award for best original paperback. The Last King of Texas (2000) was a featured alternate for the Mystery Guild, and The Devil Went Down to Austin (2001) was also critically acclaimed. His newest mystery, and the fifth in the Tres Navarre series, is Southtown, which was published in 2004. Riordan also writes novels outside of the Tres Navarre series. Cold Creek was published in 2003 and placed on the American Library Association's top-ten suspense novels list. In 2003, he was inducted into the Texas Institute of Letters.
Riordan uses his native South and Central Texas as locations for many of his novel's settings, and his admiration for this area is apparent. However, he had not always anticipated that he would write about the region. At The Scene of the Crime, a panel discussion held in the Wittliff Collections in 2004, Riordan reflected that distancing himself from the area helped him to appreciate it: "I didn't have any desire to write about San Antonio at all until I moved to California…I had to move away, and I had to appreciate what I knew before I wanted to write about it."
Artist Edward "Buck" Muegge Schiwetz (1898-1984) was born in Cuero, Texas on August 24, 1898 to banker William Berthold and his wife, Anna (Reiffert) Schiwetz. He inherited his artistic talents from his mother, whose pencil drawings served as a model for the young Schiwetz. Further influenced by a local china painter, Mary Louise Gramann, Schiwetz's early paintings depict his subjects in clear, precise strokes. Cabin in the Woods, his earliest work, reflects this style.
Schiwetz graduated from high school in 1916, and although he was unable to realize his dream of attending art school, he made the best of his education, and it provided a strong foundation for would later develop into a very successful artistic career. He attended college at the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, what is now Texas A&M University, receiving his degree in architectural design in 1921. In 1922, after a year of graduate studies in Architecture at Texas A&M, Schiwetz moved to Dallas in search of work as an architectural drafter. To supplement his income initially, he created advertisement sketches, working under John Doctoroff and Guy Cahoon. He then landed a job with the architectural firm Thompson and Swaine, where he worked for two years.
On January 30, 1926, Schiwetz married fellow artist, Ruby Lee Sanders, a sculptor and ceramist. The couple moved to Houston in 1928 where Schiwetz did freelance rendering and advertisement art for a year before they moved to New York City. While in New York, Schiwetz further pursued his craft and enrolled in the Art Student's League where he studied etching and lithography. It is during this time period that he sold his art work to magazines, including Pencil Points, a volume of which contains an interview with E.M. Schiwetz and is part of this collection. According to that interview, Schiwetz admired and studied the work of Otto Eggers, Joseph Pennell, and Louis Rosenberg, among others.
After their brief stay in New York, the Schiwetz couple moved back to Houston where E.M Schiwetz became a partner in what was to become Wilkinson – Schiwetz and Tips, which later became McCann-Erickson. While in Houston, he and his wife had a daughter, Patricia, in 1931.
Schiwetz won many awards for his sketches and paintings of Texas buildings, landscapes and oilfields throughout the 1930s and 1940s. He also won the Houston Popular Prize in 1951-1952. His work was exhibited throughout the country, including the Library of Congress in Washington D.C. and the Art Institute of Chicago. Other honors bestowed upon him include his selection as the official state artist of Texas for 1977-1978 and as the artist-in-residence at his Alma Mater, Texas A&M during the school's centennial celebration in 1976. Various books of his sketches have been published, including Buck Schiwetz' Texas in 1960 which contains an introduction written by Walter Prescott Webb, one of Schiwetz' former high school teachers.
Schiwetz suffered a heart attack and stroke in 1974 causing temporary paralysis on his right side and then had surgery to remove cancer in 1976. Despite these health setbacks, Schiwetz continued to work, always experimenting with and perfecting his art. He died on February 2, 1984.
Cash Edwards, a fourth generation Texan, spent many summers at her grandparents' farm in San Benito, Texas, where she encountered a wide variety of American and Mexican music through live performance and radio. Throughout her childhood and adolescence, she traveled with her Air Force father and experiences exposed her to classical music, ballet, and European folk music which fostered her appreciation of American folk music.
Edwards received her BA in Economics from Wells College in New York prior to returning to Texas where she pursued a graduate degree in Agricultural Economics at Texas A&M University. After her time at A&M, she migrated to Austin around the same time as some of the other Bryan/College Station "front porch" crowd which included Robert Earl Keen and Lyle Lovett.
Edwards moved to California in 1984 where her tenure as the publicist for Freight and Salvage and her work with the historic Fort Mason Club in San Francisco helped evolve her company into a booking agency and Under the Hat Productions was born.
Returning to Austin in 1987, Edwards began booking bluegrass, Cajun, folk, and Texas singer-songwriters. Her logo was designed by Austin artist Guy Juke. Roger Polson joined as a partner in 1998. She, and later, her team, guided the careers of many successful national and regional acts. Edwards closed the agency in 2000, after 16 years, and went on to work as a publicist for the Folk Alliance.
Grover Virgil Lewis, Jr. was born November 8, 1934, in San Antonio, Texas. Tragedy struck the Lewis family when Grover was eight years old during an encounter between Grover's mother and his estranged father that led to a double-homicide with each parent allegedly murdering the other by gunshot. Lewis was soon removed to Fort Worth, Texas, where he lived with the blight of, in his own words, a "haunted" and "painful" existence while in the abusive household of his maternal aunt and her husband. After five years, he fled to live with his uncle, "Spook" Bailey, in the Fort Worth suburb of Oak Cliff.
At Oak Cliff, Lewis attended W.H. Adamson High School and worked at the Texas Theater, a site made infamous some years later as the location where Lee Harvey Oswald was taken into custody. He graduated from Adamson in 1953 and moved to Denton to attend North Texas State College where he majored in English and Drama. It was around this time that Lewis married and fathered a son and a daughter with his first wife, Peggy. At North Texas he also found a "kindred spirit" in future Pulitzer Prize-winner Larry McMurtry. Together Lewis and McMurtry —"each being the only aspiring writer the other knew"— found their way around the back roads and byways of Texas. And Lewis, like McMurtry, began his career as a writer while attending North Texas. He and McMurtry both won various student writing awards for poetry, fiction, and nonfiction in Avesta, the school's literary magazine; and Lewis's creative work was soon published in other literary magazines and journals such as Carolina Quarterly, New Mexico Quarterly, and The Nation. Samuel French Inc. published his play Wait for Morning, Child, after winning the company's national collegiate writing contest. Also while at North Texas, Lewis and McMurtry and a third North Texas student, John Lewis (no relation to Grover) self-published two issues of The Coexistence Review, a literary magazine full of original poetry, short fiction, and essays that became notoriously controversial on campus. Knowing that after graduation they were both headed in different directions —both moving away from Denton— Lewis and McMurtry intended the magazine as a token of gratitude devoted to several inspiring professors at North Texas. The school's administration, however, was not as enthusiastic about the project as the 200-plus students who eagerly bought-out the magazine. According to Lewis's book proposal for his unfinished memoir Goodbye If You Call That Gone, "The administration sent out growls of disapproval via channels. Somebody had to explain the 'political error' of the red lone-star cover to us. It began to be whispered around that there would be a loyalty investigation of some sort…whether conducted by the school or the state legislature, nobody would say."
The Coexistence Review was interpreted as a thinly-veiled attempt to broadcast communist propaganda; and Lewis and McMurtry were thus prohibited from publishing in the school's accepted literary magazine, Avesta (although the two had been named winners of the semester's literary awards). But the threatened investigations never materialized, and Lewis and McMurtry both graduated on schedule from North Texas State College in 1958 with a bachelor's degree in English. Lewis left Denton but remained in Texas, contributing book and music reviews to several of the state's metropolitan newspapers such as the Dallas Times Herald and the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
In 1960, Lewis was named a National Defense Act fellow and moved to Lubbock to pursue a Ph.D. at Texas Technical College (now Texas Tech University). While a graduate student at Tech, he again wrote for the school newspaper and edited Tech's literary magazine, The Harbinger. Lewis also worked as a graduate teaching assistant, and his students included Ponty Bone and Jimmie Dale Gilmore — both of whom became acclaimed Texas musicians.
While in Lubbock, Lewis found himself frustrated by the conservative culture, lifestyle, and politics of the South Plains. Around 1960, he made plans to leave and set out to find and write about blues musician Lightnin' Hopkins. Lewis traveled to Houston's Third Ward and spent a week with Hopkins writing what eventually became a 5-part series published years later in The Village Voice (1968) and winner of a Sigma Delta Chi writing award.
It was during this time, circa 1963, that Lewis discovered his passionate interest in film journalism. Accepting an invitation from McMurtry, Lewis spent a week on the film set of Hud in Amarillo, a motion picture adaptation of McMurtry's novel Horseman, Pass By. Lewis's unrealized notes from his experience in Amarillo became the blueprint from which he would work seven years later, with his famous Rolling Stone article about the filming of The Last Picture Show.
After returning from Houston to his graduate studies at Lubbock, Lewis met fierce resistance to his scathing review in the school paper of a Christian, anti-communist tract written by Billy James Hargis. He was subsequently dismissed from his duties as columnist for the school paper, abandoned by his professors, and received death threats by phone and mail. Lewis's appeals for help — to, among others, the Students for a Democratic Society - fell on deaf ears. Lewis, in turn, not only dropped out of graduate school, but divorced his wife and signed away parental rights to his two children.
Out of school and without his doctorate, Lewis returned to the copy desk of the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, where he slipped into the life of a hard-drinking newsman. During his three-year tenure at the Star-Telegram, he contributed frequent reviews to the book page and began the first pop music column for a daily newspaper in the state of Texas. In 1966, Lewis moved to Houston as a reporter for the Houston Chronicle, but quit two years later to write copy for a Houston advertising and public relations firm. A year later, in 1969, Lewis moved to San Francisco, California, to work as a West Coast correspondent for The Village Voice.
Although his term at the Voice was brief (1969-1970), Lewis was able to utilize his unique position at the epicenter of youth-culture activity by covering such milestones as the Native American takeover of Alcatraz Island and the Rolling Stones concert at Altamont Speedway. It was Lewis's coverage of the Altamont murder that caught the eye of Jann Wenner, founder, editor-in-chief, and publisher of one of the nation's newest and most unpredictable magazines, Rolling Stone.
From 1970 to 1973, Lewis worked as Associate Editor of Rolling Stone magazine, in charge of features on film and books. Rolling Stone's independent spirit proved auspicious for Lewis. He was allowed to self-assign stories and follow his own initiative; and in doing so, produced electrifying pieces of New Journalism, notably his "Splendor in the Short Grass" — a piece The New York Times later called "extraordinary" — which revolved around the wealth of in-house drama running throughout the big-budget motion picture production of director Peter Bogdanovich's The Last Picture Show, a film adaptation of yet another Larry McMurtry novel. Due to the praise and popularity of that reportage, Lewis was able to continue producing on-location features for Rolling Stone, interviewing such eminent talents as Robert Mitchum, Sam Peckinpah, Robert Redford, and Paul Newman.
Although Straight Arrow Press, the publishing arm of Rolling Stone, published two books featuring Lewis's work—I'll Be There In the Morning, If I Live (poetry) and Academy All The Way (collected Rolling Stone coverage)—his relationship with Jann Wenner soured, in large part due to a baulked agreement between Wenner and Lewis over a book Lewis was contracted to write with friend Sherry Kafka about Texas politician John Connally. Lewis describes Wenner — dubbing him "Citizen Wenner" — as a capricious and manipulating editor, a "bottom-feeder" with a personality "exacerbated by cocaine." Lewis sued Wenner over the Connally deal for breach of contract and was awarded $10,000 in an arbitration proceeding.
After marrying Rolling Stone employee Raona Ence Seavey in 1973, Lewis quit the magazine and moved with Rae to her home state of Utah where he found work despite Wenner's attempt to blacklist him professionally. Lewis worked briefly as a freelance writer for Playboy and Oui magazines before moving back to California—Los Angeles, this time—in late 1976 to write for New West (later named California), a nascent publication at the time.
At New West, Lewis continued where he left off at Rolling Stone, writing pieces about Bette Midler, Elisha Cook, Jr. (from The Maltese Falcon), and Hustler publisher Larry Flynt. Lewis was walking with Flynt outside the county courthouse in Lawrenceville, Georgia, when the publisher was shot in an assassination attempt. The article, "The Shooting of Larry Flynt: An Eyewitness Account by Grover Lewis," was published as a cover feature for the March 27, 1978, issue of New West. In addition to celebrity profiles, Lewis wrote opinion-driven pieces for New West, such as his "Buried Alive in Hype: My Years Among The Reality Vultures," which was nominated for a National Magazine Award in 1979.
During the 1980s, as freelance magazine work became more elusive, Lewis turned to newsprint, contributing stories and book reviews for The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times Sunday Magazine, The Los Angeles Times Book Review, and The St. Petersburg Times. It was also during this time that Lewis worked as book editor of Movieline magazine and began copious research for his unrealized novel, The Code of the West, based on the Western cinema-heroes of Old Hollywood.
In 1992, Lewis began to confront the troubling memories of his childhood with his Texas Monthly article "Farewell to Cracker Eden," nominated for a PEN West award for journalism in 1993. On the strength and poignancy of that well-received article, he was awarded a contract with HarperCollins to write a memoir under the editorial guidance of Judith Regan. Unfortunately, the memoir—which was to be titled Goodbye If You Call That Gone—remained unfinished due to Lewis's untimely death from lung cancer on April 16, 1995. His widow, Rae Lewis, began donating his literary archives to the Wittliff Collections in 2001.
In 2005, University of Texas Press published Splendor in the Short Grass: The Grover Lewis Reader, a collection of Lewis's journalism and poetry spanning his nearly forty-year career. The collection preserves Lewis's work—and reputation—as one of New Journalism's founding fathers and most fearless mavericks. In his New York Times book review of Splendor, Roy Blount, Jr., calls Lewis's work "Impressive" and "worth preserving." "Lips were loose in those days," as Blount recalls, "and Lewis took every advantage." Information used in this biographical note was extracted from the following sources: Lewis's proposal of his non-fiction memoir, Goodbye If You Call That Gone, R. K. Scott's "Grover Lewis: The Uncommon Insight and Grace of an Ordinary Man," and Jan Reid and W.K. Stratton's essay, "Star-Crossed: A biographical sketch of Grover Lewis," from Splendor In The Short Grass: The Grover Lewis Reader.
John Wesley Hardin was born on May 26, 1853 in Bonham, Fannin County, Texas, the second of James Gibson and Elizabeth Cartwright Dixon Hardin's eight children. Hardin's father was a circuit-riding Methodist preacher and named his son after the founder of the Methodist sect.
J. G. Hardin moved the family frequently during Hardin's childhood. They settled in Moscow, Polk County, in 1855, then moved in 1859 to Sumpter, Trinity County, where J. G. Hardin taught school. In 1861, J. G. Hardin passed the bar and moved the family to Livingston, Polk County, Texas where he taught school and practiced law.
After the war, in 1865, the family returned to Sumpter. In 1868, the 15 year old John Wesley Hardin killed his first victim, a former slave. Texas was ruled by the military according to congressional reconstruction policies and Hardin believed that he would not receive a fair trial. He fled and later claimed to have killed three soldiers who were sent to arrest him and that his relatives and neighbors helped him bury and hide the evidence. In 1869, his father sent him away from the area to teach school in Pisga, Navarro County, where other relatives lived. He left the school after one term to take up more lucrative pursuits. He developed his skills in gambling and became enamored of horse racing. By the end of 1869, Hardin by his own admission had killed a freedman and four soldiers. In December of that year he killed Jim Bradly in a fight after a card game. His life subsequently became a pattern of gambling, saloons, fights, and killing.
In 1871, Hardin visited his relatives, the Clements, in Gonzales County. J. G. Hardin's sister Martha Balch had married Emmanuel Clements and Hardin was close to his first cousins, Mannen (or Manning), Joe, and Gip. They convinced him to go with them on a cattle drive to Abilene, Kansas. Hardin used his gun often on the drive. Among his victims were an Indian who shot at him with an arrow and five Mexicans with whom he had argued for crowding his herd. In rough and ready Abilene, Hardin fraternized and sparred with Wild Bill Hickock and Ben Thompson. When his cousin Mannen Clements was jailed for the killing of two of Clements' cowboys, Hardin made arrangements with Hickock for Mannen to escape. Later Hardin killed a man at his hotel and fled Abilene fearing arrest by Hickock.
Hardin returned to Gonzales County, Texas, where he and the Clements piled up indictments (Marohn 44). Hardin married Jane Bowen on February 29, 1872. Jane was fully aware of Hardin's way of life and remained totally loyal to her husband through all the vicissitudes of their married life. Hardin was frequently apart from Jane, often to avoid the law. In August 1872, Hardin was wounded after being shot by Phil A. Sublett who had lost money to Hardin in a Trinity City Saloon. Hardin tried to hide out while he recovered but finally gave himself up when his whereabouts were discovered. Along with an indictment for assaulting Sublett, Hardin had several other indictments outstanding when he was arrested. He was sent to Gonzales County at the request of Sheriff W. E. Jones who held warrants against him (Marohn 56). He broke out of the Gonzales County jail with the help of Mannen Clements.
On February 6, 1873, Hardin's first child Mary Elizabeth (Mollie) was born. In April, he killed J. B. Morgan in a Cuero barroom, one of the two killings for which he would ultimately be convicted. The same year, he became embroiled in the Taylor-Sutton feud as a leader of the Taylor faction. Hardin was related by marriage to the Taylors and both Taylors and Suttons relied on the loyalty of kin. Hardin and Jim Taylor killed the powerful and ruthless Sutton supporter, Jack Helm. In March of 1874, Hardin and his older brother Joseph aided Billy and Jim Taylor in their assassination of the leader of the Sutton faction, Bill Sutton, as he boarded a boat in Indianola on his way to New Orleans. After Bill Sutton's murder, Hardin put together another cattle drive and journeyed to Comanche to say goodbye to his family. On May 26, he was celebrating his winnings from a horse race, drinking at the Comanche saloons, when he met up with deputy sheriff Charles Webb from neighboring Brown County. Webb was killed and the crowd turned against Hardin and his companions. Hardin escaped but his father, brother Joseph, and other kinsmen were arrested. Joseph Hardin and two cousins were taken from jail at night and lynched. Hardin, vowing to avenge his brother's death, fled Texas followed by his wife and daughter. Under the name of J. H. Swain he relocated in Florida among his wife's relatives. He later moved his family to other Bowen relatives in Pollard, Alabama across the Florida border. John Wesley Hardin, Jr. was born August 3, 1875. A daughter, Callie, (later renamed Jane Martina and called Jennie) was born July 15, 1877.
In 1873, Reconstruction had ended in Texas with the election of Richard Coke over radical Republican E. J. Davis. As soon as the former confederates were returned to power, the populace was eager to see an end to the violence and lawlessness which had been rampant since the end of the war. Coke re-established the Texas Rangers in 1874, in part to reinforce local law enforcement in their ineffectual fight against cattle thieves, gangs and feudists. He created a Special Force whose first duty was to end the Sutton-Taylor feud. In 1877, John B. Armstrong, a second Lieutenant in the Special Force, requested that he be commissioned to find and arrest the fugitive Hardin. A Dallas detective Jack Duncan was hired to live undercover among Jane Hardin's relatives in Gonzales County in order to learn where Hardin was. Jane's brother, Brown Bowen, also a fugitive hiding in Alabama, betrayed their whereabouts when he wrote his father and told him that his sister Jane sends her love. Armstrong and Duncan went to Pensacola Junction in Florida and made arrangements with the sheriff to arrest Hardin on the train as he was returning home to Alabama on August 23, 1877. They overpowered Hardin and transported him back to Texas where they lodged him in the Austin jail. Under heavy guard by the Texas Rangers, Hardin was taken to Comanche County and tried for the murder of Charles Webb in September of 1877. He was convicted to 25 years in the state prison but appealed the sentence on technical grounds. He was returned to Austin October 6, 1877 to await his hearing. Hardin's brother-in-law, Brown Bowen, was also in the Austin jail sentenced to die by hanging for the murder of Thomas Haldeman. The Bowens asked Hardin to take the blame for the Haldeman murder. Hardin refused maintaining his innocence. Jane Hardin stood by her husband, thereby estranging herself from her father. Brown Bowen was hung proclaiming Hardin was the guilty one to the very last.
In June 1878, Hardin's conviction was upheld. He entered prison in Huntsville on October 5, 1878. He made several unsuccessful attempts to escape and was harshly punished each time. Eventually he settled into prison life, joined the debating society, attended Sunday school and studied law. In January 1892, Hardin was sent to Cuero, Texas where he plea bargained a 2 year concurrent sentence for the 1873 murder of J. B. Morgan. He was released from prison February 17, 1894 after 15 years and 5 months with time off for good behavior. He rejoined his children in Gonzales County. His wife Jane had died November 6, 1892.
Hardin's attorney wrote Governor Hogg for a full pardon based on the fact that Hardin had completed his sentence and was "behaving in an orderly manner." (Marohn 180) The pardon was granted on March 16, 1894. Hardin then passed a law examination and set up practice in Gonzales. He became embroiled in a controversy with W. E. Jones in Jones' campaign for Gonzales County sheriff. Hardin supported Jones' opponent and charged that Jones had helped him escape from prison in 1872. When Jones won a close election, an embittered Hardin left Gonzales and moved to Junction where his brother Jeff was living. By December, he opened a law office there. In January he married the 15 year old Callie Lewis but she left him soon after.
A relative, Jim Miller, asked Hardin to come to Pecos in far West Texas to give legal assistance in his feud with the Pecos County Sheriff, Bud Frazer. Miller was suspected of several murders himself, and when Hardin consented to help him, he was walking straight back into his old way of life. The Miller case ended with a hung jury and Hardin drifted to El Paso. He set up a law office there but soon let his practice slide. He again frequented saloons, gambled, drank to excess and got into fights. On August 19, 1895, John Selman, with whom Hardin had been arguing, shot Hardin in the back of the head as he threw dice at the bar of the Acme Saloon.
Pulitzer Prize winning novelist and playwright, Cormac McCarthy, was born Charles McCarthy, Jr., on July 20, 1933, in Providence, Rhode Island. He was the third of six children born to Charles and Gladys McCarthy, preceded by sisters Jackie and Bobbie, and followed by Bill, Maryellen, and Dennis. In 1937, his parents moved the family to Knoxville, Tennessee, where his father was employed as a lawyer with the Tennessee Valley Authority.
McCarthy spent much of his life in Tennessee, and his early works are clearly influenced by that region. His first four published novels, The Orchard Keeper (1965), Outer Dark (1968), Child of God (1973), and Suttree (1979), reflect the culture, myth and character of East Tennessee and Appalachia.
McCarthy briefly attended The University of Tennessee (UT) from 1951 to 1952 before serving four years in the U.S. Air Force, including two years in Alaska where he hosted a radio program. In 1957, he returned to UT where he published the short stories "A Drowning Incident" and "Wake for Susan" in the student literary magazine, The Phoenix. His literary talent did not go unrecognized at UT, and McCarthy received the Ingram-Merrill Award for creative writing in 1959 and 1960, firsts in a long list of literary accolades to come.
In 1960, McCarthy left UT without his degree and moved to Chicago where he worked part time in an auto parts warehouse and pursued his writing. He married poet and former UT student, Lee Holleman; the couple had one son, Cullen. In 1961, they moved to Sevier County, Tennessee, where the marriage ended in divorce in 1962. McCarthy left Tennessee again, this time moving to Asheville, North Carolina, and then New Orleans where he continued work on his first novel, The Orchard Keeper. Set in rural Tennessee between the two world wars, it is the story of a boy, John Wesley Rattner, and the bootlegger, Marion Slyder, who has killed the boy's father.
McCarthy has notably kept his distance from reporters, but in 1992 he granted Richard Woodward a rare interview published in The New York Times Magazine. In that interview, he confessed that he sent the manuscript for The Orchard Keeper to Random House because, "it was the only publisher I had heard of." At Random House, McCarthy was paired with renowned editor, Albert Erskine, who had worked with literary giants such as Robert Penn Warren, Ralph Ellison, and William Faulkner. McCarthy's Southern Gothic novels continue to be compared with those of the latter, and McCarthy's debut novel earned him the William Faulkner Foundation Award in 1965. Erskine remained McCarthy's editor for over twenty years - until his retirement in the mid 1980s. Blood Meridian (1985) was their final collaboration.
In the same year The Orchard Keeper was published, McCarthy received the prestigious American Academy of Arts and Letters traveling fellowship, and he used the funds to go to Ireland. En route on the ocean liner, Sylvania, he met English dancer and singer, Anne De Lisle, and the two were married in England in 1966. A Rockefeller Foundation grant McCarthy received that same year supported the couple as they traveled through Europe and lived briefly on the Spanish island of Ibiza where McCarthy began work on his second novel, Outer Dark. They eventually moved to Tennessee, settling in Rockford, near Knoxville.
Outer Dark was published in 1968. It tells the story of brother and sister, Culla and Rinthy Holme, who have a child together. He lies, claiming the child has died, and leaves to search for paying work. She then searches for her "littlest chap." Like McCarthy's debut novel, Outer Dark was a critical, if not popular, success. The selection committee for the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation agreed with the critics, and McCarthy was awarded a Fellowship for Creative Writing in 1969.
McCarthy's third novel, Child of God, was published in 1973. The story of the isolated mass murderer and necrophile, Lester Ballard, is loosely based on an historical figure in Sevier County, Tennessee. Like his previous works, Child of God could not be considered a commercial success, but a steady following of devoted readers and critics grew.
Following Child of God, McCarthy departed from the novel format to write the script for The Gardener's Son, an episode in the PBS series, Visions. It first aired January 6, 1977 and starred Brad Dourif, Ned Beatty, and Kevin Conway as members of two feuding South Carolina families, the wealthy Greggs, and the blue-collar McEvoys.
Suttree, McCarthy's fourth novel, was published in 1979. Written over the span of twenty years, the semi-autobiographical novel set in the early 1950s follows Cornelius Suttree, a fisherman on the Tennessee River who lives on the fringe of society after severing ties with his family and abandoning his wife and son. Many of the characters are reflections of people that McCarthy knew in Knoxville and the surrounding area.
By the time Suttree was published, McCarthy was living in El Paso, Texas. He had separated from De Lisle in 1976, and the two divorced in 1978. In 1981, McCarthy won a coveted MacArthur Fellowship, commonly referred to as a "genius grant." The five-year grant provides recipients with "flexibility to pursue their creative activities in the absence of specific obligations or reporting requirements," and it allowed McCarthy to concentrate on his next writing project.
McCarthy's move to the southwest brought a shift in the settings of his novels. He began work on what he termed his "western," which was published in 1985 as Blood Meridian. In his 1992 interview with Woodward, McCarthy states, "I've always been interested in the Southwest. There isn't a place in the world you can go where they don't know about cowboys and Indians and the myth of the West." In Blood Meridian, McCarthy tackled the myth of the West head-on with his mid-nineteenth century border story of "the kid" and a band of American mercenaries hired to kill and scalp Indians in Mexico. The novel firmly thrust McCarthy into the center of the American literary canon. Critic Harold Bloom declared Blood Meridian, "the authentic American apocalyptic novel," stating, "The fulfilled renown of Moby-Dick and of As I Lay Dying is augmented by Blood Meridian, since Cormac McCarthy is the worthy disciple both of Melville and of Faulkner. I venture that no other living American novelist, not even Pynchon, has given us a book as strong and memorable."
McCarthy followed Blood Meridian with three novels set on the Texas-Mexico border in the mid-twentieth century, and which reveal the dreams and coming-of-age of two remarkable characters, John Grady Cole and Billy Parham. All the Pretty Horses (1992), The Crossing (1994), and Cities of the Plain (1998), known collectively as "The Border Trilogy," were McCarthy's first novels published after Erskine's retirement and McCarthy's move from Random House to Knopf. They also mark another significant shift in McCarthy's career -- for the first time, his novels were bestsellers.
McCarthy continued to receive praise from critics; All the Pretty Horses won the National Book Award in 1992 and the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1993. And he received personal accolades with his induction into the El Paso Herald-Post Hall of Fame in 1991 and his reception of the Texas Institute of Letters Lon Tinkle Lifetime Achievement Award in 1997. In 2000, All the Pretty Horses was released as a film directed by Billy Bob Thornton and starring Matt Damon as John Grady Cole. Ted Tally wrote the screenplay.
While McCarthy is best known for his novel writing, he has also written in other formats. The Stonemason, a play about an African-American family in Louisville, Kentucky that he wrote in the 1970s was revised and published by Ecco Press in 1994. And in 2006, Sunset Limited, a novel in dramatic form originally performed by Chicago's Steppenwolf Theatre Company, was published in paperback by Vintage Books.
McCarthy initially began No Country for Old Men as a screenplay in the 1980s, but he eventually abandoned the format. Instead, the suspenseful story of sociopathic killer Anton Chiguhr's pursuit of Llewelyn Moss was published in 2005 as his ninth novel. Ethan and Joel Coen adapted it for film in 2007, starring Javier Bardem as Chiguhr, Josh Brolin as Moss, and Tommy Lee Jones as sheriff Ed Tom Bell. In interviews supporting the film's release, the Coen brothers joked that in adapting the novel for the screen, one of them simply held the book open while the other typed. The film won four Academy Awards, including best picture, and best screenplay adaptation.
McCarthy's tenth novel, The Road, was published in 2006. The post-apocalyptic story of a father and son's journey across a ruined landscape was dedicated to his son John Francis, from his third marriage to Jennifer Winkley. The novel won McCarthy the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for fiction as well as the United Kingdom's oldest literary award, the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for fiction. In March 2007, Oprah Winfrey selected The Road as a reading for her popular book club, and the reclusive McCarthy made his first televised interview on her show that year.
McCarthy currently resides in the Santa Fe, New Mexico area, where he enjoys an affiliation with the multi-disciplinary Santa Fe Institute and continues to write.
Book collector and bibliographer, J. Howard Woolmer, wrote to Cormac McCarthy praising both Outer Dark (1968) and McCarthy's first novel, The Orchard Keeper (1965) after reading Robert Coles' review of Outer Dark published in the March 22, 1969 issue of The New Yorker. In his July 29, 1969 letter, Woolmer states his intent to begin collecting all of McCarthy's work and asks if the author would be willing to sign copies of his books. In his August 16 reply, McCarthy agrees. These letters mark the first of over 120 sent between the two men from 1969 to 2006.
By 1969, Woolmer had been in the book selling business for almost ten years. Operating out of the literary Mecca of New York City, he issued his first catalogue in 1961. His early catalogues were of modern first editions and on the works of literary giants such as James Joyce. Woolmer soon began issuing catalogues based on single subjects; the first on the Imagist Poets (1966) and then, in 1969, on the novelist Malcolm Lowry, author of Under the Volcano. He has since published a bibliography on Malcolm Lowry; A Checklist of the Hogarth Press; and a bibliography of the Leonard L. Milberg Irish Theatre Collection.
In a 2007 interview, Woolmer stated that he had initially moved away from modern firsts because "I didn't get enough of a kick from the books of contemporary writers." However, with Cormac McCarthy he had discovered an exception, and over the next thirty years he amassed a remarkable collection of signed first editions, advance proofs, and foreign imprints of McCarthy's books. The Wittliff Collections purchased these books in 2006 along with the collection of letters between McCarthy and Woolmer.
Clifford Antone opened the music venue, Antone's, in Austin, Texas in 1975, at the age of 25. The venue was one of the first on Austin's 6th Street and contributed to the city's establishment as the "Live Music Capital of the World." Some of the artists that performed at Antone's include Fats Domino, John Lee Hooker, Delbert McClinton, Pinetop Perkins, Muddy Waters, Albert Collins, Jimmy Reed, Clarence "Gatemouth" Brown, B.B. King and many other famous blues musicians. Antone also helped launch the careers of Jimmie and Stevie Ray Vaughan.
In 1987, Antone started the Antone's record label and record store in Austin, still in operation on Guadaulpe Street. He also was active with numerous social and educational organizations, such hosting fundraisers for disadvantaged youths and teaching classes at local universities and colleges. Antone passed away on May 23, 2006, but the club remains open, at its third location, on W. 5th Street in Austin. In 2009, Antone was indicted into the Blues Hall of Fame in Memphis, Tennessee.
Anthony "Lucky" Tomblin, is a songwriter and the lead vocalist of The Lucky Tomblin Band. In the 1980s, he founded The Fire Station recording studio in San Marcos, Texas, and produced albums for artists such as the Texas Tornados, Joe Ely, Flaco Jimenez, and Jerry Jeff Walker. Lucky was the Executive Producer of the independent film, Antone's: Home of the Blues.
Antone's: Home of the Blues was directed by Dan Karlock and produced by Colleen Saro. It premiered at the 2004 South by Southwest film festival in Austin, Texas. Through archival footage, contemporary interviews and performances both old and new, the documentary chronicles Clifford Antone and the legendary blues club he founded in 1975.
Writer and director Robert Douglass Benton was born on September 29, 1932, in Waxahachie, Texas. He is the son of Ellery Douglass and Dorothy (Spaulding) Benton. Benton attended The University of Texas at Austin and received a BFA in 1953. His classmates included Jayne Mansfield and Rip Torn, an actor he would direct in the 1987 film Nadine. While serving in the U.S. Army from 1954-1956, Benton painted dioramas at Fort Bliss. He was discharged with the rank of corporal. He enrolled at Columbia University to study Art History but dropped out after one semester. Benton would then begin his professional career as a freelance writer and artistic associate at Esquire.
Benton remained with Esquire for several years where he worked in various editorial capacities. Here he would meet future collaborator David Newman. The pair published Extremism: A Non-Book (1959) and wrote the libretto for the Broadway musical It's a Bird…It's a Plane…It's Superman (1966). Benton's first film industry success was with Bonnie and Clyde (1967), a screenplay he co-wrote with Newman. Starring Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty, the film was critically acclaimed and Benton and Newman received an Oscar nomination for best story and screenplay. His other early writing credits include There Was a Crooked Man (1970), What's Up Doc (1972), and Oh! Calcutta! (1972).
Paramount president Stanley Jaffe encouraged Benton to move into directing. He made his directorial debut in 1972 with Bad Company, a wild west adaptation of Dickens' Oliver Twist starring Jeff Bridges, Barry Brown, and David Huddleston. Benton directed The Late Show in 1977 and wrote the screenplay for Superman (with Mario Puzo and David and Leslie Newman) in 1978. His next directorial role was with the 1979 film Kramer vs. Kramer. A box office hit and critical success, the film won the Oscar for Best Picture while Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep also won Oscars for their performances. Benton won Oscars for Best Director and Best Screenplay.
1982's Still of the Night saw Benton direct Meryl Streep again in a starring role. Benton directed and wrote the screenplay for Places in the Heart (1984), a semi-autobiographical film starring Sally Field. The film was honored with two Oscars; Benton won Best Screenplay while Field won Best Actress. He wrote and directed Nadine in 1987 and directed Billy Bathgate, an adaptation of an E.L. Doctorow novel, in 1991. It was the first film that Benton directed but did not write. Benton directed Paul Newman in the 1994 adaptation of Richard Russo's Nobody's Fool. A friendship was forged and Benton and Newman worked together again on Twilight (1998). Benton directed the 2003 adaptation of Phillip Roth's The Human Stain. His most recent work as a director is the 2007 film Feast of Love. Benton is currently working on the screenplay for North of Cheyenne, slated for a 2011 release.
There is not a lot of information available about Jody Fischer. She was born December 21, 1949. During the 1970's she lived in New York City where she was active with the music scene. She was a musician and writer herself. According to a 1991 Texas Monthly article, she started following Willie Nelson in the early 1970's helping wherever she could. When he purchased the Pedernales Country Club in 1979, she was hired on as his personal secretary. Her job was to schedule studio time for Willie and his musician friends, assist Lana Nelson with charitable work, and generally assist in managing the property. She also had a small part in his movie, the Red-Headed Stranger, which was filmed on the property.
When Willie Nelson began the Farm Aid movement, Jody took calls coming in from famers and their families, and is often quoted as being a compassionate listener. She was very close to the extended Nelson family, as well as involved in diverse causes such as Farm Aid and Native American civil rights.
Jody passed away on December 25, 2003, at the Christopher House hospice for cancer patients, in the Willie Nelson room.
Nadine Ellen Cannon was born in McAllen, Texas on January 20, 1931. After graduating from high school in 1948, Eckhardt enrolled in North Texas State College in Denton, Texas to pursue a Bachelor of Arts degree. While there she met her first husband, writer Billy Lee Brammer, whom she married in 1950 when she was nineteen years old. In 1951, she and Brammer moved to Austin where she worked for the University of Texas and briefly at the Austin American-Statesman newspaper. Two daughters, Sidney and Shelby, were born during this time. After several years in Austin, she and Brammer moved to Washington D.C. in 1955 to work on the staff of Texas Senator Lyndon B. Johnson. The marriage to Brammer began to deteriorate, and she moved back to Austin pregnant with their third child, William. The couple eventually divorced in 1961. During this time, Brammer released his critically acclaimed, but controversial book, The Gay Place, a fictional account of Texas politics.
Now single and working at the State Capitol, Nadine met Robert "Bob" Eckhardt, a Texas state representative from Houston, whom she married in 1962. The couple moved to Houston, Eckhardt's hometown, and the birthplace of their only child, daughter Sarah. In 1966, Bob Eckhardt ran for Congress. Eckhardt won, and Nadine moved to Washington, D.C. There she performed the duties of a congressman's wife as well as helping to manage Eckhardt's congressional staff. She became involved in women's rights issues and the Civil Rights movement of Dr. Martin Luther King. The Eckhardts separated in 1976 and divorced in 1977. Nadine moved back to Austin, Texas. After her divorce from Bob Eckhardt, Nadine opened a restaurant in east Austin – Nadine's, and she ran it for a year and a half.She moved to New York City and worked for another restaurant, also named Nadine's, owned by her daughter Sarah's boyfriend. In 1991, Nadine moved back to Austin permanently. While living in Austin, Eckhardt worked as an assistant to writer Molly Ivins, in real estate, and worked on Ann Richards' gubernatorial campaign in 1992. In 2009, Eckhardt released, Duchess of Palms, a memoir of her life and work in Washington D.C. and Austin, Texas. The title was inspired by a beauty pageant she had won as a teenager.
Eckhardt passed away on December 8, 2018.
Sam Shepard and Johnny Dark met in New York City in the early 1960s. Dark married Scarlett Johnson, and Shepard married one of Scarlett's daughters, O-Lan, with whom he had a son, Jesse Shepard. Over the next several years, the two couples lived together in Greenwich Village, Newfoundland, and California; and through the decades, Dark and Shepard have remained close friends. When distance separated them, they wrote letters back and forth, beginning with the Shepards' stay in England in 1972, and then beginning in earnest in 1983 when Shepard left the family for a relationship with Jessica Lange, whom he had met on the set of Frances. Shepard's son, Jesse, remained with the Darks in California, and Dark often accompanied Jesse on visits to his father.
The friendship and letters of Sam Shepard and Johnny Dark are the subject of a documentary by Director Treva Wurmfeld (Shepard and Dark, 2012), and their collection of letters are published by The University of Texas Press in Two Prospectors: The Letters of Sam Shepard and Johnny Dark (2013).
Robert "Bob" Compton is a fifth generation Texan. He graduated from Teague High School in 1944. Compton attended Texas A&M University from 1944 through 1945, when he left to join the United States Navy. Compton served in the United States Navy from 1945 through 1945. He then entered Southern Methodist University, majoring in Journalism. He graduated in 1949 and began his first newspaper job as a Reporter for the Pampa (Texas) Daily News. Compton worked at the Pampa Daily News until 1950, when the Garland Daily News (later changed to the Garland Herald) hired him as a Reporter. Compton worked as a Reporter for the Garland Daily News until 1956.
In 1956, the Dallas Morning News hired Compton as a General Assignments Reporter. He worked in this position until 1957, when he was promoted to Assistant Editor. Compton served in this capacity until 1976, when he created and became Editor of the Focus section of the Dallas Morning News. This section included news analysis and special features. In 1982, the Dallas Morning News assigned Compton to be editor of the Books section. Compton served as Editor of both sections until the Focus was discontinued in 1984. Compton acted as Editor of the Books section, as well as Special Assignments Editor from 1984 through 1990. Compton continued as the Books Editor of the Book Pages section of the Dallas Morning News from 1990 until his retirement in 1998. Through Compton's employment at the Dallas Morning News, he initiated and maintained correspondences with many influential and well-known journalists and writers, including Jim Lehrer, Larry McMurtry, and William Goyen. His correspondences show long-lasting working relationships, as well as friendships, based on respect and mutual admiration. While acting as Books Editor, Compton was responsible for determining policies regarding book reviewers. Through his tenure at the Dallas Morning News, Compton developed well-respected and recognized sections of the Dallas Morning News.
Compton has been a member of the National books Critics Circle, the Texas Institute of Letters, and the Texas Folklore Society. While serving as Books Editor, Compton helped launch the Poetry in Motion program in Dallas, Texas, in 1998. He received the Media Award from the Book Publishers of Texas Association in 1988. In 2012, Compton was named a Living Legend of North Texas Journalism.
The Lonesome Dove miniseries originated from a chance meeting between Motown Productions president Suzanne de Passe and author Larry McMurtry in which de Passe asked McMurtry about his current project. McMurtry subsequently sent a copy of his unpublished Lonesome Dove to de Passe who quickly snatched up the film rights. The book was published in June 1985, and went on to spend 20 weeks on the New York Times best seller list. It received the 1985 Pulitzer Prize, the Spin Award for Best Western Novel of 1985 and the Texas Institute of Letters Jesse Jones Award for Best Fictional Book.
Lonesome Dove originated as a screenplay called The Streets of Laredo, which was intended as a vehicle for John Wayne, Henry Fonda and James Stewart. The 288-page script was written by McMurtry with Peter Bogdanovich in 1972. The project failed to materialize and McMurtry eventually chose to expand the idea into a sprawling 843-page novel eulogizing the Texas past, both factual and mythical, as represented by the horseman and cowboy. Motown Productions contracted with CBS Television to air the western as an eight-hour miniseries. Bill Wittliff, who had scripted the westerns Barbarosa (1982) and Red Headed Stranger (1986), was signed to write the teleplay. He also served as Executive Producer. Filming began March 1988 in Austin, Texas; moved to Del Rio, Texas in April and then to Santa Fe, New Mexico, in May, wrapping in July after 88 days of shooting. The film, directed by Simon Wincer and starring Robert Duvall, Tommy Lee Jones, Robert Urich, Danny Glover, Anjelica Huston and Diane Lane, aired on CBS in February 1989 to high ratings and critical acclaim.
Among Lonesome Dove's many awards were seven Emmys for directing, sound editing, sound mixing, makeup, costume, music, and casting. It also received a Peabody Award and two Golden Globe Awards, one for best miniseries and one to Robert Duvall for best actor in a miniseries. Duvall, already a celebrated actor noted for a distinguished career, reported that the character Gus was a favorite role, and he remarked "When I was doing The Godfather, I knew we were doing something big. When I was doing Lonesome Dove, I got the same feeling. I've only felt that a couple of times in my life." (New York Tribune, Feb 6, 1989) Bill Wittliff reminisced "sometimes something just takes over and is a good example of that. I think every element works, from cast to crew to wardrobe to Jerry [sic] White's art design and the production design . . . it was just a beautiful combination of enormously talented people . . . [and] the final project was larger than all the people." (Austin Chronicle, March 11, 1994)
Jerry Retzloff was born in San Antonio, Texas, on January 4, 1940 to Walter (Red) and Celia Retzloff. He was raised on the Southeast side of town, proudly attending Central Catholic High School. Upon graduation, Jerry decided to join the U.S. Coast Guard and was stationed in San Francisco, California. He enjoyed the USCG and often spoke pridefully of being the only coasty to have never gotten seasick on his ship despite numerous significant storms on his watch. During one storm, he wagered everyone their once-a-week ration of steak that he would not get seasick – he won the bet and ate steaks daily for over a month.
Upon returning from the USCG, he came back to San Antonio and joined Lone Star Brewery in 1963. He loved his job at Lone Star Beer, working on the dock, the accounting office, and ultimately ending up in marketing and special promotions. While at Lone Star in his early years, he also earned his bachelor's degree in marketing from St. Mary's University. In the mid 1970s, he became the district manager for Lone Star in Austin, Texas. He worked passionately to grow the brand through the burgeoning Austin music scene. Jerry identified with the younger crowd and made connections quickly - enjoying music, meeting people, building relationships and promoting the "National Beer of Texas". He developed many bonds with musicians from the area including Kinky Friedman, Red Stegall, Charlie Daniels, and, among others, his lifelong friend, Willie Nelson.
Jerry originated the concept of calling beer bottles "long necks" and promoted the idea of "Long Live Long Necks". He was especially proud to have been featured in an article for Texas Monthly (2014) entitled "Bottle Rocket" - an amazing article on how Jerry built the Lone Star brand through music, unique promotions and his travels from Austin to Nashville to Hollywood. To cap his legendary career in the beer/music business, a phenomenal exhibit was created in his honor at Texas State University's Wittliff Collections.
After retiring with 34 years at Lone Star Beer, Jerry pursued his hobby of fishing and telling stories on frequent trips to the Rockport area. He also served in the hospital ministry at the downtown Baptist Hospital for 26 years. Having built a vast network of friends over the years, he genuinely enjoyed people, had a servant's heart, was kind to all and never encountered a stranger. His trademark phrase of "Not to Worry" stuck with him until the end. He passed away March 10, 2020.
[From obituary, March 2020]
Born in San Antonio, Texas in 1941, acclaimed filmmaker Severo Perez earned his B.A. in American Literature and Contemporary History from the University of Texas. Perez moved to Los Angeles in 1972 to pursue a career in the motion picture industry. His productions have won more than 50 awards, including three CINE Golden Eagles. Perez is also an accomplished playwright and novelist.
Perez began working in theater in 1974, teaming up with legendary actress Carmen Zapata to translate and adapt the Mexican play Los desarraigados (Uprooted) for American audiences. Later, Perez became playwright-in-residence at El Teatro Campesino, where he wrote Soldierboy with his wife, Judith Perez. That play is based on Perez's own personal story in San Antonio as the son of a returning U.S. soldier after World War II. Soldierboy has been staged around the country and appears in the 1989 anthology Necessary Theater: Six Plays About the Chicano Experience. Perez's credits as a dramatist also include Speaking of Cats, inspired by Tejana activist Emma Tenayuca and the 1938 pecan shellers strike in San Antonio.
Perez's 1995 film, …and the earth did not swallow him, is adapted from Tomás Rivera's classic 1971 Chicano novel, …y no se lo tragó la tierra, and follows the lives of a South Texas family of migrant farmworkers in the 1950s. Perez's nuanced, powerful film beautifully evokes the substance and spirit of Rivera's work, and it has won international critical acclaim, including top honors at film festivals worldwide. Some of these honors include the Gold Medal at the 12th Annual Television Movie Awards in 1997, Jury Award at Vina del Mar (Chile) International Film Festival in 1996, Sol Award CineSol at the 1995 Latino Film Festival, Best Feature at the San Diego Independent Film Festival in 1994 and the Minneapolis Rivertown Film Festival in 1995, Best of the Fest Audience Award at the Santa Barbara Film Festival in 1994, and Jury Award for Best Director at the Cairo International Film Festival in 1994.
In 1998, Perez finished a documentary, Willa Brown: An American Aviator, about a remarkable woman—a pioneering African American pilot who took to the air in the 1930s and defied Jim Crow laws. Her efforts led to Congress forming the renowned Tuskegee Airmen squadron. The film is currently distributed by Filmakers Library.
Perez's other films include a documentary on artist Carmen Lomas Garza: Carmen Lomas Garza: Looking Back; a family drama about a high school girl's desire to attend college, Dreams of Flying; a documentary about dancer-choreographer Rudy Perez, Countdown: Reflections on a Life in Dance, an adaptation of Mark Twain's The Notorious Jumping Frog of Calaveras County; a feature film on Tejano hero Juan Seguin; a documentary about immigrants in Southern California, There Goes the Neighborhood; an animated film about the history of writing, Astronauts and Jelly Beans; a drama about AIDS for young teens, Between Friends, a documentary about four retired African American men, Elders; as well as short documentaries on a wide range of subjects, including La Raza Unida's 1960s political uprising in Crystal City, Texas. He also negotiated the deal at Universal Studios that allowed Luiz Valdez to direct the film version of Zoot Suit.
In 2012 Perez published his first novel, The Challengers Aero Club, inspired by his documentary on aviator Willa Brown and other pioneering African American pilots in the early 20th century. The book was praised by Kirkus as "an engaging, thorough novel about forgotten heroes of aviation history."
Aubra Nooncaster graduated Sul Ross State College with a Master's in English in 1940. Upon returning from service in World War II, he was hired as head basketball and assistant football coach at Midland High School where he taught for two years. At Midland, Coach Nooncaster was also given an English class to teach that his football players took in anticipation of an easy A. One of these students was Larry L. King, the playwright and author best known for The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas. Nooncaster would become a great influence on Larry L. King's writing career. As early as 1974, King began a lifelong correspondence with Coach Nooncaster.
In 1947, Aubra Nooncaster began to teach at Pampa Independent School District in Pampa, Texas, where he stayed until his retirement in 1978. During his career as a teacher he pursued an enduring love of poetry, ultimately publishing four books of poems: Listen for a Poem, Selected Poems: 1959-1988, Amid the Glow of Suns, and Interim Days: A Book of Poems.
His community, peers, and former students loved and admired Aubra Nooncaster. Many of his former students reconnected with him after reading Larry L. King's article about his time with Nooncaster entitled "A Coach I Can't Forget." The article was published in Parade, a newspaper insert that ran nationwide, on July 17, 1983.
 Journalist and chili enthusiast Wick Fowler (1909-1972) was born Homer Thomas Wilson Fowler in Big Sandy, Texas and grew up in Victoria, Texas.
Fowler began his newspaper career at the Austin American Statesman, then joined the Dallas Morning News, and later became editor of the Midland Reporter Telegram. During World War II he served as the only Texas news correspondent, writing for the Dallas Morning News, and was awarded a Purple Heart after being wounded in Italy with fellow journalist Ernie Pyle. He followed the 36th Infantry Division, which was partially comprised of men from his former National Guard unit.
During the Vietnam War Fowler shipped out to Vietnam as a war correspondent for the Denton Record Chronicle. Again Fowler told the story of Texan soldiers. He returned later to cover the local boys for 15 Texas newspapers, and again with Texas businessman H. Ross Perot in attempts to return prisoners of war.
Fowler helped found the Chili Appreciation Society International and created Wick Fowler's 2-Alarm Chili product, both of which are still active. Both ideas were born of a chili cook-off first held in Terlingua, Texas in 1967, in which Fowler competed against Francis X. Tolbert, a friend and colleague at the Dallas Morning News.
Fowler was also a humorist, writing columns such as the "Towering Texan," "Fowler Fare," and "The World's Fare" from 1947-1968. He brought Wick Fowler's 2-Alarm Chili on his trips to Vietnam, and was called on to cheer the troops in World War II. Fowler also wrote on local issues such as the John F. Kennedy assassination in Dallas in which Texas governor John Connally was injured, crime and safety, and boating.
Sources:
Wood, Sam, "A tribute to Wick Fowler…," Texas State Directory, ca 1973, page 33.
Handbook of Texas Online, Alice M. Shukalo, "Fowler, Homer Thomas Wilson [Wick]," accessed August 18, 2016, http://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/ffo50.
Tamara Saviano was born and raised in Wisconsin but now lives in Nashville, Tennessee, where she has worked as a publicist, music journalist, record and television producer, and artist manager. She has served as president and board member of the Americana Music Association. She also was founder and president of American Roots Publishing, through which she produced the Grammy-award winning CD, Beautiful Dreamer: The Songs of Stephen Foster, as well as the critically-acclaimed album, The Pilgrim: A Celebration of Kris Kristofferson. Saviano is currently a writer, producer and director at Slow Uvalde Films, the production company for Without Getting Killed or Caught: The Life and Music of Guy Clark. Saviano began donating her music archive to the Wittliff Collections in 2007 through the efforts of Dr. Gary Hartman and the Center for Texas Music History at Texas State University.
Guy Clark was a Grammy Award-winning singer, songwriter, and guitarist. He was born November 6, 1941, in Monahans, Texas. Over the course of his career, Guy Clark released more than twenty albums. Many notable artists such as Johnny Cash, Emmylou Harris, Jerry Jeff Walker, Jimmy Buffet, and Rodney Crowell recorded his songs. His last album, My Favorite Picture of You, won the 2014 Grammy Award for Best Folk Album. Guy Clark passed away on May 17, 2016.
Susanna Clark was a songwriter and painter. She was born March 11, 1939 in Atlanta, Texas. In 1969, she met Guy Clark, and the two wed in 1972. Clark wrote "I'll be Your San Antone Rose," among many others. Artists such as Rosanne Cash, Jerry Jeff Walker, David Allen Coe, and Emmylou Harris recorded her songs. Some of her paintings have been used as cover art for albums by Willie Nelson, Emmylou Harris, and her husband, Guy Clark. Susanna Clark passed away on June 27, 2012.
Naomi Shihab Nye, acclaimed poet who also writes essays, songs, novels, and children's books; edits poetry anthologies, and teaches poetry writing to youth and adults, was born in 1952 in St. Louis, Missouri to Aziz Shihab, a journalist and immigrant from Palestine, and Miriam Shihab, a Montessori teacher with a fine arts degree in painting. Nye has won numerous awards, including her first major recognition for Hugging the Jukebox as a National Poetry Series selection in 1982, critical acclaim for her 2011 short story collection There Is No Long Distance Now: Very Short Stories, Best Books for Young Adults several times from the American Library Association, and the gratitude of San Antonio Independent School District teachers for her poetry teaching packets. Nye is a Lannan Fellow, a Guggenheim Fellow, and Poetry Foundation Young People's Poet Laureate for 2019-2021. Nye referred to herself as an "itinerant writer," referring to the twelve years from 1974-1986 she spent teaching poetry in schools around Texas, while also writing and publishing. Nye lists her early influences, starting at age five, as Carl Sandberg, Margaret Wise Brown, Emily Dickinson, William Blake, and Louisa May Alcott. High School and college influences include Henry David Thoreau, Jack Kerouac, Gregory Corso, Gary Snyder, Gertrude Stein, and William Stafford; the last of whom Nye was able to work with, and she became friends with Stafford and his family.
Nye began writing early in life, publishing poetry at age 7 and continuing throughout her childhood. She wrote a column for teens in high school, and while teaching across Texas and the country she continued to write and publish. While teaching children poetry during the Gulf War, which began in 1991, Nye read the students poetry written by Iraqi writers, and ultimately edited This Same Sky: A Collection of Poems from Around the World, which includes 129 poets from 68 countries. Her young adult novel Going Going, 2005, is an attempt to recognize and document her neighborhood in San Antonio, Texas as it changed due to gentrification. This attention to the connection of people across the world, and their local daily realities, imbues Nye's work. For Nye, the best audience is children, and she does not recognize a distinction between adult and children's writing. While writing poetry for adults in the 1970s and 1980s, Nye searched for cross-over texts to use with the young people she was teaching. In the 1990s her editor Virginia Duncan suggested she write for children, which she did with Sitti's Secrets, and continues today. To date, Nye has published audio recordings of songs she wrote and sang; children's books, including picture books, poetry, poetry anthologies, and young adult novels; written and edited poetry for adults; served as a columnist for Organica and poetry editor for The Texas Observer; and contributed to numerous poetry anthologies and periodicals.
Naomi Nye and her family moved to Jerusalem when she was in high school, around 1965, where she met her father's family for the first time. Nye attended a school that instructed in Arabic, Armenian, and English, though she only knew English. After the 6-Day War in 1967, she moved with her parents and brother to San Antonio, Texas, where she still resides. Nye graduated from high school in Texas without ever having attended a football game, and in honor of this accomplishment the football players bought her a mum. Nye attended Trinity University in San Antonio and lived with her parents. She graduated summa cum laude in 1974 with a degree in English and World Religions. In 1978, Nye married Michael Nye, a lawyer-turned-photographer, and in 1986 they had a son, Madison Cloudfeather. After college, Naomi and Michael traveled extensively in Mexico and Central America, which produced many unpublished poems from this time period, and in response to the Mexican American culture in San Antonio but lack of Mexican culture, the anthology The Tree Is Older than You Are: A Bilingual Gathering of Poems and Stories from Mexico with Paintings by Mexican Artists, decades later in 1995. Nye continued her high school work of essayist, writing numerous articles on topics from poetry to politics to housework for various newspapers, served as a columnist for Organica: A Magazine of Art and Activism.
Nye was the most active employee at the Texas Commission on the Arts Writers in the Schools Project, working across Texas and publishing chapbook and poetry. She stopped this work in 1986 when her son was born. Nye also worked as a visiting instructor or writer in residence across US colleges and schools, as well as internationally, including at the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Hawai'i Manoa, the University of Texas at Austin and at San Antonio, and Texas State University in San Marcos.
Nye also contributed to two PBS television series, the "Language of Life" with Bill in 1995, and "The United States of Poetry" in 1996. As a young woman in the late 1970s, Nye wrote songs and played guitar and sang in coffee shops and for schoolchildren. She recorded an album of children's songs, Rutabaga-Roo in 1979, and an album of folk songs, Lullaby Raft in 1981. Nye writes for adults and children, is adept in multiple genres, finds home in her backyard and wherever in the world she travels, and teaches and edits anthologies as well as writes poetry. Similarly, she is both loving and accepting of all people, and a fierce activist for peace and justice.
"Naomi Nye." Gale Literature: Contemporary Authors, Gale, 2020. Gale in Context: Biography, https://link-gale-com.libproxy.txstate.edu/apps/doc/H1000117919/BIC?u=txshracd2550&sid=BIC&xid=28da7104.  Accessed 22 Apr. 2020.
Naomi Nye Papers, The Wittliff Collections, Texas State University.
List of Works
Works For Children
Sitti's Secrets, illustrated by Nancy Carpenter, Four Winds Press (New York, NY), 1994
Benito's Dream Bottle, illustrated by Yu Cha Pak, Simon & Schuster (New York, NY), 1995
Lullaby Raft, illustrated by Vivienne Flesher, Simon & Schuster (New York, NY), 1997.
Habibi (young-adult novel), Simon & Schuster (New York, NY), 1997.
Come with Me: Poems for a Journey, illustrated by Dan Yaccarino, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2000.
Nineteen Varieties of Gazelle: Poems of the Middle East, HarperCollins (New York, NY), 2002.
Baby Radar, illustrated by Nancy Carpenter, HarperCollins (New York, NY), 2003.
A Maze Me: Poems for Girls, illustrated by Terre Maher, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2005.
Going Going (young-adult novel), Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2005.
Honeybee: Poems and Short Prose, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2008.
The Turtle of Oman (novel), illustrated by Betsy Peterschmidt, Greenwillow Books, an imprint of Harper Collins Publishers (New York, NY), 2014.
Works For Children; Editor
This Same Sky: A Collection of Poems from Around the World, Four Winds Press (New York, NY), 1992.
The Tree Is Older than You Are: A Bilingual Gathering of Poems and Stories from Mexico with Paintings by Mexican Artists, Simon & Schuster (New York, NY), 1995.
(With Paul B. Janeczko) I Feel a Little Jumpy around You: A Book of Her Poems and His Poems Collected in Pairs, Simon & Schuster (New York, NY), 1996.
The Space between Our Footsteps: Poems and Paintings from the Middle East, Simon & Schuster (New York, NY), 1998, published as The Flag of Childhood: Poems from the Middle East, Aladdin Paperbacks (New York, NY), 2002.
What Have You Lost?, photographs by husband, Michael Nye, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 1999.
Salting the Ocean: One Hundred Poems by Young Poets, illustrated by Ashley Bryan, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2000.
Is This Forever, or What? Poems and Paintings from Texas, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2004.
Works For Adults
Tattooed Feet, Texas Portfolio (Texas City, TX), 1977.
Eye-to-Eye, Texas Portfolio (Texas City, TX), 1978.
Different Ways to Pray, Breitenbush Publications (Portland, OR), 1980.
On the Edge of the Sky, Iguana (Madison, WI), 1981.
Hugging the Jukebox, Dutton (New York, NY), 1982.
Yellow Glove, Breitenbush Books (Portland, OR), 1986.
Invisible, Trilobite Press (Denton, TX), 1987.
(Translator of poetry, with Salma Khadra Jayyusi) Fadwa Tuqan, A Mountainous Journey: An Autobiography, translated by Olive Kenny, edited by Jayyusi, Graywolf Press (St. Paul, MN), 1990.
(Translator, with May Jayyusi) Muhammad al-Maghut, The Fan of Swords: Poems, edited and introduced by Salma Khadra Jayyusi, Three Continents Press (Washington, DC), 1991.
Mint, State Street Press (Brockport, NY), 1991.
Travel Alarm, Wings Press (San Antonio, TX), 1992.
Red Suitcase, BOA Editions (Brockport, NY), 199.
Words under the Words: Selected Poems, Far Corner Books/Eighth Mountain Press (Portland, OR), 1995.
Fuel, BOA Editions (Rochester, NY), 1998.
Mint Snowball, Anhinga Press (Tallahassee, FL), 2001.
You and Yours, BOA Editions (Rochester, NY), 2005.
(Editor) Between Heaven and Texas, University of Texas Press (Austin, TX), 2006.
Tender Spot, Bloodaxe Books (Northumberland, England), 2008.
(Selector) Time You Let Me In: 25 Poets under 25, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2010.
Transfer: Poems, BOA Editions (Rochester, NY), 2011.
Famous: Poem, illustrated by Lisa Desimini, Wings Press (San Antonio, TX), 2015.
Voices in the Air: Poems for Listeners, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2018.
Cast Away: Poems for Our Time, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2019.
The Tiny Journalist: Poems, BOA Editions (Rochester, NY), 2019.
Everything Comes Next: Collected and New Poems, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2020.
Recordings
Rutabaga-Roo: I've Got a Song and It's for You (children's songs), Flying Cat (San Antonio, TX), 1979.
Lullaby Raft (folk songs), Flying Cat (San Antonio, TX), 1981.
The Spoken Page (poetry), International Poetry Forum, 1988.
The Poet and the Poem, Library of Congress Archive of Recorded Poetry and Literature (Washington, DC), 2000.
Other
Never in a Hurry: Essays on People and Places, University of South Carolina Press (Columbia, SC), 1996.
I'll Ask You Three Times, Are You OK? Tales of Driving and Being Driven, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2007. (Author of foreword) Cary Clack, Clowns and Rats Scare Me: Columns, Trinity University Press (San Antonio, TX), 2009.
There Is No Long Distance Now: Very Short Stories, Greenwillow Books (New York, NY), 2011.
With Christopher Omelas), Name Them--They Fly Better: Pat Hammond's Theory of Aerodynamics, Maverick Books, an imprint of Trinity University Press (San Antonio, Texas), 2017.
Contributor, including
What You Wish for: Stories and Poems for Darfur, edited by Alexander McCall Smith, G.P. Putnam's Sons (New York, NY), 2011.
Columnist for Organica
Columnist for Texas Observer
Poetry in America: Favorite Poems, Library of Congress Archive of Recorded Poetry and Literature (Washington, DC), 2000.
Clarence Samuel Kindrick (November 3, 1934 -) is a Texas journalist, author and publisher. The longtime newspaper reporter and columnist is best known as the founder of Action Magazine in March 1975 and for his wild and wooly chronicling of the outlaw country music movement of the 1970s from his home base of San Antonio and Bulverde.
Kindrick was born in San Antonio and grew up in a religious household in Junction. He graduated from Junction High School in 1953 and graduated from Southwest Texas State University in 1957.
After short stints at the Bay City News and the Kerrville Daily Times, Kindrick joined the San Angelo Standard Times in 1958 as a general assignments reporter. In 1960, he was hired by the San Antonio Express-News where he worked as a reporter and columnist until 1975.
Kindrick forged close bonds with Willie Nelson, Clarence "Gatemouth" Brown, Kinky Friedman, Hondo Crouch and Jerry Jeff Walker, adopted their redneck rock attitude, look and partying ways. His outrageous gonzo style of reporting made him the Hunter S. Thompson of the emerging music scene.
Ron Young was the founder and publisher of the pioneering indie music newspaper It's Only Rock 'N' Roll. The longtime music journalist, songwriter and musician grew up in San Antonio, where he graduated from Robert E. Lee High School. He studied journalism at the University of Texas at Austin. Young was an avid record collector and in the 1970s was a columnist and music critic at the daily newspaper San Antonio Light, and later a regular contributor to the San Antonio Express-News. The easygoing writer once described himself as the Bob Newhart of rock and roll. Young later moved to Nashville, Tennessee and became a published songwriter. He died in San Antonio from complications of cancer on May 11, 2017. He was 67.
Maury Maverick Jr. (1921-2003) was a member of the prominent San Antonio Maverick family who traces their lineage back to the Texas Revolution. Throughout his life, Maverick worked as a lawyer, politician, and activist. He served in the Marine Corps during World War II after which he got his law degree. In 1950, following in his father's footsteps, he was elected as a Democrat to the Texas House of Representatives where he supported workers rights and civil rights. He also opposed the persecution of suspected communists during the Red Scare.
In the 1960s, Maverick left his political career and went to work for the American Civil Liberties Union where he represented civil rights activists, communists, and those opposing the Vietnam War. He left his legal career in 1980 and became a columnist for the San Antonio Express News where he continued to write in support of civil rights and worker's rights. He faced backlash later in his career from the Jewish community in Texas for his support of Palestine in the Palestinian and Israeli conflict. This collection mainly consists of documents from this time in his life forward. He stayed with the San Antonio Express News until his death in 2003. His last column was a condemnation of the Iraq War. He is remembered for his activism, and a San Antonio library was built in his honor.
Frank Waters was born in Colorado Springs, Colorado on July 25, 1902. He felt a deep connection with the geographic area known as the American Southwest that could be seen in many of his writings. His works were inspired by this deep connection of this geographic area in addition to many other topics and themes related to the American Southwest. Over the course of his lifetime, Waters wrote and published over 25 books, in addition to other works, beginning early on his life, when his short story "How It Was Settled" was first published in 1916 when Waters was fourteen. While Waters wrote many influential books and other written works, he is probably best known for his book The Man Who Killed the Deer, which was published in 1942.
Waters spent most of his life in New Mexico, particularly in Arroyo Seco, where he moved to after working for the office of Inter-American Affairs in Washington D.C. in the early 1940s. In addition to his writings, Waters was also the editor of El Crepusculo, a Spanish-English newspaper that operates out of Taos, New Mexico from 1949 to 1951 and book reviewer for the Saturday Review of Literature from 1950 to 1956. In 1992, the Frank Waters Foundation was established in his name with the idea of encouraging literary and artistic advancement in the spirit of Frank Waters and for the American Southwest. Much of the Frank Waters Papers is related to the efforts of this organization. Waters died at the age of 92 in Arroyo Seco, New Mexico on June 3,1995.
Ramón Hernández (1940-) became an authority on Tejano music through his work as a journalist, photographer, publicist, collector, and musicologist. Hernández was born on the West Side of San Antonio. He grew up loving music, and during his teenage years he formed a band with some classmates, but soon realized that his skills were better suited behind the scenes (the band later became The Monsanto Band). After he graduated from San Antonio's Brackenridge High School in 1960, he joined the U.S. Navy, where he became a naval intelligence officer and learned to speak five languages. It was during his military career that he found his interest as a photographer and writer. By 1968, while still in the Navy, he was freelancing as a photographer on the sets of the popular The Lawrence Welk Show and The Andy Williams Show. In 1983, he retired from the military and returned to San Antonio.
In 1985, Hernández was hired by the San Antonio Express-News to write about the local Tejano and conjunto scene. He soon began writing for other publications, including Full Tilt Boogie, La Prensa de San Antonio, and Billboard Magazine. There are many of his drafts as well as published articles in the collection.
At the same time, he started doing publicity and photography for many of the musicians he wrote about. His clients included some of the most popular names in Tejano music: Selena, Little Joe Hernandez, Patsy Torres, Los Desporadoz, Emilio Navaira, Ram Herrera, among many others. He also collected artifacts and ephemera from the early days of Tejano, conjunto, and orquesta music, preserving material from such influential artists as Lydia Mendoza, Isidro "El Indio" Lopez, Rosita Fernandez, Juan Gaytan, Narciso Martinez, and Beto Villa.
By 1990, his collection became known as the Hispanic Entertainment Archive and Research Center. Hernández wanted to create a museum that honored the legacy of Hispanics in all areas of entertainment. That goal never materialized; however, he loaned out many items from his collection for display at events and at museums including the Bob Bullock Museum, Institute of Texan Culture, and in 2017, at The Wittliff Collections with the exhibit "The Legends of Tejano Music - Highlights from the Ramón Hernández Collection."
Hernández's desire to promote Hispanic entertainers can also be seen in his 1990 creation of the National Hispanic Entertainment Directory, a massive undertaking where he published the contact information of bands, vocalists, venues, record labels, record stores, and most areas of the Tejano music industry. There are quite a few records related to this venture in the collection.
During the 1990s through the early 2000s, Hernández also worked as a publicist and promoter for many of the prominent Tejano record labels including Hacienda, CARA, and Tejano Discos (Little Joe Hernandez's label). Hernández continues to be a prolific writer with regular columns in Street Talk and online blogs. He published his first book The Latinaires, La Familia, Little Joe y más, in 2020. He lives in San Antonio with his wife, Martha.
Sergio Troncoso (1961-) was born to Mexican immigrants in the Ysleta neighborhood of El Paso, Texas. The family lived in a colonia near the border in a house that Troncoso's parents built, but without electricity or running water for their first two years in Ysleta.
His family had a long history of writing and storytelling. Troncoso's paternal grandfather, Santiago Troncoso, was the editor and publisher of El Dia, the first daily newspaper in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. Santiago was arrested multiple times, and even had his office firebombed several times, for reporting on government corruption. Sergio's maternal grandmother, Dolores Rivero, was a gifted oral storyteller who would tell him stories of being a teenager during the Mexican Revolution.
From an early age, Troncoso loved reading. On weekends he would often ride his bike the 15 miles to El Paso Public Library to check out books for the week. Troncoso attended Ysleta High School, and following in his grandfather's footsteps, he became the editor of the high school newspaper, the Pow Wow (full issues can be found in the collection).
In 1979, Troncoso began his studies at Harvard College, which he describes as a complete cultural and linguistic shock. It was there that Troncoso became profoundly aware of his Mexican roots in a way that hadn't been possible in El Paso. As he puts it in a 2004 profile in the Houston Chronicle, "Suddenly I was brown against this white background." After never feeling like a minority in El Paso, he used this new outsider status to delve into Latin American and Mexican history. In 1983, he graduated magma cum laude with a degree in Government, with a Latin American Certificate. After he graduated, he received a Fulbright Scholarship to Mexico where he studied economics, politics, and literature.
From 1985-1992, Troncoso earned graduate degrees in International Relations and in Philosophy from Yale University, where his interests included questions of the self, philosophy and psychology, and philosophy in literature. But before he earned his doctorate, he realized that his academic work was isolating, and that while he couldn't necessarily discuss the details of what he was learning with his family, he could tell stories. His first published short story "The Abuelita" (1987), was a fictionalized account of the intersection of the knowledge that he was learning at Yale with the people and places of Ysleta. This exploration of deep philosophical questions in a border setting is a theme that runs throughout his career.
Troncoso's first book of collected work, The Last Tortilla and Other Stories (1999) was published by University of Arizona Press, and includes "The Abuelita." It won the Premio Aztlán Literary Prize for the best book by a new Chicano writer, and also the Southwest Book Award from the Border Regional Library Association.
Troncoso's debut novel, The Nature of Truth (2003), was first published by Northwestern University Press and later revised and re-released in 2014 by Arte Público. In this philosophical thriller, a Yale graduate student finds out that his boss, an internationally renowned German professor, is hiding a Nazi past.
Crossing Borders: Personal Essays (2011) contains sixteen autobiographical essays, exploring how Troncoso navigates a life full of literal and metaphorical borders. It won the Bronze Award for Essays from ForeWord Reviews, and Second Place for Best Biography in English in the International Latino Book Awards.
From This Wicked Patch of Dust (2011) is a novel that chronicles the lives of the Ysleta-based Martinez family over the span of forty years. It won multiple awards and was named as one of the best books of the year by Kirkus Reviews, and was shortlisted as runner-up for the biannual PEN/Texas Southwest Book Award for Fiction.
On July 29, 2014, the El Paso City Council voted unanimously to rename the Ysleta public library branch in honor of Troncoso. At the dedication ceremony, he announced the creation of the annual Troncoso Reading Prizes to encourage students in the Ysleta area to read.
In 2019, Troncoso published a collection of linked short stories on immigration, A Peculiar Kind of Immigrant's Son (Cinco Puntos Press) to critical acclaim. In 2020, it won First Place in the category of Best Collection of Short Stories (English/Bilingual) at the International Latino Book Awards.
In 2020, Troncoso was elected President of the Texas Institute of Letters. Other honors include being inducted into the Hispanic Scholarship Fund's Hall of Fame as well as serving as a judge for multiple literary awards such as the PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction. As of 2020, Troncoso lives in New York City with his wife Laura and their two sons. He teaches writing at Yale Writers' Workshop.
Ralph B. Sipper and Carol Sipper established Joseph The Provider/Books, an internationally known rare-book firm in 1970. Since 1996 he has been conducting business under his own name. He is a member of the Antiquarian Booksellers Association of America and has served on that organization's board of governors.
In 1970, Larry McMurtry founded Booked Up in Washington, D.C., and the two bookmen developed a long friendship over their mutual interests. In his 2021 obituary for McMurtry, Sipper recounts that over 50 years, "Larry and I discussed books on a professional level or swapped stories about our colleagues." They occasionally met in person, but primarily communicated via letters.
Western historian and author of over 20 books, Dale Watson served as Director of the Western Press at The University of El Paso for nearly 30 years. He was also a friend and chess opponent of Cormac McCarthy.
Texas Monthly magazine was founded in 1972 by its publisher, Michael R. Levy, a 26 year-old native Dallasite who was "convinced that my state was ready for a really first class magazine that will appeal directly to the sophisticated, cosmopolitan folks that Texans have become." (Texas Monthly, Feb. 1973). Levy brought aboard 27 year-old William Broyles, Jr. as editor. Broyles assembled an editorial staff that was short on journalistic experience but imbued with curiousity, intelligence, irreverence, and literary skills. Many of Texas Monthly's early staffers were friends of Broyles from Rice University, where the intellectual climate helped set the tone for the magazine. As Broyles later wrote, "If any one quality unites these farflung efforts, it is a boundless curiosity. Most of our stories began with one of us saying "I wonder..." (The Best of Texas Monthly: The First Five Years.)
Texas Monthly's first issue was published in February 1973, and it was not an immediate commercial success, selling only about 35,000 copies. But the magazine quickly gained recognition for offering a significant departure from the rest of the state's media. Texas Monthly contained intelligent and entertaining examinations of Texas life ranging from politics, culture, art, sports, personalities, lifestyles, the environment, fashion, crime, business, education, entertainment, and travel. Along the way, the magazine began to define how Texas was emerging as a contemporary urban state while still clinging to its rural mythic past.
From its beginnings, Texas Monthly developed a reputation as a "writer's magazine," and it helped develop new generations of writing talent while also offering a welcome forum for established voices. Texas Monthly hired many young writers as full-time staff members with benefits, creating a community of professional writers centered near the magazine's home base in Austin.
In 1974, after only one year of existence, the editorial staff's efforts were rewarded with a National Magazine Award (the industry equivalent of the Pulitzer Prize) for Specialized Journalism. Since then Texas Monthly has established a solid reputation for editorial excellence, winning eight National Magazine Awards and 38 nominations- a record surpassed by only The New Yorker, The Atlantic Monthly, Harper's and Esquire.
Over the next several decades, Texas Monthly has evolved and changed under new editorships and owners, but it remains the "National Magazine of Texas," chronically life in the Lone Star State, exploring its politics and personalities, barbecue and business, true crime and tacos, honky-tonks and hiking.
Beverly Lowry was born August 10, 1938, in Memphis, Tennessee, and moved with her family at age six to Greenville, Mississippi. She attended the University of Mississippi (1956-58) and graduated with a B.A. from Memphis State University in 1960. She married Glenn Lowry in June 1960, and moved with him to Manhattan. There, she pursued acting and experimented in writing. After relocating to Houston in 1965, and sending the younger of her two sons to nursery school Lowry began to write stories, some of which blossomed into novels. Lowry began teaching fiction writing as an associate professor at the University of Houston in 1976, while also pursuing acting, and serving on boards for the Cultural Arts Council of Houston, and for Houston Festival. Her fiction writing has typically been set in Texas and Mississippi. Her first two novels, Come Back, Lolly Ray and Emma Blue were both set in Eunola, Mississippi a fictional town much like her hometown of Greenville. Her next three novels and one work of non-fiction were set in Texas, with her most recent novel, The Track of Real Desires, being again set in the fictional Eunola, Mississippi.
The Lowrys lived just outside San Marcos along the San Marcos River from 1981-1991. One of the Lowrys' two sons, Peter, died in a hit-and-run accident on the highway from San Marcos to their home in 1984. This experience and other personal losses in the early 1980s "caused a marked change in the tone of Lowry's fiction. Gone is her unqualified faith in the future; present is a new preoccupation with fate or chance, even a hint that felicity may invite disaster," (Contemporary Southern Writers, St. James Press, 1999). These themes of isolation and alienation appear in The Perfect Sonya (1987), The Track of Real Desires (1994), and clearly in Crossed Over: A Murder, A Memoir (1992). Beginning in 1989, Lowry approached and visited convicted pickaxe murderer Karla Faye Tucker, on death row in Hunstville, Texas. Crossed Over relates the story of Karla Faye Tucker as well as some of Lowry's own personal story, resulting in "far more than the usual true-crime tale. Lowry interwove the story of her own troubled son with a chilling account of Tucker's dangerously out-of-control life to achieve an understanding of the human being behind an ostensibly inhuman act; her leap of imagination and empathy enabled her, at last, to make peace with Peter's death," (Texas Monthly, Feb. 2001). Lowry moved to Los Angeles in the early 1990s, and currently teaches at George Mason University, in Virginia. She continues to write essays and non-fiction, and has been working on a biography of Madame C. J. Walker, the first African-American woman to become a self-made millionaire.
John Emil Sepich is a historian and scholar of Cormac McCarthy. He is author of Notes on Blood Meridian.
Austin-based author and journalist Mike Cox began donating his papers to the Southwestern Writers Collection/The Wittliff Collections in 1993.
Inducted into the Texas Institute of Letters in 1993, Cox is the author of 22 non-fiction books and hundreds of articles, essays and newspaper columns. A native of Amarillo who grew up in Austin, he sold his first magazine story to The Cattleman in 1964 and has been writing professionally ever since.
In addition to his other writing, for more than 30 years he reviewed Texas-related books for the Austin American-Statesman. In 2010, he received the A.C. Green Lifetime Achievement Award. Over the years, his work has earned numerous other recognitions. His most noted work is a two-volume, quarter-million-word history of the Texas Rangers published in 2008-2009. In 2014, his book Cowboy Stuntman was one of two finalists for a Western Writers of America Golden Spur Award. The same book also was nominated to receive a Will Rogers Medallion from the Texas Cowboy Hall of Fame. Cox lives in Austin and continues to write.
John T. Davis is a prolific writer who has covered the music, personalities and culture of Texas and the Southwest for a variety of regional, state and national publications. His byline has appeared in the Austin American-Statesman, the Austin Chronicle, Texas Monthly, Texas Highways, San Antonio magazine, Men's Journal, No Depression, Billboard and Newsday and the website Culturemap.com. He is also a frequent contributor to Austin Monthly, Austin Woman and other regional publications and websites. He has been interviewed by VH-1, CMT and NPR and has appeared in the documentary film Lubbock Lights.
He is the author of the book Austin City Limits: 25 Years of American Music and has assisted in the preparation and editing of several other volumes, including biographies of musicians Jerry Jeff Walker and Johnny Bush, and a travel guide to Texas.
In 2011, he co-authored Thin Slice of Life, a mystery novel published in 2012 by Stephen F. Austin University Press. He and his co-authors (writing as "Miles Arceneaux") published a sequel, La Salle's Ghost, in October 2013, followed by a third volume, Ransom Island, in 2014, North Beach, in 2015, and the latest addition to the series, Hidden Sea, in 2017.
In 2014, his biography of the musical group The Flatlanders was published by University of Texas Press. In 2016, he contributed a chapter to the Texas A and M Press anthology, Pickers and Poets: The Ruthlessly Poetic Singer-Songwriters of Texas. During 2017-2018, he served as the editor of the online newsletter for the Texas Dance Hall Preservation non-profit.
[From Author's website]
Michael Frederick is a photographer in Central Texas.
Jane Sumner is an award-winning journalist best known for her film writing in the pages of the Dallas Morning News.
Miles Wilson was the founding director of the MFA program in creative writing at Texas State University, where he is Distinguished Professor Emeritus. He is the author of three prize-winning books: Fire Season (2014), Harm (2003), and Line of Fall (1989.) His newest book, Woodswork: New and Selected Stories of the American West, is forthcoming in 2018 from the University of New Mexico Press.
Wilson served three fire seasons (1964, 1965, 1967) as a member of the Dalton Hotshots, a U.S. Forest Service Interregional Fire Crew based on the Angeles National Forest in California. While serving with the Dalton Hotshots, Wilson received a Bachelors degree in English at Pomona College and a Masters of Fine Arts in Creative Writing at the University of Oregon.
He is the recipient of numerous awards for his previous publications, including the John Simmons Short Fiction Award from the University of Iowa Press for Line of Fall and the Violet Crown Book Award from the Writer's League of Texas/Barnes & Noble for Harm. He has held fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the Christopher Isherwood Foundation. Wilson currently divides his time between San Marcos, Texas and his native Oregon.
A scholar noted for his writing on the literature of the American West, Mark Busby the author and editor of several books, as well as a novelist (Fort Benning Blues and Cedar Crossing) and the co-editor of the journals Southwestern American Literature and Texas Books in Review. Busby is a professor of English at Texas State University, where he directs the Center for the Study of the Southwest and the Southwest Regional Humanities Center. Busby is also a past president of the Texas Institute of Letters.
Busby's books include John Graves, Writer (co-editor, 2007), The Southwest: The Greenwood Encyclopedia of American Regional Cultures (editor, 2004), From Texas to the World and Back: Essays on the Journeys of Katherine Anne Porter (co-editor, 2001), Fort Benning Blues: A Novel (2001), Larry McMurtry and the West: An Ambivalent Relationship (1995), New Growth 2: Contemporary Short Stories by Texas Writers (editor, 1993), United States Authors Series-Ralph Ellison (1991), The Frontier Experience and the American Dream: Essays on American Literature (co-editor 1989), Lanford Wilson (Western Writers Series, 1987), Preston Jones (Western Writers Series, 1983).
Mark Busby began donating his papers to the Southwestern Writers Collection/The Wittliff Collections in 1991.
Ann Weisgarber lives in Galveston, Texas and is the author of several novels. Her first, The Personal History of Rachel DuPree, is set in the South Dakota Badlands in 1917. It was nominated for England's 2009 Orange Prize and for the 2009 Orange Award for New Writers. In the United States, The Personal History of Rachel DuPree won the Stephen Turner Award for New Fiction and the Langum Prize for American Historical Fiction. JuVee Productions has optioned the film rights and Viola Davis will play Rachel DuPree. Filming is scheduled for 2018.
Weisgarber's second novel, The Promise, takes place in 1900 on Galveston Island at the time of America's deadliest natural disaster. It was shortlisted for the United Kingdom's Walter Scott Prize for Historical Fiction, was the finalist for the Spur Award for Best Western Historical Fiction, and was a finalist for the Ohioana Book Award for Fiction. Her third book to date, The Glovemaker, was published in 2018 and is set in Utah's deep canyon country during the winter of 1888.
Weisgarber's archive preserves many aspects of her writing career: her early works including poetry and short stories, interviews, manuscript drafts, research materials, correspondence with editors, agents, and readers, reviews and publicity material, foreign editions and artifacts. Also present are materials from her tenure as the artist-in-residence at Badlands National Park while she was working on The Personal History of Rachel Dupree.
Weisgarber was born and raised in Ohio and graduated from Wright State University in Dayton with a Bachelor of Arts in Social Work. She earned a Master of Arts in Sociology from the University of Houston and became a social worker in psychiatric and nursing home facilities and also taught sociology at Wharton County Junior College in Texas.
Acclaimed playwright Celeste Bedford Walker is the author of over twenty plays that have received numerous accolades including national awards and productions. She has received the August Wilson Playwriting Award, multiple NAACP Image Awards, New York's AUDELCO Award, and she was a finalist for the Susan Smith Blackburn Prize. The New York Times has praised her plays as "forceful, well-crafted" and "vigorous social satire" and "an uproariously good time." Dramalogue has described her work as "practically flawless." Her play Camp Logan has been performed at major venues around the country, including the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C., where the Washington Post lauded her as "a textbook example of how to simultaneously entertain and educate an audience."
In a career that has spanned almost half a century, Benson has established himself as the modern king of Western Swing by being the driving force behind Asleep at the Wheel. In 1970 the Philadelphia-born Benson co-founded the band in Paw Paw, West Virginia along with Lucky Oceans and Leroy Preston. The band relocated to the Bay Area in 1971 upon the urging of musician Commander Cody, whose own band The Lost Planet Airmen was gaining prominence on the West Coast. Asleep at the Wheel quickly attracted fans, one of which was legendary rock and soul artist, Van Morrison. Soon after Morrison mentioned the band in an interview with Rolling Stone magazine, Asleep at the Wheel were offered a record contract by United Artists, and in 1973 their first album "Comin' Right At Ya" was released.
Not long after that, the "cosmic cowboys" of Texas came calling, and on the advice of artists like Willie Nelson and Doug Sahm, Benson moved the band to Austin. The rest, as they say, is history.
Benson's honors include 2011 Texan of the Year, 2011 Texas Medal of the Arts Award for Multimedia, the 2009 Lifetime Achievement Award from the Americana Music Association, the 2008 TEC Les Paul Award, and the official Texas State Musician in 2004. He's also an actor, writer and voice-over talent. A much sought after producer, he has worked with such artists as Willie Nelson, Aaron Neville, Aaron Watson and Suzy Bogguss, to name a few. Since 2010 Benson has hosted the highly successful "Texas Music Scene" television series which broadcasts weekly all across the country, showcasing live performances by today's talent in the Texas and Red Dirt music circuit. Benson has also hosted the radio show "Austin Outer Limits" on Sirius/XM's "Willie's Roadhouse" channel.
Charles Barsotti was born in San Marcos, Texas in 1933 and grew up in San Antonio. He graduated from Texas State University in 1955 before serviing in the Army. He later worked at the Brown School in San Marcos, a residential treatment center for people with special needs while studying with the aim of obtaining a master's degree in education.
Barsotti was the cartoon editor of The Saturday Evening Post and a staff cartoonist at The New Yorker beginning in 1970. His work also appeared in Playboy, Punch and Fast Company, among other publications. In 1992, his dog character was adopted as a logo by the office supplies company Niceday Ltd, which was taken over the French company Guilbert, leading to the nickname "Niceday pup" in the United Kingdom
Barsotti died of brain cancer on June 16, 2014, at his home in Kansas City, Missouri, aged 80.
Asa E. "Ace" Reid was the creator of the cartoon Cowpokes and a Western humorist. Cowpokes, at one time, ran in over 400 weekly newspapers across the United States. He produced many popular cartoon books and calendars during his lifetime.
He was born parents Asa E. Reid, Sr. and Callie Miles Bishopon ,Lelia Lake, Texas . Shortly after his birth, the family moved to Electra, on March 10, 1925. He grew up ranching and cowboying.
During World War II, he served as a machinist's mate in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific aboard the USS Lanier. Cowpokes was born on board the Lanier; "The Sorry Salt" was a cartoon he drew for the ship's newspaper. After the war, "The Sorry Salt" became "Jake", his primary character.
On September 11, 1949, in Dallas, he married Madge Parmley, and they moved to Kerrville, Texas, in 1952. Ace's first cartoon appeared in West Texas Livestock Weekly that same year. Two years later, their son and only child, Stan, was born. Ace and Madge were living in Kerrville at the time of his death on November 10, 1991. Madge still lives in Kerrville and has kept Cowpokes going since Ace's death.
James McMurtry was born March 18, 1962, in Fort Worth, Texas and raised in Leesburg, Virginia. He began writing songs during his teens, occasionally performing them in Tucson, while attending the University of Arizona where he studied English and Spanish. He returned to Texas soon after, and made his Kerrville Folk Festival debut in 1987. Around this time, John Mellencamp was starring in a film written by McMurtry's father, Larry McMurtry, and after hearing James' demo tape, signed on to produce his first album, Too Long in the Wasteland (1989), which achieved critical success. Later albums include Candyland (1992); Where'd You Hide the Body (1995); Walk Between the Raindrops (1998); Saint Mary's Wood (2002); Live in Aught-Three (2004); Childish Things (2005); Just Us Kids (2008); Complicated Game (2015); and The Hourses and the Hounds (2021).
Drummer Ernie Durawa was born in San Antonio and has performed on Grammy Award-winning recordings. He is perhaps best known for his work with the Texas Tornados (Freddy Fender, Flaco Jimenez, Augie Meyers, Doug Sahm.) In addition to his work with the Texas Tornados, Ernie Durawa has played with a number of prominent musicians: Willie Nelson, Townes Van Zandt, Delbert McClinton, Merle Haggard, Johnny Bush, Maryann Price, Floyd Domino, Doug Sahm, Flaco Jimenez, and many more.
Singer-songwriter Charlie Robison was born September 1, 1964, in Houston and raised on his family's ranch in Bandera, Texas. By age 15, Robison began writing his own material, and eventually performed in Austin bands Chaparral and Two Hoots and a Holler, as well as the Millionaire Playboys. Robison attended then-Southwest Texas State University and played football until an injury ended his career. He moved to Austin and made his solo debut in 1995 with "Bandera." "Life of the Party" followed in 1998. In 2000, he teamed up with his brother, Bruce, and fellow Texan, Jack Ingram, and released "Unleashed Live." "Step Right Up," his second studio album, was issued in spring 2001. "Good Times" (2004) "Beautiful Day"(2009) and "High Life" (2013) followed, as well as two live albums: "Live" (2003), and "Live at Billy Bob's Texas" (2013). In 2018, Robison retired from performing due to complications from surgery. He and ex-wife, Emily Erwin of The Chicks, have 3 children together.
Russell Lee was born on July 21, 1903, in Ottawa, Illinois. His parents' divorce, the death of his mother, and supervision by three successive guardians created an unsettled childhood for Lee. In 1917 he was sent to Culver Military Academy (CMA), which provided some stability in his life. He attended CMA until 1921, then enrolled at Lehigh University, in Pennsylvania. He graduated in 1925 with a degree in chemical engineering and joined the Certainteed Products Company in Marseilles, Illinois.
In 1927 he married painter Doris Emrick. The following year, Lee was transferred to Kansas City, where he became so bored with his job he resigned to pursue painting. After moving to San Francisco in 1929, the Lees resettled a year later in an artists colony in Woodstock, New York. Lee subsequently became increasingly frustrated with his limitations as a painter. In 1935, at the suggestion of a friend, he bought his first camera and his enthusiasm for photography quickly grew. He explored the technical aspects of the craft, experimenting with developing chemicals, exposure speeds, and flash photography techniques.
Lee began taking documentary photographs in Woodstock in 1935 and went to Pennsylvania to photograph bootleg coal miners. The winter of 1935 found him in New York City documenting the poor and their living conditions. Shortly after, he acquired an agent and began selling his work to magazines. In 1936, Lee joined the photographic staff of the Resettlement Administration, later renamed the Farm Security Administration (FSA), where he worked under the creative supervision of Roy Stryker, director of photographic projects. His colleagues included Dorothea Lange, Arthur Rothstein, Walker Evans, and Carl Mydans. During his FSA years, Lee traveled throughout the United States, documenting life in rural and urban communities. He developed a flash technique that enabled him to take innovative and candid interior photographs. He also specialized in taking pictures in series, most notably those shot in Pie Town, New Mexico, and San Augustine, Texas.
The long periods away from his wife while working for the FSA contributed to their divorce in 1938. On assignment in New Orleans the same year, he met Jean Smith, a Dallas journalist. They began working together and eventually married.
In 1943, Lee received a captain's commission in the Air Transport Command (ATC). He traveled military transport routes taking aerial photographs, visiting the West Indies, North Africa, India, and China. Lee was promoted to major and received the Air Medal.
About a year after leaving the ATC, in 1946, Lee was hired by the Department of the Interior's Coal Mines Administration to take photographs for a major report on health and safety conditions in bituminous coal mines.
The Lees moved to Austin, Texas, in 1947. At the request of his former FSA chief, Roy Stryker, Lee worked for Standard Oil of New Jersey, documenting the oil industry at home and overseas. Lee continued with industrial photography projects throughout the 1950's, visiting Saudi Arabia and Europe. He contributed to Fortune magazine and was an associate staff member of the prestigious Magnum photographic cooperative.
Between 1949 and 1962, Lee conducted a photographic workshop at the University of Missouri. In 1950, Lee worked with The University of Texas on a study of Spanish-speaking people in Texas. He contributed to the Texas Observer and between 1952 and 1957 covered Ralph Yarborough's election campaigns. His coverage of a 1956 Texas primary campaign appeared in The New York Times. The September, 1961, issue of Texas Quarterly published 150 of some 4,000 photographs taken during a two-and-a-half month visit to Italy. 
In 1965, The University of Texas at Austin presented an exhibition of Lee's photographs and he was invited to join the university's art faculty as an instructor in photography. He taught until his retirement in 1973. Russell Lee died on August 28, 1986.
Dorothy Jean Smith was born in Vernon, Texas on April 13, 1908 to Eugene Lamar Smith and Shirley (Tennie) Lowe. She began writing for the Dallas Times-Herald when she was a high school student and continued a regular column while she attended Southern Methodist University. Jean moved to New Orleans in the mid thirties to live with her sister. In New Orleans, she met and worked with Russell Lee, a photographer for the Farm Security Administration, and they eventually married in 1939. Jean and Russell Lee moved to Austin in 1947. Jean worked as a campaign manager for Emma Long, the first woman to be elected to the Austin City Council. Jean, involved in humanitarian efforts for many years, donated her house to the Austin Community Foundation. She died in Austin, Texas on October 19, 1996.
Actress, director, and designer Mary Sue Birkhead Fridge Jones was born on August 24, 1930 in Carthage, Missouri. She entered Baylor University in 1948 as an art student but eventually found her way to the Theater Department under Paul Baker. She received a Master's in Drama in 1955 from Baylor. Jones began student teaching in 1954 and became an integral part of the Paul Baker teaching team. She taught acting and design at Baylor and later followed Baker in his move to Trinity University, where she was an assistant professor.
Jones was present at the founding of the Dallas Theater Center in 1959 and was made assistant director of the facility. She starred in many Dallas Theater Center productions, winning Dallas's Billy Award in 1963 as best actress for her performance in Sister. Some of her other starring roles at the Dallas Theater Center were in The Taming of the Shrew, Medea, and A Streetcar Named Desire. She was costume and set designer for Julius Caesar, Journey to Jefferson, Macbeth and Marat-Sade to mention only a few. In the 1980s, Baker promoted Jones to associate artistic director and then co-artistic director. Baker, forced to resign from the Dallas Theater Center by the Board of Trustees in 1982, picked her as his successor. The Board appointed her interim artistic director until Adrian Hall was hired to fill the position in 1983. Jones then moved to Santa Fe as artist in residence at the College of Santa Fe, where she taught acting and directed at the Greer Garson Theater Center. In 1988, she was made a full time faculty member of the college.
Mary Sue Jones' first marriage was to Roy Fridge, an artist who also created posters for the Dallas Theater Center. She married Preston Jones on September 7, 1964. Mary Sue Jones died in Santa Fe June 27, 1992.
Earl Casey is a journalist, former CNN senior vice president and longtime close friend of Jerry Jeff and Susan Walker. Casey served as the chief researcher and writer/consultant on Jerry Jeff Walker's autobiography, Gypsy Songman, 1999.
The Common Experience tradition began with the 2004-05 academic year. It "brings students together to read and engage with a powerful text, explore related themes in University Seminar classes, write responses and reactions to the text in writing courses, participate in related symposia with scholarly panels, hear renowned and respected speakers address the topic, see films related to the Common Experience theme, explore the experience by way of the fine arts, engage in informal discussions in residence halls and coffee shops, and extend the exploration via the avenues of their own choosing." Beginning in 2007, the Lyndon Baines Johnson Distinguished Lecture Series was held in conjunction with the Common Experience.
[Taken from Common Experience Website.]
Each year since 2004, diverse groups of faculty, staff, and students have created distinctive experiences for our campus and community, with presentations by some of the world's most important voices on the issues of our time. Speakers have included poet Maya Angelou, filmmaker Spike Lee, writer Isabel Allende, broadcast journalist Soledad O'Brien, filmmaker Robert Rodriguez, Adm. William McRaven, attorney Bryan Stevenson, astronaut José Hernández, and Oscar/Grammy-winner Common. In fall 2020, the Common Experience presented live online events with John Quiñones of ABC News (and host of What Would You Do?) and U.S. Olympic gymnast Laurie Hernandez. Additionally, there have been many special events, such as Innovation Week in 2018, which offered 50-plus events over five days for learning and engaging with new ideas on campus.
Common Experience proposals should establish strong connections to a theme and events that cross academic boundaries, creating junctions for Academic Affairs and Student Affairs.
[Taken from Common Experience email].
The themes and emotions that O'Brien explores in the context of Vietnam are the themes and emotions of human life: friendship, patriotism, duty, sacrifice, leadership, innocence and experience, good and evil, humanity and inhumanity. Arguably the central theme in much of O'Brien's work - a theme he explores with passion and honesty - is Courage. Courage offers a relevant, challenging, and inspiring theme for the 2005-2006 Common Experience.
Common Experience theme explores the trials of segregation and the impact of integration, raising the question of how we internalize change in this 50-year celebration of the desegregation of Texas State. A closer exploration of desegregation reveals a long and difficult struggle to achieve one of modern democracy's great promises, equal access to a quality education. Specifically, we use this 50-year anniversary of the desegregation of our institution as an opportunity to examine issues related to equal access to higher education and the role of laws, litigation, and civil rights movements in helping students obtain higher education. This theme also makes a connection to the 2008-2009 Common Experience theme, "Civic Responsibility and the Legacy of LBJ," celebrating our most famous alumnus, Lyndon Baines Johnson. Bringing LBJ into the conversation emphasizes the role he played in making these changes happen and helps build pride in Texas State and its graduates.
--from the Common Experience Website The theme of "Bridged Through Stories: Shared Heritage of the United States and Mexico" will highlight the work and values of Tomás Rivera as well as those of others from all walks of life who have contributed to the fabric of our common understandings of the world. Through specific attention to connections between stories of Mexico and the United States, this theme will highlight multiple perspectives that contribute to community building, affirmations of identity, and collective struggles to make the world a more just place for everyone.
--from the Common Experience Website Through gaining a stronger comprehension of concepts of justice and crime, students will gain a greater appreciation of a core principle of their democratic system as it pertains to their own fields, as well as to their participation in the process of governance (both as citizens and future leaders). This theme helps students understand some of the more serious repercussions of decisions made by law enforcement, courts, parole boards, and even our elected representatives for both offenders and victims.
--from the Common Experience Website The key to this sustained success: Innovation.
The 2018-19 Common Experience theme focuses on innovation as a means to engage students, faculty, staff, and the community/region in a conversation about the ideas and opportunities that will shape our future, here at Texas State and throughout the world — and beyond.
This theme presents an opportunity not only for innovation to inspire a conversation but also for that conversation to inspire innovation. With eyes to the future, we have an opportunity to draw the connections between the world of innovation and Texas State while also raising Texas State's visibility and reputation in innovating the world...
Innovation is sometimes simple and sometimes remarkably difficult. Major obstacles can hinder progress on any project in any discipline, whether inside a classroom or outside in fieldwork — both in education and the workplace. How we overcome those obstacles demonstrates yet another dimension to innovation.
The world is rapidly changing, and this Common Experience theme aspires to immerse students in that change to become active participants in it.
Many voices. One theme: Innovation.
--from the Common Experience Website While investigating Truth through University Seminar (US 1100) courses, students will understand how truth operates in the context of a university and how students, faculty, and staff seek truths on a daily basis through courses and research. However, truth is not limited to the academic environment — by interrogating common frameworks of truth from nuanced, multidisciplinary lenses, we're empowering students to navigate post-graduate life with an unparalleled critical thinking skill set. This theme will catalyze a collaboration among students, faculty, staff, and the surrounding community. Together, we will discuss the meaning, nature, embodiment, and action of truth and how all involved can become more involved and empathic global citizens. ...
All past Common Experience themes have explored truth. However, by focusing solely on the concept, students can look at truth through every lens: a quest for truth, a search for truth, and an examination of authenticity. Areas of exploration will range from an understanding of university truth — in scholarship and research — to a definition of Universal Truth with a capital T, and from one's own personal truth to a sense of honesty, accuracy, validity, and truthfulness.
--from the Common Experience Website Clyde Beatty was a circus entertainer and lion tamer who ran his own circus. After facing financial hardship in 1956 Beatty sold his circus to Frank McClosky and Walter Kernan. In 1959 the circus was renamed The Clyde Beatty Cole Bros. Circus. Clyde Beatty continued to perform with the show until his death in 1965.
The glass plate negatives in this collection are of the "dry" type, which was a significant innovation. Before their invention in 1871, photographers had to prepare the glass plates and apply emulsions, expose, and develop them while still "wet." To process, or develop, the images, photographers needed a place that was free from light, a "darkroom." Thus, wet plate photographers needed either to remain close to their darkrooms or recreate them in the field.
Dry plate emulsions did not have the same time limitations as wet plate. Their stability allowed for greater mobility and convenience. Photographers could wait to expose their plates and then store them back in the box until they could be developed. Nevertheless, glass plates remained fragile and surprisingly heavy.
While dry glass plates allowed the practice of photography to spread to a larger number of people, it was the invention of roll film (1887) and Kodak's Brownie box camera (1900) which made photography widely accessible to the general public. Roll film was stable, lightweight, and a roll could be mailed to Kodak for developing and printing.
The photographer for this collection was using dry plates, we know they carried these heavy and fragile plates to locations to expose them, then carried them back to the darkroom to process them. The photographer likely needed considerable chemical and technical knowledge, specialized darkroom materials and equipment, and a dedicated work space to develop their plates and print photographs.
The glass plates arrived in Cramer's Lightning Dry Plate negative boxes. Mr. Cramer was a national supplier of dry plates beginning 1883.
Alfred Henry Nolle was born on April 28, 1889 in St. Charles, Missouri to Louis E. H. Nolle and Mary Wilhelmine Boenker Nolle. Nolle graduated from the University of Missouri in 1911 receiving both a Bachelor of Science in Education and a Bachelor of Arts with honors in German. He completed his M.A. at the University of the South (Sewanee) in 1912 and his Ph.D. in German Literature at University of Pennsylvania in 1915. While at the University of Pennsylvania, Nolle received the Joseph G. Rosengarten Traveling Scholarship in Germanics While traveling and studying in Germany in the summer of 1913, he met his future wife Berda Stewart Wilson. They were married on August 16, 1916. Nolle's dissertation, The German Drama on the St. Louis Stage, was published by the University of Pennsylvania in 1917.
Upon receiving his Ph.D., Nolle returned to the University of Missouri and served as an instructor in Germanic languages for four years, 1915 through 1919. He began teaching German at Southwest Texas State Normal College in 1919 and was the first staff member to hold a Ph.D. By 1923, Nolle was appointed Dean of the Faculty, although he continued teaching while serving as an administrator. In 1936, Nolle was appointed Dean of the College.
Early in his career at Southwest Texas State, Dr. Nolle formed a relationship with future U.S. Senator and U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson. The two corresponded until Johnson's death and Nolle maintained an interest in following Johnson's political career.
Dr. Nolle served in a number of educational organizations during his career. At Southwest Texas State Teachers College, he served as the sponsor of extra-curricular clubs devoted to studying the German language, including Die Germanistische Gesellschaft and Der Schiller Verein. Nolle served as a member of the Committee on Standards and Classification of the Association of Texas Colleges from 1923 to 1959 and was chair of the committee from 1939 to 1959. He was also involved in the founding of the Scholarship Societies of Texas which became Alpha Chi, a national honor society. Nolle served as president of the organization in 1927 and then as secretary-treasurer from 1928 through 1969.
For his contributions to education in Texas, Nolle received the honorary degree in Doctor of Laws from the East Texas Baptist College in 1957. Dr. Nolle had served as Dean for 37 years, before retiring in 1959, although he continued to work on campus as the secretary-treasurer of Alpha Chi for another decade. He died on March 7, 1979 in San Marcos, Texas.
Sources: Alpha Chi seeks to honor Alfred H. Nolle, San Marcos Daily Record, September 20, 1989; United States Census, 1910; University of Pennsylvania, Proceedings of Commencement, June 16, 1915; Alfred Henry Nolle draft registration card, June 5, 1917, United States World War I Draft Registration Cards, 1917-1918; The records themselves.
The Gary Cartwright papers date from 1981 to 2000 and are organized into five series: 1.) Books, 2.) Plays, screenplays, and song lyrics, 3.) Articles, 4.) Correspondence, and 5.) Clippings. Included are handwritten notes, clippings, tear sheets, brochures, a cassette tape, drafts and galley proofs. The material describes the research and editing involved in Cartwright's writing process.
This series is arranged chronologically by publication, with an unpublished title at the end. The first subseries is for the book, Galveston, a History of the Island. These files contain research material and an annotated typescript for the book. The files are organized according to the author's filing system, primarily in chronological order. They contain articles, clippings, handwritten notes, newsletters, brochures and tear sheets. There is information on social life, prominent Galveston families, ethnic groups and major events such as the 1900 hurricane.
Material for the second book in this series, HeartWise Guy, spans 1988-1999. These files contain research material, drafts, annotated typescripts, and page proofs. The files are organized according to the author's filing system. They contain articles, clippings, handwritten notes, newsletters, brochures and tear sheets. Topics include aging, lifestyle, diet, medicine, sex, and spirituality. Also included is a letter from Larry McMurtry commenting on his long post-surgery depression following a heart attack.
Materials for Blood will Tell are limited to only correspondence and clippings. And the unpublished title, "Black Pearls," or "Dark Pearls," is represented by an annotated typescript.
This series contains material on screenplays in collaboration with Bud Shrake. There are handwritten song lyrics for Shrake's Pancho Villa's Wedding Day and one draft and two scripts of RIP on which the 1991 teleplay Another Pair of Aces was based. Also included is a ditty hastily composed by Gary Cartwright with Larry L. King late one night in New York City.
See also Accession No. 88-033, 90-059, 91-007 for other material on RIP in the Bud Shrake and Bill Wittliff papers and Accession No. 92-061 for a Cartwright teleplay written for the Ned Blessing series.
This series is primarily composed of drafts and galley proofs for articles written for Texas Monthly. There is a good deal of research material for the 1987 article on the murder of a San Antonio policeman, "Total Hit." The articles report on crime, sports, food and prominent Texans. The files are arranged by date of publication when known.
Articles not written for Texas Monthly are arranged in the subseries, General. This set of articles includes national and international sports culture and travel, and honest and dishonest personalities in Texas culture, art, prisons, and politics. An unpublished article on whistle blowing within several large federal law enforcement agencies is also included.
This series contains correspondence regarding Cartwright's writing projects and those of others. The letters are arranged alphabetically. Notable correspondents include Bill Broyles, Cartwright family members, A.C. Greene, Stephen Harrigan, Ann Richards, and Bud Shrake as well as Playboy Magazine, Rolling Stone, and Texas Monthly.
This series contains newspaper clippings related to Cartwright's work.
The Sarah Bird Papers cover 1985 to 1991 and consist of manuscripts, screenplays, style sheets, and copy editing notes relating to the production of her literary works. It is organized into three series: Romance novels, The Boyfriend School and The Mommy Club.
This series consists of one file containing a style sheet for copy editors for the romance novel, Different Dreams, published in 1985 under the pseudonym Tory Cates.
The Boyfriend School is a comic novel based both on Bird's experience as a romance novelist and her experience working on the independent Austin magazine, Third Coast. This series contains ten folders that include drafts of the novel and several copies of the screenplay. The movie based on the screenplay, entitled Don't Tell Her It's Me, was released in 1991.
The Mommy Club considers motherhood through the eyes of a woman who agrees to bear a child for a wealthy San Antonio couple. The novel received the Violet Crown Award and the Texas Institute of Letters Jesse Jones Award. This series contains twelve folders that include drafts, copy editing notes, a photograph and a dust jacket. Included here is a University of Texas 1990 Images magazine containing an interview with Bird in which she mentions the completion of The Mommy Club, discusses her career, and comments on her novels, The Alamo House and The Boyfriend School. There is also the blue black-striped terry cloth robe Bird wore while working on her novels.
The Joyce Gibson Roach papers date from 1961 to 1991 with the bulk of the material dating from 1970 to 1980. The collection contains the notes, clippings, interviews, articles, brochures, cassettes, and letters used by Roach in the writing of The Cowgirls and C. L. Sonnichsen: Folk Historian. There are two series representing the above mentioned works.
In The Cowgirls, Roach examines the role of women in the forming of the West. The book considers women as ranchers, pistol packers, and rodeo stars. Women in western society and culture are further investigated through a look at movies, songs, dime novels and humor. This series contains answers to Roach's research queries, notes, articles, brochures, clippings, cassettes, letters, photographs and interviews. It is organized generally in the chapter order of the finished book.
This series contains the clippings, articles, reviews, and letters Roach used to craft her pamphlet on the life and work of C. L. Sonnichsen. Sonnichsen (1901-1991) was a noted folk historian who spent the major part of his life as a professor at the University of Texas at El Paso. He retired from UTEP in 1972 and became the director of publications at the Arizona Historical Society. Sonnichsen authored many books about the West including Cowboys & Cattle Kings, I'll Die Before I Run, Mescalero Apaches, and Pass of the North. The series includes many letters from Sonnichsen to Roach, some touching on personal matters and encouraging Roach in her writing efforts
The Neal Barrett, Jr. Papers span 1941 to 1992, the bulk of the material dating from 1973 to 1992. It is divided into two series: Works and Biography/Criticism. The first series contains research notes, manuscript drafts, correspondence with editors, and articles. The second series contains photographs, reviews, interviews and personal effects chronicling Barrett's writing career.
This series contains manuscripts, research notes, correspondence with editors, magazines, reviews, and drawings. Some examples of the material that can be found here are: correspondence between the editor of Omni magazine and the author resulting in changes in the short story, "Diner"; research notes on the Big Thicket (used as a setting in two of Barrett's westerns, Snaketown and Lone Star and the Texas Gambler); and the different stages in the development of the comic book from the script, through the layout and rough drawings to the final product.
This series includes book reviews, magazine and newspaper articles, fliers, photographs, and realia chronicling Barrett's life as a writer.
The materials date from 1985 to 1992 and contain manuscripts, galley proofs, comic book art, scripts and realia. It includes Lansdale's novels, short stories, comic book scripts, anthologies, and screenplays. There are also Lansdale's introductions to the work of others as well as screenplay renditions of Lansdale works by other writers.
The majority of the material in this series is manuscripts, some marked by the editor. Artwork and galley proofs are also included. The files are arranged in chronological order. Titles include: Cold Sweat, an unpublished anthology, The Drive In, The New Frontier: Best of the West 2, By Bizarre Hands, Ice Birds, Savage Season, Cemetery Dance, Batman, The God of the Razor, Weird Western, and Everybody Plays the Fool.
This series is divided into two subseries. The first represents scripts written by Lansdale, including Dead in the West, Drive in Date, Drive By, and Batman: Perchance to Dream. The Batman files represent the development of a script for an animated teleplay. They include Lansdale's teleplay, revisions by other writers and storyboards The second subseries comprises adaptations of Lansdale's work scripted by others.
This series contains an interview made up of written responses (questions are not included) and a shirt worn by Lansdale for dust jacket pictures.
The Larry L. King papers span the years from 1929 to 1993 with most of the material dating from the late 1950s. They are arranged according to the following eleven series: 1. Books; 2. Plays; 3. Articles; 4. Short stories 5. Television; 6. Songs; 7. Speeches; 8. Material about King; 9. Other Writers; 10. Personal Papers; 11. Correspondence. 
Within the archive are manuscripts, galley proofs, magazines, tear sheets, playbooks, flyers, posters, tapes, videos, clippings, correspondence, calendars, cancelled checks, tax receipts, vital records, photographs, T-shirts, a jacket and a typewriter. These materials document King's life and career and provide a thorough overview of his writing process. They include correspondence with or about other Texas writers, such as Larry McMurtry, Bud Shrake, Billy Lee Brammer, Dan Jenkins, Peter Gent, Jay Milner and Gary Cartwright along with letters to friends and family such as cousin Lanvil Gilbert and colorful Texas lawyer, Warren Burnett. The materials are most frequently arranged in chronological order.
Contact the The Wittliff Collections for information about additional materials from this writer that have not yet been fully processed.
This series contains drafts, galley proofs and jackets for books by Larry L. King. Titles include One-Eyed Man (1966), …And Other Dirty Stories (1968), Of Outlaws, Con Men, Whores, Politicians, and Other Artists (1980), The Whorehouse Papers (1981), None But the Blockhead (1986), and Because of Lozo Brown (1988). Also included are drafts from an early unpublished novel, "The Back of a Bear," research material for a never-realized book on Lyndon Baines Johnson, and a file of articles gathered together for Warning: Writer at Work, published by TCU Press. The material is arranged in chronological order.
This series, arranged in chronological order, contains material related to the writing, production and reception of the following theatrical works: The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas, The Kingfish, The Night Hank Williams Died, That Terrible Night Santa Got Lost In The Woods, The Golden Shadows Old West Museum, and The Best Little Whorehouse Goes Public. Many of the manuscripts include letters from King explaining the history and background of the drafts.
The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas, co-written with Peter Masterson is based on King's 1974 Playboy article. It was first produced in showcase production at Actor's Studio, New York City, October 27-November 12, 1977. It then opened off-Broadway at Intermedia Theatre in April 1978, and moved to Broadway's 46th Street Theatre, on June 19, 1978, where its success supported 1,584 performances over the next four and half years and garnered King a Tony award nomination.
The files in this series include scripts, sheet music, screenplay drafts, a playbook, playbills, posters, flyers, reviews, clippings, photographs, tickets, T-shirts, a jacket, promotional buttons, congratulations and a 1981 cartoon by Patrick Oliphant drawn on a napkin.
The Kingfish, a one-man play about the flamboyant Louisiana Governor Huey P. Long, was written with long-time friend and Texas legislator, Ben Z. Grant. Found here are scripts, programs, playbills, the SMU Press book jacket and clippings.
The Night Hank Williams Died premiered at the Memphis State University theatre. After several revisions, the play received its world premiere in Washington, D.C. in 1988. The following year it opened Off-Broadway. For this play, King received the Theatre Lobby Trust's 1988 Mary Goldwater Award for his contribution as playwright and actor and the 1989 Helen Hayes Award for best new play. These files contain scripts, correspondence on rewrites and production prospects, congratulations, awards, flyers, posters, playbills, audition notes, reviews, clippings, SMU Press proofs, a playbook and screenplays.
The Golden Shadows Old West Museum was also tried out first in a workshop production at Memphis State University. These files contain a script, correspondence on revisions, playbills, flyers, reviews, and posters.
In addition to the above material, this series includes an outline of The Best Little Whorehouse Goes Public, a playbook for a one-act play titled Christmas: 1933 and a playbill for the same one-act under the original title, That Terrible Night Santa Got Lost In The Woods, and a prospectus and treatment for "Road Story" an aborted project with Glenn Frey and Jimmy Buffett, put together by the New York producer Rocco Landesman.
Also included in this series is research material and a script for a never-completed project on Lydia Thompson, an English burlesque queen who was all the rage in late 19th century America.
This series covers King's contributions to magazines and newspapers from his days with the Odessa-American in the 1950s, through his stint in Washington as editor of Capitol Hill, to his work for national magazines including Harper's, Life, Esquire, The Progressive, Sports Illustrated, Sport, Cosmopolitan, Playboy and Parade. The series contains tear sheets, and in some cases, whole copies of the magazine in which the article appeared. In addition, King's collection of The Texas Observer, to which he was a frequent contributor, is included. These issues have been removed from the plastic, colored, 3-ring binders in which King kept them. There are tear sheets for King's column for New Times and Washington Star, and newspaper clippings of his book reviews. The files contain galley proofs, magazines, cover pages, tear sheets and newspaper clippings and are arranged chronologically.
This series contains only one file. Something Went With Daddy appeared in the literary journal, Story, in Autumn 1990. It contains the original manuscript, a final edit, and a copy of the journal.
King won an Emmy in 1982 for his television contribution, CBS Reports: The Best Little Statehouse in Texas, which first aired in August 1981. These files include a videotape and transcript of the show as well as a publicizing post card. Here also is a proposal for a TV series with a political setting.
King penned some lyrics for his play The Night Hank Williams Died and later sold these along with others styled in a country and western vein in a package of ten. This series contains a demo tape and scratch notes for the songs. See also the Gary Cartwright Papers, Box 7, file 13 for a lyric King composed one night in New York with friend and fellow writer, Cartwright.
This series contains the invitations, announcements and flyers for functions King attended or participated in. Manuscripts of his speeches and the tape from the PEN Faulkner honors ceremony of 1990 are located here.
Speech to the editors of National Geographic Magazine, Washington D.C., March 12, 1988
Salute to Sarah McLendon, National Press Club, Washington D.C., November 26, 1990
Lyndon Baines Johnson Distinguished Lectures, Southwest Texas State University, October 3, 1991
Speech to Alcohol and Drug Counselors, Fairfax, VA, November 2, 1991
This series contains clippings, interviews, a video, cartoons and research papers on King's writing career.
"The Best Little Writer in Texas," Leslie White Clay, Southern Methodist University, 1986
"Perspectives on the South: The Writing of Willie Morris and Larry L. King," James B. Smith, Jr., University of Texas, May 21, 1973.
"Ruminating and Relating in the Texas Essay," Clifford, Craig Edward, Tarleton State University, undated
This series contains material, mostly clippings, King collected on contemporary writers. It includes a reminiscence of Billie Lee Brammer by Glenn Wilson of their days on Capitol Hill and a manuscript by Jack Runnel probably sent to King for his comments.
This series contains personal records such as report cards, army discharge, birth and marriage certificates. There are photographs of King, his family and friends, cancelled checks and tax records from the mid-1970s.
Correspondence forms the bulk of the King Papers, filling over 21 boxes. It is arranged chronologically, reflecting King's own arrangement -- he kept a box under his desk where he tosses the letters (with a copy of his response attached) as he answers them. When the box becomes full, King stuffs the letters into a large brown envelope upon which he marks the months and year covered.
The correspondence describes writing projects, including fan response and King's reaction to it. He is generous with advice to aspiring writers and frequently discusses the literary craft with his writer friends. Writer correspondents include Borden Deal, Ronnie Dugger, Peter Gent, A. C. Greene, Norman Mailer, Jay Milner, Willie Morris, Terry Pringle, Frank Rich, Edwin (Bud) Shrake, H. Allen Smith, William Styron, Barlow Herget, and, less frequently, Billy Lee Brammer, Jim Brosnan, Jim Lehrer, Larry McMurtry, Bill Moyers and Bill Wittliff. Other correspondents are the Texas attorney, Warren Burnett, King's cousin Lanvil Gilbert, legislator and The Kingfish co-writer Ben Z. Grant, Midland lawyer Reagan Legg, Director Keith Kennedy, high school coach Aubra Nooncaster, politicians Morris Udall and Jim Wright, and many more friends and family.
The archive contains book manuscripts, newspaper clippings, tear sheets, correspondence, photographs, and Brammer's high school baseball uniform pants. Included in the collection are the typed manuscripts of The Gay Place, and the unfinished sequel to that work, Fustian Days; newspaper and magazine articles written by Brammer; reviews for The Gay Place; and letters which describe Brammer's tenure as a Johnson staff member, his marriage to Nadine Eckhardt, and his writing.
This series contains Brammer's typed manuscripts of The Gay Place and the unfinished novel, Fustian Days. Both manuscripts are a gift from William Broyles, the first editor of Texas Monthly, who admired Brammer, hired him to write for the magazine, and encouraged him to write consistently again. The Gay Place manuscript is followed by the play adaptation, Come and Join the Dance, by Brammer's daughters, Sidney and Shelby. Included are Brammer's two Texas Observer articles: a tear sheet about the Observer editor, Ronnie Dugger, from the August 25, 1961, issue; and the January 10, 1963 edition, which contains Brammer's Glooey, a satire of the Kennedy White House based on J. D. Salinger's Frannie and Zooey. There is also a file of Brammer's jottings - a 1965 interview with a writer called Norman Maelstrom set in El End Zone; a memo of advice on running El End Zone; notes on the media, possibly written for the SMU journalism class; and a page titled "The Angst Book." (Ronnie Dugger in a reminiscence on Brammer states, "he made a bundle of journal type notes he called 'the Angst Books" [Washington Post, June 18, 1978].) These pieces were purchased from Larry McMurtry's bookstore, Booked Up, in 1988.
This series contains clippings and articles about Brammer, reviews of his work, and the eulogy presented at his funeral. Also included are correspondence - many from his publisher Houghton-Mifflin about The Gay Place, some from his agent, a few personal letters, and a dust jacket of The Gay Place. There are photos of Brammer with his family and friends, which were enlarged and duplicated by Bill Wittliff. The material is filed in chronological order.
Nadine Eckhardt (nee Nadine Ellen Cannon) was the first wife of Billy Lee Brammer and the mother of his three children. The two met as students at North Texas State College and married on April 22, 1950. Nadine Brammer worked for a time on the Lyndon Baines Johnson staff along with her husband, but later returned with her children to live in Austin while Brammer remained in Washington. In 1961, the Brammers were divorced and in 1962, Nadine married Texas Congressman Bob Eckhardt. Her papers contain Brammer's school records, his Air Force application, correspondence, and a file on The Gay Place. The bulk of the correspondence comes from those times during the Brammers' marriage when they lived separately - while Nadine lived in her parents' home in McAllen during her first pregnancy, and while she lived with the children in Austin when Brammer worked as a Johnson staff member in Washington. Their letters discuss their marriage, their children, work, and Brammer's writing. Brammer writes about his Washington staff job, Johnson, and other staff aides. There are also letters to and from Brammer's McAllen in-laws, the Cannons. Photographs and clippings are interspersed throughout the correspondence. The final folders contain The Gay Place file, which contains a wide range of information related to the book and the author. In the divorce settlement, Nadine received one-half interest in The Gay Place; and the collection of these materials is related to that interest. It consists of reviews, sales records, examples of Brammer's newspaper writing, clippings about Brammer, Brammer memos to Johnson, etc. In 1976, Nadine Eckhardt considered writing an autobiography and she asked Brammer to collaborate with her, hoping to spark Brammer back into writing. This project produced a chronology and a few notes from Brammer. There is also a chronology of Johnson's activities from 1955 to 1956, which Nadine Eckhardt was given by government oral historian Michael L. Gillette to help her remember events for an interview. The material is in chronological order except for The Gay Place file, which is in the original filing order.
One hundred and fifty-two boxes of typescripts, galley proofs, notes, research files, correspondence, and artifacts, among other items, document the life and career of Edwin "Bud" Shrake (1931-2009). The collection is arranged into following series: Periodicals (1953-2006), Fiction (1959-2008), Screenplays/Teleplays (1970-1994), Playscripts (1977-1994), Non-fiction, Anthologies, Correspondence, Financial Papers, Corporations, Legal Papers, Research, Personal Papers and Other Writers, Correspondence (1936-2009, undated), Financial Papers (1963-2000), Corporations (1969-1995, undated), Legal Papers (1977-1997), Research (circa 1954-2006), Personal Papers (1901-2009, undated) and Other Writers, 1968-2007, undated).The Edwin "Bud" Shrake Papers reflect Shrake's 58-year career as a professional sportswriter, journalist, fiction writer, script writer, and non-fiction writer. Numerous drafts of his books and screenplays in the Works series give insight into Shrake's creative process. The many correspondence files show his relationship through the years with various editors, agents, friends, family members and fellow writers. Other aspects of Shrake's life like financial and legal matters, and personal effects like artwork and scrapbooks, are represented in the later series.
Arranged chronologically, this series includes photocopies and printouts of articles and columns written by Shrake and published in newspapers and magazines, from 1953-2006. These folders do not contain all of Shrake's published work in periodicals, particularly regarding his years as a sportswriter and police beat reporter in Fort Worth and Dallas. Most notably missing is anything from his work at the Dallas Times Herald.
The series is composed of two sub-series Published and Unpublished material.
Published material starts with the first short story Shrake published, in 1959, and ending with his last novel to be published, in 2006, this sub-series is arranged chronologically according to publication date. It contains handwritten, typewritten and computer-generated drafts, proofs of all kinds, correspondence, contracts, promotional materials, research files, and press clippings. The book with the most copious files is The Borderland, started in 1976 but not published until 2000. In general, the files for the earlier novels, being before the advent of computers, contain more materials like corrected drafts and proofs.
The Unpublished sub-series is arranged alphabetically, this is a much smaller sub-series than its predecessor, contains mainly early short stories and unfinished novels. One of the unfinished novels, "These Unhappy Occasions," led directly to Blessed McGill. Also included is a finished novel titled "Malibu Zulu" that Shrake completed in 2008 and intended to publish under a pen name. (It was published as Hollywood Mad Dogs in 2020).
This series is also divided into Produced and Unproduced work.
The Produced sub-series is arranged by production date. It contains similar materials: drafts, correspondence, contracts, promotional materials and press clippings. The three projects Shrake was most closely involved with — Kid Blue, Songwriter and Pair of Aces — contain the most materials. The Beverly Hills Cop II folders contain documents related to the unsuccessful arbitration Shrake and Dan Jenkins initiated in order to get writing credits on the movie.
The Unproduced sub-series is the most voluminous, reflecting Shrake's prolific work as a screenwriter from the early 1970s to the early 1990s. Except for the three film treatments at the beginning, the files are arranged alphabetically. Contents are typically drafts and treatments, with some correspondence and research. Those works that contain more materials than others often reflect that they were closer to being produced, such as with "The Big Mamoo," the various Pancho Villa projects, and "Slim and None." Shrake collaborated with Dan Jenkins in the 1970s and 80s on many of the unproduced screenplay efforts. Two of Shrake's attempts to turn his novels into films are also contained here: Strange Peaches and Limo, the latter written with Jenkins.
Again, this series is divided into Produced and Unproduced material.
The sub-series of produced works is arranged by production date. The bulk of the sub-series consists of Pancho Villa's Wedding Day, which, after Shrake turned it from a film script into a play script, underwent more incarnations, including as a musical. Numerous, corrected drafts are included, from 1977 to 1994, when he stopped revising it. The play was staged in 1984. The last play in the series, The Friend of Carlos Monzon, was staged posthumously, and materials from that production, though not directly donated by Shrake, are included.
The Unproduced sub-series contains only one untitled playscript, and notes, correspondence, research and a corrected draft for "Jack," a play Shrake co-wrote with Michael Rudman, but failed to get produced.
Though essentially consisting of only three projects, all published, this sub-series contains a voluminous amount of research on its subjects, especially Willie Nelson. Included in the Willie materials are numerous tapes and transcripts of interviews Shrake and others did with Nelson and his acquaintances. Also included are clipping files on Nelson and country music going back to 1978 (when Shrake was writing the Songwriter screenplay), and many files of corrected draft fragments. Notably, the opposite is true for the Barry Switzer book, Bootlegger's Boy—no research files are present in the papers, except for some clippings on Switzer gathered post-publication. The sub-series Harvey Penick Books contains drafts for all five Penick/Shrake books, plus research on Penick and golf, interviews, contracts, photographs, and all kinds of marketing materials. As with the files on Willie Nelson, the Harvey Penick files are ample with biographical information on their subject and insight into their subject's craft.
Interview cassettes: Betty Jameson, Tom Gresham, Mickey Wright, Mary Lena Faulk, John Trimble, Marshall Pengra, Bobby Moncrief, Harris Greenwood, Harris and Ed Turley, Harvey Penick - with notes attached (24-27 June 1991) (5)
Interview micro-cassettes: Sandra Palmer, Harvey Penick (July 1994, undated) (2), Tinsley Penick, Kathy Whitworth, women talking
This small series contains four drafts of the fiction piece, "How To Live Forever," first published in Land of the Permanent Wave.
Two main subseries constitute the Correspondence series: Alphabetical and Chronological. This arrangement reflects Shrake's, in that he filed some of his letters by correspondent, and some by year. Most correspondence in the Alphabetical sub-series are with friends, collaborators, and family members. The Chronological sub-series contains correspondence from a far wider range of addressors, some strangers to Shrake and others intimate friends.
A name index for the chronological letters is available in a separate document. See http://www.thewittliffcollections.txstate.edu/research/a-z/shrake.html or ask an archivist to see the document.
Please note that letters pertaining directly to writing projects are filed with those projects, as that is most often how Shrake filed them. Also note that some folders in this series are access restricted.
This series is arranged chronologically, and contains receipts, income taxes, expense reports, financial statements and other documents related to various aspects of Shrake's life. The financial records tend to give snapshots of Shrake's financial situation and lifestyle through the years, rather than a complete picture. Besides expense reports from Sports Illustrated that go to 1976, the financial records do not contain any documents between 1972 and 1980.
This series documents the two corporations that Shrake started and operated: Mad Dog, Inc. and East Pole Corporation. The Mad Dog, Inc. Corporate Structure and correspondence reflect the company's satirical nature. The East Pole Corporation materials include receipts, reports, a budget, tax records, pension plan and an embosser.
Seven subjects of a legal nature are documented in this series: Austin Sun Publishing Company, Jan Demetri, ICM Contracts, Gary DeShazo, D.W.I., Buttercup Mountain and Manny Newburger. The series is arranged chronologically.
Shrake kept subject files on a wide variety of topics, often having to do with ideas for writing projects. These files make up the Subject Files sub-series and are the bulk of the Research series. They are arranged alphabetically by subject. Also included in the Research series are the Notes and Notebooks sub-series, and books and general research. The series is arranged chronologically by sub-series
This series contains materials belonging to Shrake of a more personal nature and is arranged chronologically. The oldest item in this series, and in the collection, is Shrake's father's baby dress. Also included are certificates, clippings about Shrake and friends, photographs of Shrake, family and friends, scrapbooks, short stories written for class, two typewriters, a briefcase Shrake used for traveling on Sports Illustrated assignments, Shrake's leather office chair, artwork by Shrake and friends, property maintenance records, drafts of speeches, among other materials.
Shrake kept files of works by various writers, which are kept in this series. Some of these files contain editing notes by Shrake or correspondence from the writer. The series is arranged alphabetically by author's last name. Included are the production files for Another Pair of Aces, a TV movie written by Rob Gilmer that was a sequel to Shrake and Cartwright's Pair of Aces. Shrake was a co-producer of this movie. In the late 1990s, Roger Young wrote a screenplay for Blessed McGill, and worked with Shrake and G.W. Bailey to get it produced. The drafts and correspondence from this failed effort are included here. Shrake's good friends Gary Cartwright, Dan Jenkins, Larry L. King, Jay Milner, Willie Morris and Bill Wittliff have works in this series as well — often more than one.
The Preston Jones papers span the years 1940 to 1988. The archive contains typescripts, set designs, playbills, props, clippings, magazines, articles, letters, photographs, personal items (pipes, glasses, keys, a stuffed bear collection, etc.), mementos (World War I items, ticket stubs, "good show" gifts, etc.), awards, posters, school records, sculptures, scrapbooks, audiotapes, videotapes, T-shirts, and athletic equipment. Most of the material was saved by Preston's widow, Mary Sue Jones. Mary Sue kept files on Preston and his career in several different file groups. These file groups have been rearranged and consolidated into chronological order within subjects. The records are comprised of five series: Early Years and Dallas Theater Center, Plays, Professional Files, Publicity Files, and Illness and Death. The series chronicle Preston's personal and professional life, from his childhood in New Mexico through his days as a successful playwright.
This series outlines Preston Jones' life before he became known as a playwright. It begins with photographs, articles and memorabilia of his father, James "Jawbone" Jones. It continues with boyhood photographs, yearbooks, memorabilia and drawings from his elementary school, high school, and college in New Mexico. Class notes, designs, school records, and diplomas represent his master's work in playwrighting from Baylor University in Waco and Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas. Scrapbooks and photographs of Mary Sue and Preston's honeymoon trip to Europe in 1964 and subsequent trips and vacations to Europe and Colorado are present. Jones was an enthusiastic player of darts and baseball, and equipment from both sports is included here. His intense interest in World War I, in which his father had served, is well documented by pamphlets, photographs, slides, medals, posters, and military memorabilia as well as sculptures Preston made out of coffee stirrers, many of which represent World War I scenes. Included too in this series are personal items: wallets, slides, programs, posters, pipes, and other paraphernalia. Finally there is material on Jones' career at the Dallas Theater Center in the form of scrapbooks, audiotapes and photographs.
This series is organized into 3 subseries: Unproduced Writings; A Texas Trilogy; and Post-Trilogy plays. Many of the files reflect Mary Sue's filing system but the material has been consolidated and reorganized by play in chronological order. The group Unproduced Writings contains manuscripts of Preston Jones' unproduced plays. Included is his thesis adaptation of The Night of the Hunter. The three plays of the trilogy in the second subseries were performed together for the first time at the Dallas Theater Center in 1975 as the Bradleyville Trilogy. They played again as A Texas Trilogy in May 1976 at the Kennedy Center in Washington, D. C. and at the Broadhurst Theater in New York in September 1976. The first set of files refers to the three plays as a unit and contains playbills, posters, set designs, reviews, clippings and screenplay drafts. There is considerable documentation of the Washington and New York productions--promotional articles, photographs, reviews, playbills, congratulation notes, memorabilia (t-shirts, Algonquin hotel mementos) and interviews. Preston's Teddy Bear collection is included here. His favorite was a small teddy bear named Fred, an ever-present good luck talisman that was buried with him. Knights was the first completed play of the Trilogy, premiering at the Down Center Stage in the Dallas Theater Center on December 4, 1973. This subseries contains the handwritten versions of the play along with successive drafts and rewrites. Also included are props, costumes, playbills, programs, clippings, reviews, and interviews. The material is arranged by format (scripts, props, programs, clippings) in chronological order. Preston Jones began LuAnn before the other two plays of the Trilogy, inventing as he did so the connecting thread, the town of Bradleyville. LuAnn was the second of the three plays to be completed, premiering in February of 1974. This subseries contains scripts and rewrites, programs, clippings, reviews, photographs and a video of the University of Minnesota 1980s production. After Knights and LuAnn had been presented, Preston Jones wrote the final play of the Trilogy, The Oldest Living Graduate. It premiered at the Down Center Stage November 1974. In 1980, Graduate was presented live on television costarring Henry Fonda, Cloris Leachman, George Grizzard, and Harry Dean Stanton. This set of files contains the scripts and rewrites, clippings, reviews, and photographs. Included is a video of the 1980 telecast along with clippings and reviews. Preston Jones turned to his native New Mexico as the inspiration for the three plays written after the Trilogy. In 1975, Jones began writing A Place on the Magdalena Flats, also titled The Plains of St. Augustine, which examines the relationship of two brothers working their New Mexican ranch during the 1956 drought. Santa Fe Sunshine is a comic play about an artist's colony. Remember concerns an actor reminiscing on his past during a visit to his boyhood home. Included here also are records on Juneteenth, a one-act play commissioned by the Actor's Theatre in Louisville, and a tribute to Lady Bird Johnson on her 65th birthday, scripted and staged by Preston. This subseries contains handwritten and typed drafts and rewrites, programs, photographs, set designs, memorabilia, clippings of reviews and publicity, and audio and videotapes.
This series contains journals, address books, correspondence, contracts, royalty payments, articles, clippings and photographs. The major part of the material relates to A Texas Trilogy and is made up of communications with agents, fans, and theaters concerning options on the plays. Included is correspondence with Hal Wallis in regard to the movie production of the Trilogy.
This series contains materials on the promotion of Preston Jones' theatrical career especially in regard to the Trilogy. It includes photographs, clippings, reviews, articles, interviews and videotapes, providing information on aspects of the author's life, career, and writing methods.
Jones died unexpectedly in September of 1979 after surgery for bleeding ulcers. This series contains documents concerning Jones' medical care and cause of death, obituaries, the funeral service, the memorial fund established at the Dallas Theater Center, sympathy cards, Christmas cards, acknowledgments from Mary Sue Jones, correspondence and reports on the estate.
This series contains World War I memorabilia, material relating The Texas Trilogy, and personal items.
Forty-nine boxes of typescripts, galley proofs, correspondence, printed material, photographs, scrapbook material, notes, and artifacts, among other items, document almost the entire writing career of John Graves (1920-2013).
The collection has been arranged into seven series: Writings (1946-2004, undated), Correspondence (1943-2006, undated), Institutional Activities (1960-1998), Awards and Honors (1961-2004), Personal Materials (circa 1920-2002, undated), Clippings (circa 1940-2004, undated), and Writings by Others (1942-2002, undated).
The author's original order has been maintained where possible. The collection gives an overview of Graves' literary career, and with numerous drafts of many of his books, essays and short stories, it is particularly strong in illustrating his writing process. Another strength of the collection lies in its documentation of the editorial process, illustrated by the correspondence with publishers and agents found in both the Works and Correspondence series. Numerous letters between Graves and fans, family and friends were added to the collection in 2007, making the Correspondence series at ten boxes the second most voluminous. Other highlights of the collection are personal photographs and journals in the Personal Materials series.
The Monograph series includes research notes, typed manuscripts, galley proofs, printed materials, correspondence, and other materials chronicling Graves' literary contributions from his earliest short stories to his more recent essays and memoir. Materials from all of his books are included. Many of these materials were annotated by Graves with personal comments when he donated the materials to Bill Wittliff.
Manuscript materials relating to the books Graves is credited as writing or co-writing make up the first series. Materials are arranged alphabetically by book title. Of particular interest in the files pertaining to his first book Goodbye to a River are photographs taken by Graves during his trip down the Brazos River, the plate proofs of the first edition, and two printed articles written before the publication of the book. There are also drafts of his second book, Hard Scrabble, and his 2004 memoir, Myself and Strangers. The materials relating to From a Limestone Ledge have to do with the publication of the book itself; materials relating to the essays that were previously published in Texas Monthly are in the following sub-series. Likewise, materials under Blue and Some Other Dogs, The Last Running, and Self-Portrait, With Birds have to do with the book versions of these writings, not the original versions, which can be found in the next sub-series.
The Other Writings series is devoted to the many short stories, essays, book introductions, tributes, and unpublished pieces written by Graves, and spans almost six decades. This series is also the largest in the collection, filling eleven document boxes, plus oversize. The works within it are arranged alphabetically by title, usually according to the official published title, but sometimes by a book title if Graves' piece is an untitled introduction, or a draft title if the piece is unpublished. Many of these files contain correspondence, notes and research as well as typescripts and drafts. Some files also include or are limited to the publication itself that published it, or a clipping or photocopy of the published piece.
Graves' work for Texas Monthly is thoroughly documented in this series, including the typescripts, galleys, clippings and correspondence he kept in two binders, covering ten years of published essays in the magazine. The manuscript of Graves' first published short story, "Quarry," can be found in this series, as well as one of his most famous pieces, "The Last Running," in both fiction and screenplay formats.
The third series covers speeches that Graves wrote and delivered, arranged alphabetically by the event or occasion. Like the previous two series, these files contain drafts, correspondence, published forms, notes and other materials related to their subjects.
The Correspondence series contains letters that highlight Graves' writing career, with letters to and from publishers, agents, fellow writers, fans, event organizers and others. Insights into Graves' personal life and thoughts are also found in letters between Graves and longtime friends and family members. Graves kept carbon copies and later computer printout copies of many of his letters to others, so the researcher gets both sides of the letter-writing dialogue, in these folders and elsewhere in the collection where correspondence is included.
The vast majority of the correspondence is filed alphabetically by last name, though in a handful of cases by institution name, event name, or subject. Within the folders that are labeled with a range of names the correspondence is arranged and labeled in smaller folders. Folders that have just one name written on them means the volume of letters warranted its own folder (or in some cases, more than one folder).
The correspondence in the John Schaffner file is notable for chronicling the agent-writer relationship. Schaffner was Graves' agent until 1979, and this file, covering eighteen years, highlights their personal and professional association during that time. Writers Rick Bass, Angus Cameron, Nick Lyons and John N. Cole have considerable amounts of correspondence with Graves, as does writer and photographer Bill Wittliff, who has also been a close friend of and sometime collaborator with Graves through the years. Though less voluminous, the letters between Graves and Cormac McCarthy reveal a respect and kinship between the two men.
Daughters Helen Graves and Sally Jackson also have a considerable amount of correspondence in this series. Fleet Lentz and Abe Rothberg each have multiple folders, making evident their important friendships with Graves. Another significant friendship documented in letters is that of Graves and Samuel Hynes, who have been close friends since their days together at Columbia University. These letters are arranged in two parts, one restricted and one not. Letters donated by Mr. Hynes himself for inclusion in the John Graves Papers are restricted from access until after the deaths of both gentlemen. There are also two other, unrelated letters placed at the end of the series that are restricted until 30 years after the death of Mr. Graves.
There are two main parts to this series: Texas Institute of Letters, and Classes and Workshops. The former sub-series deals with Graves' membership in and activities with T.I.L., including two folders of his 1971-73 presidency of the organization; while the latter sub-series contains syllabus information and notes related to two courses and one workshop taught by Graves. The files in these two sub-series are arranged chronologically. The last part in Institutional Activities is a file relating to the "John Graves Essay Contest," conducted by The University of Texas Press. Graves was the judge of the final three-place winners of the contest.
This series is arranged chronologically, and contains mainly invitations, programs and photographs related to awards and honors bestowed upon Graves. A significant portion of this series deals with the Dallas Museum of Art's "John Graves Day," celebrated in May 1995, and includes video recordings of the event as well as correspondence, clippings and programs.
Notebooks, legal papers, financial papers, photographs, journals, objects and academic records make up the majority of the materials in this series. Graves' academic career is well documented through grade reports and written recommendations, class notes from undergraduate and graduate school, and his Columbia University Master's thesis on William Faulkner. Of particular interest in this series is the notebook Graves used while traveling in Europe and his journal of a trip down the Rio Conchos, as well as many copy prints of family photographs. Objects of note include Graves' Royal Standard typewriter and the paddle and tent he used during his canoe trip down the Brazos River in 1957. Materials in this series are arranged chronologically according to sub-series.
The "Reading Notes" journals in Box 38 may not be viewed or duplicated without the permission of John Graves or Bill Wittliff.
Photocopies—and the originals, when available—of newspaper and magazine clippings related mostly to Graves' writing career can be found in this series. The clippings are filed in chronological order. A number of issues of entire magazines are kept in Box 47, due to their size.
This series consists mainly of draft photocopies and printouts of other people's novels, essays, screenplays and poetry. Also included are correspondence, clippings, research, notes and page proofs. A handful are essays written about Graves, but the majority of the files are creative works that Graves has proofread or for which he has offered promotional comments.
The typescript "A Texas Rancher in Durango, Mexico" may not be viewed without permission from John Graves or Bill Wittliff.
The collection is composed of 21 boxes of manuscripts, galley proofs, notes, clippings, correspondence, artwork, financial and legal papers, screenplays, photographs, and artifacts, from 1971 to 2000 that document Stephen Harrigan's writing career. It has been arranged into six series: Works (1971-2000, undated), Correspondence (1976-1991, undated), Personal Materials (undated), Works by Other Authors, (1971-1972, 1992-1993, undated), Texas Institute of Letters (1982-1983, 1985-1986), and Clippings (1971-1983).
The Works series comprises the largest part of the Harrigan collection. It thoroughly documents Harrigan's methodical writing process. Most of the books and articles can be traced from the earliest notes taken by Harrigan to a proof copy or published work. The other series relate generally to his writing career. The materials are arranged in chronological order. Largely absent from the collection are personal papers or correspondence.
Books in the Stephen Harrigan Collection have been cataloged separately.
This series surveys Harrigan's creative works from his work as ad writer at the University Co-op to the publication of his book, Water and Light. It includes manuscript drafts, notes, notebooks, galley proofs, correspondence, magazines, clippings, financial and legal papers, screenplays, photographs and artifacts. In some cases Harrigan added notes and inscriptions describing the materials and providing background information. This series is further divided into six subseries: Early Works, Books, Screenplays, Songs, Contributions to Texas Monthly, and General Works.
The first subseries, Early Works, contains notes, clippings, manuscripts, correspondence, artwork, financial papers and forms documenting Harrigan's writing before the publication of his first book. It contains clippings of the ads Harrigan wrote for the University Co-op and materials from Lucille, the journal of poetry that he helped found and edit. Both are introduced by notes written by Harrigan in 1988 giving additional information and background about his job at the Co-op and his association with Lucille. The Co-op clippings are arranged chronologically, and the Lucille files have been grouped by type of material, having lost their original order. Of particular interest in the Lucille files are the three folders of submissions of aspiring poets, some of whom have gone on to literary success, such as Naomi Shihab (Nye), R. S. Gwynn and Vassar Miller.
The second subseries, entitled Books, contains research notes, background materials, legal papers, handwritten and typed manuscripts, galley proofs, correspondence, reviews and artwork for four of Harrigan's published books. There are multiple drafts of each book, and the handwritten notes and early drafts of Aransas, Jacob's Well, Water and Light and Gates of the Alamo provide an overview of Harrigan's writing process. His attention to detail and in-depth organization are demonstrated in his research for Water and Light, which includes two boxes of index cards with notes about the sea and the history of diving as well as his personal notes from his trip to Grand Turk Island. The materials are arranged alphabetically by book.
Screenplays, the third subseries, contains research notes and multiple drafts of Harrigan's screenplay ISHI, which was filmed for HBO in 1992 as The Last of His Tribe. Many of these drafts were maintained in notebooks and materials found in the pockets of these notebooks have been placed at the back of each folder. The drafts are arranged chronologically, from the earliest draft to the final production script and shooting notes. Also found in the subseries is the script "Moonwalker," co-written by Harrigan and Lawrence Wright.
The fourth subseries, Songs, contains various typed and handwritten drafts of a song written by Harrigan entitled "The Old Three."
The fifth subseries, Contributions to Texas Monthly, contains research materials and notes, manuscript drafts, galley proofs, correspondence, photographs, artwork, and published articles written by Harrigan for Texas Monthly magazine. Harrigan's talent as a journalist is well documented here, showing the broad range of his interests, from an interview with Governor Bill Clements to research on the sculptor Pompio Coppini to essays on the natural wonders of Texas. Some of these articles were later published in Harrigan's third book, A Natural State: Essays on Texas. Also included are a number of complete issues of Texas Monthly in which Harrigan's articles appeared.
Within the final subseries are general materials relating to Harrigan's writing career. It includes multiple handwritten and typed drafts on broadcasting, a typed essay on the exploration of Texas, an application for the NASA "Journalist in Space" program, a press release, and a clipping about the author. Also included are handwritten notebooks of Harrigan's poetry and prose.
Within this series is correspondence relating to Harrigan's writing. The letters range from requests for articles from magazines and journals to letters of interest from agents and publishers, "Letters to the Editor" forwarded to Harrigan from Texas Monthly, letters from other writers and friends, fan mail, and correspondence from organizations like the Texas Institute of Letters, of which Harrigan is a former president. The series is arranged chronologically except for one folder of short notes from Lee Goerner, Harrigan's editor at Knopf. Other correspondents of note include John A. Sterling, Wallace Stegner, A.C. Greene, Elmer Kelton and Gunnar M. Hansen.
Within this series are a few materials relating to Harrigan's personal life. Of particular interest are swimming fins and underwater slate, still imprinted with faint notes from a scuba diving trip.
This series contains the typescripts of one screenplay and two books by writers other than Harrigan. Arrangement is alphabetical by author.
This series contains material from Harrigan's years as an active member of the Texas Institute of letters. The documents include meeting minutes, financial statements, correspondence, newspaper clippings, and programs from Institute events
This series includes photocopies of newspaper clippings about Harrigan and his work saved by the author and original clippings of his ads for the University Co-op. His Co-op ads have been preservation photocopied and reside in Series I.
Two boxes of manuscripts, clippings, published articles, programs, correspondence, photographs, and artifacts (1963-1975, undated), contain the books and essays that Stilwell was working on at the time of his death as well as related materials donated by his widow and daughter. The collection has been arranged into three series: Works, (1963-1975, undated), Personal Materials (1967, 1971, 1975, undated), and Photographs (undated).
See also gifts of Anne Stilwell Strong, Mary Gray Hughes, Jean Lee, and Wilfred and Bridget Webb for books by Hart Stilwell. The Russell Lee Collection contains photographs of Hart Stilwell. The Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at The University of Texas at Austin has 23 letters from Stilwell to J. Frank Dobie in the Dobie Collection.
The body of this series contains the manuscripts that were unpublished at Stilwell's death. Three book drafts are represented. Glory of the Silver King is a manuscript about tarpon fishing in Texas and Mexico and Old Two Toes is a story about the hunt for a disabled wolf who is hunting sheep. The largest draft is The Great White Immaculate Bird and Other Toys, a series of essays criticizing human efforts to change animals for commercial purposes. There are three drafts of this typescript, all of which contain handwritten emendations. A number of short essays by Stilwell written for newspapers and magazines are also found in this series; many of these essays cover topics found in The Great White Immaculate Bird, but others discuss such subjects as feminism, football at The University of Texas, and the loss of the Southern dialect. One folder contains a few published articles by Stilwell, generally focusing on food but also covering such topics as javelin hunting, the demise of the jalapeño, and the death of outlaw Sam Bass. The correspondence in this series consists of two rejection letters
Within this series are clippings, programs, promotional pamphlets, and artifacts belonging or related to Hart Stilwell. Separation sheets for the artifacts in the Stilwell Collection like his typewriter and camera are included in this series.
This series contains photographs of Stilwell, the majority of which were taken by his good friend, photographer Russell Lee. Stilwell is featured with his wife, Anne, in many of the photographs, but there is one photograph of Stilwell with J. Frank Dobie. Also found in this series are publicity photographs and one Russell Lee photograph that was used on the cover of Stilwell's 1972 co-authored book, The Child Who Walks Alone.
The bulk of this collection is comprised of the original typescript for McMurtry's essay, "Walter Benjamin at the Dairy Queen," which includes handwritten corrections by the author (circa 1984-1985). Correspondence includes one 1968 letter to McMurtry from Harper's magazine returning his manuscript, "Take My Saddle from the Wall: A Valediction," a letter from McMurtry to Bill Wittliff, and two to former Southwestern Writers Collection Curator, Dick Holland. These letters date from 1987-1991 and relate to the acquisition of this collection.
Books, including many foreign language editions of McMurtry's novels, have been cataloged separately.
Additional items relating to Larry McMurtry housed at the Wittliff Collections include the Lonesome Dove Television Miniseries Archives. This collection includes a typescript of McMurtry's 1972 screenplay, "Streets of Laredo," which later became the basis for his novel Lonesome Dove. Also present in the Southwestern Writers Collection is a copy of the novel Daughter of The Tejas by Ophelia Ray, which is reputed to have been written by McMurtry, a 12"x 30" oil painting by Shannon Stirnweis that served as cover art for the novel Lonesome Dove, and an acrylic painting by Bruce Wolfe for McMurtry's novel Texasville. Bill Wittliff's collection includes photographs of McMurtry and broadsides for McMurtry's In a Narrow Grave, (published by Wittliff's Encino Press.)
This series contains the original typescript for McMurtry's essay, "Walter Benjamin at the Dairy Queen," which includes handwritten corrections by the author, plus two photocopies.
Correspondence includes one 1968 letter to McMurtry from Harper's magazine returning his manuscript, "Take My Saddle from the Wall: A Valediction," a letter from McMurtry to Bill Wittliff, and two to former Wittliff Collection Curator, Dick Holland. These letters date from 1987-1991 and relate to the acquisition of this collection.
Five folders of works, financial papers, photographs, promotional kits, and clippings, 1984-1986 contain materials from the 1985 film "The Trip to Bountiful." The collection highlights the filming of the movie and includes the screenplay and stage-play (both signed by writer Horton Foote), a copy of the budget, the main titles, photographs taken during the filming, press kits, a long press book giving background on the film, and clippings pertaining to the movie.
These papers are comprised of the handwritten drafts of Goldbarth's book of poetry, Different Fleshes, winner of the 1980 Voertman Poetry award from the Texas Institute of Letters. This material, in two spiral bound notebooks, also includes several loose sheets and one newspaper clipping dated 1978.
Seven folders of works, published materials, photographs, correspondence, cards, and programs highlight the work of A.C. Greene. The collection has been divided into three series: Works (1967, 1969, 1973, undated), Photographs (1968), and Cards and Programs (1969, undated). The bulk of the collection consists of manuscripts collected by Bill Wittliff. Multiple drafts of the essay "Paisano" are included in one folder, following the work from annotated typewritten draft to television script to published work. Also of note are screenplays that Greene adapted from his books The Last Captive and The Santa Claus Bank Robbery. The collection includes published magazine articles, photographs, and cards and programs relating to Greene.
This collection includes camera equipment, a small portfolio of Bones' early work, color and black and white topographical photographs taken in Texas and New Mexico, page proofs, a poster and flyer advertising his books, and an edition of New Mexico magazine containing his photograph.
The bulk of this archive was acquired through Bill and Sally Wittliff, who purchased the material in an estate sale in 1985. (See Richard Holland's article in Corners of Texas cited above for a fuller description of the acquisition.) Dobie had already donated much of his library and papers to the University of Texas at Austin. The material at Texas State was what remained in his Austin house at the time of his death in 1964. It is divided into five series: Works, Personal, Bertha McKee Dobie and Edgar Kincaid Papers, Artifacts, and Newspaper Clippings. The series contain drafts of Dobie's posthumous books, research material, drafts of newspaper columns, magazine articles, lectures, transcriptions of radio broadcasts, correspondence, photographs of family and friends, property deeds, income tax records, personal items (pipes, clothes, a favorite chair), wills, and clippings about Dobie as well as articles, clippings and photographs that had belonged to Bertha McKee Dobie and/or Edgar Kincaid.
The first subseries, Books, contains drafts, galleys, research notes and clippings, photographs, correspondence, captions, typescripts and a record album of Dobie's books. Also included are files on posthumous books compiled by Dobie's wife Bertha.
The second subseries is entitled Research Material. The research files include correspondence, bibliographical notes, articles, clippings, pictures, and quotes on the Southwestern themes Dobie explored. Subjects covered are animals, Southwestern customs, Texas heroes, Southwestern characters, hunting, tall tales, cooking and treasure hunting. Files of old maps and guidebooks document research trips made to Mexico including the 1933 trip to Saltillo with Henry Nash Smith.
Fellow University of Texas English professor Stith Thompson invited Dobie to join the Texas Folklore Society in 1915. The third subseries contains documents relating to his involvement in the organization. Dobie claimed he had never heard of the word folklore before. "If Stith Thompson hadn't said folklore to me . . . I don't know where in the devil I'd be today. (Tinkle 37) Dobie succeeded Thompson in 1922 as secretary-editor of the society's publications. He revitalized the society after it had become moribund during World War I, and he pushed it in a direction independent of the American Folklore Society. Dobie resigned as editor in 1943, when he left Texas to teach a year in Cambridge, England, but he continued as a participant in the society and his influence remains strong to this date.
The fourth subseries is entitled Newspaper Columns. Dobie first worked for a newspaper, the San Antonio Express, the summer after graduation from Southwestern in 1910. In 1914, he reported for the Galveston Tribune to earn extra money during a summer break from teaching at the University of Texas. In September 1939, Dobie began a syndicated newspaper column which he continued writing until the year of his death. His columns touched on a wide range of areas from current events and postwar Europe to folk tales and Texas characters. This subseries contains drafts of these columns. It also contains his file on the Alamo memorial sculpture controversy, which includes articles, interviews and correspondence. In 1937, the sculptor Pompeo Coppini was commissioned to create a monument to the fighters at the Alamo. Dobie vehemently took issue with the choice and expressed his views publicly by radio and newspaper.
The next subseries, Magazine Articles, includes the typescript of Dobie's first nationally published article for The Country Gentleman. The subsequent magazine articles cover various topics of interest to Dobie--cowboy life, Mexico, herbs, animals, reading, literature, etc.
Dobie became a popular lecturer as his books and articles on Southwestern ways gained national attention. The sixth subseries, Lectures and Speeches, includes notes on his speaking itinerary and covers his lectures on folklore, the Southwest and his experience as a Texan in England.
The final subseries has been titled Radio and Television. Dobie began broadcasting from the radio in 1932 with five-minute talks on the program "Longhorn Luke and His Cowboys." His radio programs and later television appearances covered the same subjects as his books and articles but the audio/visual aspects of the technologies allowed him to enhance the tales with live narration. The files contain a letter from his original radio sponsor, fan letters, and scripts.
The first subseries within this group of records, Family, contains a family photo album of mostly 19th century photographs of the Dobie and Byler families. Also included are the family bible from which Dobie's father read nightly and two of Dobie's own bibles given to him as gifts: one in 1905 from W. H. Butler and the other from his family in 1908.
The next set of files, entitled Graduate Education, contains class notes, the Masters thesis, theater programs and newspaper clippings from Dobie's Columbia University days. Despite Dobie's statement in Some Part of Myself that he destroyed a "kind of diary" he kept at the time because he "was so disgusted with the sentimentality in it" (185), there is a diary herein which for the most part describes his reactions to the New York theater.
In the third subseries, World War I Service, is found Dobie's army uniform, his shipping trunk, and military documents. Dobie enlisted in the Army May 17,1917 but was not shipped to Europe until October of 1918 shortly before the armistice of November 11. He never saw action but was able to use the opportunity to see something of Europe.
The next subseries, Teaching, contains grade books, teaching notes, lectures and diaries. It includes the notes from the lectures Dobie gave at Cambridge University in 1943.
Household Records and Personal Effects, the fifth subseries, contains property deeds, income tax records, invoices, mementos, personal items, addresses, wills, and notes. There is information on Dobie's homes, lifestyle and interests. The file named Workfiles and mementos contains miscellaneous envelopes, empty files, clippings and articles including Walter Prescott Webb's "The Search for William E. Hinds."
The next subseries contains correspondence. The majority of these letters are from Dobie to Bertha detailing his experiences in the army. Other letters to Bertha were written during various separations and discuss family, personal matters and Dobie's writings. They also mention Dobie's work with the Texas Folklore Society and his various research interests. The other major correspondence in this subseries is the letters of Roy Bedichek. Bedichek was director of the University of Texas Interscholastic League by profession but a student of nature by predilection. Bedichek often met with Dobie and historian Walter Prescott Webb for barbecue or at Barton Springs swimming pool in Austin to argue and philosophize. Prodded by Dobie and Webb, Bedichek became a writer of lyrical books on nature at the advanced age of 70. His letters discuss animal stories, politics (especially Texas politics), and mutual friends--University of Texas president Homer Rainey, Folksong collector John Lomax, political commentator John Henry Faulk, Western historian Henry Nash Smith, Walter Prescott Webb and Texas Folklore Society editors Mody Boatright and Wilson Hudson. Also included here are some letters from Isabel Gaddis, a friend who collaborated with Dobie on I'll Tell You A Tale, published in 1960.
Dobie died on September 18, 1964. The seventh subseries, Dobie's Death, contains the many telegrams and condolence cards sent to his widow along with funeral arrangements, the memorial record book and newspaper clippings about Dobie's accomplishments.
The eighth subseries, Writings about Dobie, is a collection of clippings, articles and papers on J. Frank Dobie gathered by his wife Bertha and his nephew, Edgar Kincaid. A few of the clippings concern Roy Bedichek or Edgar Kincaid. There also is a file on the Paisano Fellowship, the grant set up as a memorial to Dobie. His beloved ranch west of Austin was deeded to the University of Texas, which, along with the Texas Institute of Letters, manages a fellowship for selected Texas writers and artists. The award enables the writer or artist to spend six months on the ranch with a stipend in order to work on projects free from distraction. The first fellowship was granted in 1967 to Billy Porterfield.
Photographs, the final subseries contains photographs of Dobie, his wife Bertha, and their family and friends. There are publicity photos, photos taken on Dobie's research trips, and pictures clipped for research. Included are photos of Dobie and Bertha on their ranch or entertaining friends.
This series contains family letters to Bertha. The bulk of the correspondence is from her mother and mentions Dobie, his work, and his trips to Mexico. The letters also discuss Bertha's family, health and gardening. Included too are Bertha's gardening columns, and various sundry clippings, pamphlets and articles that she collected about Dobie and other matters of interest to her. Edgar Kincaid's family records and photographs of Kincaid at a book signing for The Bird Life of Texas are also present.
This series contains personal items that belonged to J. Frank Dobie, including clothing, toiletries, a ceramic roadrunner figurine, pipes, a typewriter, and a Dictaphone machine.
This series is housed in one oversized box and contains unprocessed original newspaper clippings collected by J. Frank Dobie.
The Rick Bass papers are comprised of manuscripts, galley proofs, notes, clippings, correspondence, legal papers, photographs and artifacts, 1924 to the present, relating to Bass' career as a novelist. Series include Works, Clippings and Reviews, Writing Related Files, Environmental Concerns, General Correspondence, and Personal. The largest of these series is the first, Works, which is comprised mainly of photocopied pages from Bass' handwritten notebooks which serve as the forum for Bass' ideas and notes.
This series surveys Bass' works from his earliest published pieces to his more recent articles and stories. In this series are manuscripts for The Watch, Oil Notes, The Ninemile Wolves, Winter: Notes from Montana, as well as notes for The Deer Pasture and short stories published in Platte River. The series also contains numerous short stories and essays, research notes, journal notes, reviews, and interviews. Most of the non-fiction manuscripts relate in some way to Bass' intense relationship with nature and concern for the environment, although they also concern his writing career.
The bulk of this series is comprised of photocopied pages from the notebooks in which Bass does most of his writing, and also contains manuscript pages, typed drafts, computer disks, galley proofs, and published pieces, many of which are heavily annotated. Not all of the manuscripts are complete; many lack pages, while others contain only Bass' notes or are partially finished. It is important to note that the backs of his papers often contain notes to other manuscripts, correspondence, and other information, since Bass recycles paper by using both sides. Some notes are on scraps, and in one case, a note is written on a piece of bark. Sent to the Wittliff Collections in small pieces at a time, the manuscripts have been arranged alphabetically by the processor.
Materials in this series include clippings and reviews regarding works published by Bass, and have been arranged chronologically.
These files are comprised of editorial correspondence regarding Bass' writing and its publication, correspondence and ephemera related to author readings and booksignings, course description and coursework related to fiction and non-fiction college writing courses taught by Bass, audiocassette tapes and a full transcript of an interview with Scott Slovic regarding Bass' writing career.
Flyers, clippings, and correspondence in this series include letters to and from Bass regarding environmental legislation and policy.
Subjects in this series include oil and mineral leases and real estate transactions made by Rick Bass (1987-1988), while later correspondence is more general in nature, not related specifically to works by Bass.
This series is comprised of memorabilia such as dog medical records and hunting licenses, travel documents, childhood and adult photographs of Bass, family papers and news clippings.
This series includes personal effects of Bass such as a chainsaw blade, notes he wrote on a piece of tree back, two Walkman radios, and two old license plates.
The collection contains song lyrics, screenplays, letters, concert programs, tour itineraries, posters, articles, clippings, personal effects, promotional items, souvenirs, and financial records. There are examples of Nelson's talent as a songwriter, material reflecting his success as a concert artist, and memorabilia. The collection contains documentation on how the funds collected through Farm Aid were used and on Nelson's troubles with the IRS. Most of the material was collected by Bill Wittliff, a friend of Willie Nelson's who wrote or co-wrote three of the films in which Willie Nelson starred: Honeysuckle Rose (1980), Barbarosa (1982), and Red Headed Stranger (1986).
This series is composed of material relating to Nelson's career as a singer, songwriter and performer. It contains Nelson's own song compositions, scripts for possible movie projects, letters to Nelson suggesting songs and other projects, and Nelson's tour itineraries. Of interest are Nelson's handwritten lyrics, some scribbled on paper scraps, napkins, and hotel stationery.
And So Will You My Love
Any Old Arms Won't Do
Are You Ever Coming Home
Are You Sure
Both Ends of the Candle
Cold Empty Space
Congratulations (sheet music)
Country Willie
Crazy (sheet music)
Darkness on the Face of the Earth
December Day
Did I Ever Love You
Don't Say Love or Nothing
The End of Understanding
Everything but You
Funny How Time Slips Away
Good Times (sheet music)
Half a Man (sheet music)
Healing Hands of Time (sheet music)
Hello Fool
Hello Walls (sheet music)
Hold Me Tighter
Home is where You're Happy
Home Motel
How Does it Feel
I Didn't Sleep a Wink
I Don't Feel Anything
I Gotta Get Drunk
I Just Can't Let You Say Goodbye
I Never Cared For YouI Should Have Kissed Her More
I Want a Girl
It's Not For Me to Understand
I've Seen All the World I Care to See
Jimmy's Road
Just For the Moment
Kneel at the Feet of Jesus
The Local Memory
The Message
More than One Way to Cry
A New Way To Cry
One Day at a Time
One In a Row
Our Love of Yesterday
Pages
Permanently Lonely
Pretty Paper (sheet music)
She Always Comes Back to Me
Sometimes She Lies
Sorrow Tearing Me Apart
Any Old Arms Won't Do
Are You Ever Coming Home
Are You Sure
Both Ends of the Candle
Cold Empty Space
Cry Softly Darling
Darkness on the Face of the Earth
The End of Understanding
Everybody's Baby
Face of a Fighter
The Ghost
Go Away
Happiness Lives Next Door
Heartaches of a Fool
Hello Darling
Hello Wall, No. 2
I Can Still Reach Yesterday
I Can't Find the Time
I Didn't Sleep a Wink
I Feel Sorry for Him
I Gotta Get Drunk
I Just Don't Understand
I Just Stopped By
I Let My Mind Wander
I Want a Girl
I Should Have Kissed Her More
I Write You Letters
In God's Eyes
It's not for me to Understand
I've Just Destroyed the World (I'm Living In)
Just for the Moment
Kneel at the Feet of Jesus
Let My Heart be Broken
Little Things
The Local Memory
Lonely Little Mansion
Mean Old Greyhound Bus
The Message
Mr. Record Man
More Than One Way to Cry
One Step Beyond
Opportunity To Cry
Our Chain of Love
Over the Waves
The Part Where I Cry
Pride Wins Again
Ridgetop
Sad Songs and Waltzes
Save Your Tears
She Always Comes Back to Me
She Might Call
She's Still Gone
Slow Down Old World
Some Other Time
Sorrow Tearing Me Apart
Suffer in Silence
Take My Word
Talk to Me
Thanks Again
There's a Way
There's Gonna be Love (In My House)
There's No Tomorrow in Sight
They're All the Same
Things to Remember
Three Days
To Make a Long Story Short (She's Gone)
Touch Me
Twice the Man
Two Different Roads
Undo the Right
Waiting Time
Wanted: One Mother
What Do You Think of Her Now
Where My House Lives
Where Were You Yesterday
Who Do I Know in Dallas
Within Your Crowd
You Left a Long Long Time Ago
You'll Always Have Someone
You Wouldn't Cross the Street (To Say Goodbye)
Your Country Boy
Lyrics:
Bloody Mary Morning
Blue Rock Montana
Come on Home
Denver
Devil in a Sleeping Bag
The Electric Horseman
The Genuine Healer of Time
Goin' Home
A Good Hearted Woman
Heaven and Hell
If You Really Loved Me
I'm a Memory
Let Me Be a Man
Me and Paul
No Love Around
Phases and Stages
Pick Up the Tempo
Precious Memories
Run Jody Run
Shotgun Willie
These Are Difficult Times
Time of the Preacher
Wake me When It's Over
What Do You Want Me to Do
Where Do You Stand
Where's the Snow
Why are You Picking on Me
Will You Remember
You Can't Get There from Here
You Ought to Hear me Crying
This series contains posters, programs, flyers, product tie-ins, photos, film pressbooks, articles, clippings, T-shirts, and jackets. The material provides a general picture of the marketing done for Nelson and his band. The product tie-ins with such brands as Wrangler jeans and Country Time lemonade make use of Nelson's popularity and country image.
One file holds a program of the Music Industry Division of the United Jewish Appeal Federation 21st Anniversary dinner honoring Willie Nelson with invitation to Bill Wittliff.
This series is made up of personal effects--running shoes, bandannas, sunglasses, and t-shirts. Some of objects are souvenirs or promotions for concerts and Nelson's benefit project, Farm Aid.
In 1985, Nelson, alarmed by reports of failing family farms, decided, with the help of other performers, to stage concert benefits. The proceeds were to be channeled to provide assistance to needy agricultural families. Bill Wittliff served as an adviser to the project. His wife, Sally Wittliff, recommended the Massachusetts social activist, Carolyn Mugar, to administer the project. The first Farm Aid concert was held September 25, 1985 in Champaign, Illinois. By 1995, Nelson had done seven Farm Aid concerts the proceeds of which provided much appreciated help to thousands of farmers in the form of food pantries, seminars, scholarship programs and grants. The files of this series belonged to Bill Wittliff and contain material on the concerts and the administration of the funds by the Farm Aid organization based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Included are clippings, correspondence, annual reports, newsletters from grassroots farm organizations, publications from various state departments of agriculture, concert memorabilia, grant proposals, and applications for funding.
This series contains a statement of financial condition dated December 31, 1984 and documents for the auction of Willie Nelson's holdings by the IRS in 1991. The documents provide the rules of sale and an inventory of the items for auction. Clippings provide news accounts of Nelson's problems with the IRS and the efforts of Nelson's friends and fans to help him.
The collection contains a copy of the screenplay for the 1975 novel Country Music, a copy of a typescript of the 1989 novel Buffalo Nickel, and an issue of the Poseidon Press Spring Selections 1989 containing an excerpt from Buffalo Nickel. The material was donated through Bill Wittliff to whom Smith had submitted these copies for comments.
The Robert Flynn papers consist of a script, programs, drafts, notes, photographs, articles, military documents and correspondence. A copy of Flynn's script Journey to Jefferson is included along with programs from the 1964 European tour of the play. There is a typescript of Flynn's first novel, North to Yesterday, with related notes and letters from the publisher covering editor's comments, suggestions for revision, title changes, foreign publication, sales and reviews. Also present are galleys and plate proofs from In the House of the Lord. Flynn had served as a Marine in Korea and he covered Vietnam in 1971 for True Magazine. This collection contains material from his tour, including a guide to Vietnam and a pamphlet on the operation of an M16 rifle; combat photographs; Flynn's marine I.D. and dogtag, his True Magazine press I. D. cards and ration card; Vietnamese money, telegrams, newsletters, reports, Flynn's handwritten notes and a camouflage uniform.
This series is comprised of material relating to Flynn's play Journey to Jefferson. Documents include a typescript draft of the play and various play programs.
This series contains documents pertaining to Flynn's novels North to Yesterday, In the House of Our Lord, and The Last Klick. Also included in this series are materials related to Flynn's published memoir A Personal War in Vietnam. Included are various draft typescripts, galleys, and plate proofs.
Included in this series are materials from Flynn's tenure as a war correspondent for True magazine. This series is comprised of handwritten notes, clippings, military records, Vietnamese money, and other related ephemera.
The collection contains posters, woodblocks and woodblock prints all by Barbara Whitehead. The prints include illustrations of works such as The Good Old Boys by Elmer Kelton, Clem Maverick by R. G. Vliet and The Grands by Carolyn Osborn. See also the Jan Reid papers, Accession number 92-136 for the bookjacket from Redneck Rock designed by Barbara Whitehead, and Accession No. 93-029 and 93-190 for the files on The Grands illustrated by Barbara Whitehead. For further information on the Whiteheads, see The Grands by Carolyn Osborn especially the introduction by Richard Holland and William D. Wittliff and the Encino Press, a bibliography compiled by Gould Whaley.
The papers contain notes, drafts and clippings. The material demonstrates Hearon's working methods--background research, sketched out ideas, revisions. The clippings contain book reviews, interviews and some biographical information.
The Bill Wittliff papers document the book publishing, photography, and screenwriting and filmmaking aspects of Mr. Wittliff's various professional and personal pursuits, ranging in date from 1968-1995, and including the following formats: correspondence, typescript drafts, bibliographies, woodcut blocks, illustrations, photographs, screenplay drafts, film storyboards and other production materials. See series descriptions within the container list for more detailed information.
The Encino Press file contains posters designed by Bill Wittliff and printed by Encino Press. There are original illustrations by John Groth for John Graves' The Last Running. The manuscript for Larry L. King's That Terrible Night That Santa Got Lost In The Woods is included along with correspondence, editing and original pen and ink scratchboard drawings by the Pulitzer Prize winning cartoonist, Pat Oliphant. Also contains manuscripts submitted to Wittliff for publication and the manuscript and galleys of the 1989 Encino Press bibliography by Gould Whaley, Jr. entitled William D. Wittliff and the Encino Press.
Original carved and inked woodblocks created by Barbara Whitehead commissioned by the Encino Press. These blocks have been scanned and printed on plain paper for ease of access. See print-outs and accompanying zip-disks in box 877. Print-outs are annotated with either a title taken from the block or simply a descriptive cataloger-assigned title; these are the titles listed in this quide. Print-outs are also annotated with the titles of books in which the images appeared, such as: Deep Like the Rivers (1969), Many Texans (1969), Living Texas (1969), Texas Folk Medicine (1970), Growing Up in Texas (1972), Texas Wild Game Cookbook (1972), and Peter Arbiter (1973).
Manuscripts, articles, clippings, letters, prints, broadsides, and drawings of Southwestern writers and artists collected by Wittliff. Includes Steve Barthelme, Thomas Hart Benton, Joe Frantz, John Graves, Carl Hertzog, Bud Shrake, Bob Wade, and Walter Prescott Webb.
Glen Alyn; Steve Barthelme; Thomas Hart Benton; Bill Broyles; Jack Canson; Carlos W. Castaneda; Madison Cooper; J. Frank Dobie; Robert Duval; Steve Forbis; Joe Frantz; Larry Goodwyn; John Graves; Jim Hamm; Carl Hertzog; Tony Hillerman
Larry L. King; Tom Lea; David Lindsey; John A. Lomax; Al Lowman; Beverly Lowry; James McMurtry; Willie Nelson; Ancel Nunn; George Sessions Perry; Ellen Schulz Quillen; Bud Shrake; Henderson R. Shuffler; Terry Southern; Texas Hatters; Charles Phillip Vaughn; Bob Wade; Frank Wardlaw; Walter Prescott Webb
The Texas Institute of Letters was organized in 1936 during the year of the Texas Centennial for the purpose of the "promotion and recognition of literature in Texas." It evolved into an organization which met annually and awarded literary prizes to works by Texas authors. Bill Wittliff joined the TIL in 1969 and was president from 1974 to 1978. He wrote and published a history of the Institute, The Texas Institute of Letters, 1936 - 1966. He and Encino Press had received awards from TIL beginning with his book design for an SMU Press printing of a lecture by Harry S. Truman. Wittliff designed and printed many TIL programs. Clippings about TIL are also found here along with the first copy of Texas Monthly signed by authors who were at the 1973 TIL meeting, and a cassette of the 1977 TIL meeting.
This sub-series contains Wittliff's collection of book catalogs, exhibition catalogs, printing pamphlets and historical society brochures. Invitations to readings, art and literature shows, directories, flyers, articles, clippings and notices are also present.
In 1996, Bill and Sally Wittliff established the Wittliff Gallery - now the Southwestern & Mexican Photography Collection, and his photography was transferred to that collection
The Screenplays are arranged chronologically according to when they were written. The order does not reflect the order in which the films were released. The date following the title in parentheses is the release date. Photographs, film, and videotape may not be duplicated without permission from the Wittliff estate.
A western starring Gary Busey and Willie Nelson. This series contains drafts of the script, costumes, photographs by Wittliff, the script supervisor's files, the editing and sound notes, publicity, distribution, and clippings of reviews and interviews. The archive also contains the dailies on film reels and a 16mm print of the film.
"My second attempt at writing a script--but it turned out to be only a collection of episodes based on my father's funeral and some of my high school experiences. So I shelved it after one draft." Bill Wittliff, December 22, 1988
Thaddeus Rose and Eddie was the first script written by Wittliff to be produced. The working title was "Sledge and Eddie," and some of the early drafts are titled as such. Wittliff's agent brought the script to the attention of producers Rod Sheldon and Dan Paulson. The TV movie was directed by Texas director Jack Starrett and starred Bo Hopkins and Johnny Cash. The film aired on the CBS network Friday Night Movies, February 24, 1978 to generally favorable reviews. The production brought Wittliff to the attention of producer/director Francis Ford Coppola who hired Wittliff to work on the script for The Black Stallion (1979). Wittliff credited the Coppola job for providing him validation as a screenwriter. This series contains drafts of the script, production forms, publicity and reviews. Also contains the drafts and galleys for the paperback Pinnacle Book based on the teleplay.
A film loosely based on Wittliff's mother's life about a young, divorced mother of two sons working as a telephone operator in small-town Texas during World War II. Starring Sissy Spacek, Sam Shepard, and Eric Roberts. Early drafts are titled "Nita, Henry and Harry."
The film was eventually produced in 2013 starring Robert Duvall.
Final shooting script has original drawing by Wittliff and is autographed by Wittliff and Willie Nelson. Produced by Nelson and Wittliff. Directed by Wittliff. Script Supervisor Cate Hardman Roach. Film was edited in Wittliff's offices by Eric A. Williams and Stephen Purvis. Slides removed from original sleeves and put in archival sleeves. Marked original sleeves are in front of re-sleeved slides.
"This one got stuck between thinking and feeling. The best stuff (the old men, the feathered airplane, the Mask itself) come from cutting the subconscious loose. Much of the rest of the story is contrivance--that is to say, thought out. The two didn't mix." Bill Wittliff, February 24, 1989
Written and co-produced by Wittliff. Starred Jessica Lange and Sam Shepard. Wittliff began as director but was replaced by Richard Pearce. 1985, Lange won Academy Award nomination. The film received the Christopher Award. Kelly Asbury drew story boards for Wittliff when he was director. Publicity contains reviews, congratulations, studio press kit, publicity junket which began in New York because movie opened the 1984 New York Film festival, final report of the screening program, report of gross receipts and distribution costs.
This started as a rewrite of Pistoleers--"My first couple of drafts were set in New York City--then Crocodile Dundee came out and the studio asked me to reset the story in Washington, D. C. to avoid comparison. Against my better judgment I agreed to give it a try and the whole thing (meaning the writing) went downhill after that." Bill Wittliff, February 16, 1989. Includes notes by Wittliff's assistant at the time, Connie Todd.
Art department files have location photos, snaps of props, set designs, research articles, set building plans, newspaper mockups.
Art department files have location photos, snaps of props, set designs, research articles, set building plans, newspaper mockups.
6 part series, five of which aired August 1993 on CBS-TV.
Entertainment industry notebook gives suggestions on the media presentation of various social issues such as alcoholism, seat belts, tobacco, etc. Props file has drawings of gear by Brad Johnson. Continuity photos have photos from 1991 pilot mixed in.
The Sundance Institute for Film and Television was founded by Robert Redford to foster emerging talents, often found outside the mainstream of the traditional entertainment industry. For six years during the 1980s, Bill Wittliff served on the Board of Trustees for the Institute, working in particular on the Selection Committee. He also donated his time as a writer's mentor during the June Workshop at Sundance Resort near Provo, Utah and at the Writer's Workshop held during the January Sundance Film Festival.
Book manuscripts, screenplays, drafts, cartoons, clippings, correspondence, photographs, ephemera, sound recordings, and artifacts documenting Sublett's careers as a rock musician and writer. Many of the drafts of Sublett's writings include handwritten annotations by the author. Copies of certain letters to Richard Holland, former Curator of the Southwestern Writers Collection, have been retained when they shed light on Sublett's creative life.
This series, kept as a discrete group of materials by Sublett in his home, contains drafts of some of his short pieces for the Austin Chronicle, including The Nature of the Crime (1984), a piece never published but which prompted the Chronicle's editorial staff to urge Sublett to write a novel. The rest of the items relate to Rock Critic Murders: consent and release forms, an early title page design containing a saguaro cactus, and blurbs solicited from James Ellroy, Gerald Petievich, and Kinky Friedman.
Articles and stories appearing in the Austin Chronicle: "The Big Tape", "X-15: The 4-Track Walkman", and "Crying on the Shoulder of the Road" (November 24, 1983); "Traveling the Hardboiled Highway", record review: Madonna (March 23, 1984); "How to Make a Record" (November 30, 1984); "Martin Fender & the Flat-Top Kid", short piece on Raymond Chandler for a feature on mystery writers (December 13, 1985).
Contains a letter to Richard Holland explaining the sequence of Sublett's works; a 2nd draft of Rock Critic Murders, a first draft of the book which ultimately became Tough Baby entitled Blunt Instrument, and a completely-rewritten second draft of Tough Baby entitled The Big Hurt.
Contains a short note to Richard Holland describing Hale Storm as a first draft, and versions of Hey Joe, Rock Critic Murders, Pay the Devil, Hale Storm, Shadows in the Sun, (with Stephen Purvis), and two versions of In the West (with Stephen Purvis and Tom Huckabee).
Notes and drafts for History of the Texas Turnpike Authority.
Interviews, reviews, and notices documenting both Sublett's music career and his writing career.
Candid shots and publicity photos of Sublett and the Skunks.
Posters and postcards advertising the Skunks, Boiled in Concrete, a novel by Andrew Vachss, and a magazine cover for which Sublett modeled.
1 45-rpm record; 1 2-record set (with lyrics); 1 cassette representing the recorded output of the Skunks.
Artifacts from Sublett's musical career.
Correspondence, printed material, financial documentation, interviews, photographic material, legal documentation, notes, creative works, audio and video recordings, and machine-readable records, created and maintained by Bill Crawford and Joe Nick Patoski, document the research, production, and promotion processes of their co-authored biography, Stevie-Ray Vaughan: Caught in the Crossfire.
The collection consists of three main series, the Crawford Files, the Patoski Files, and the Audio and Video Materials Series. The Crawford Files and Patoski Files represent each author's individual research, production, and promotion for the book. Generally, the series representing one author will contain material created and maintained only by that author, although some overlap does occur, as the two authors collaborated closely on this project. Each author's differing methods of research and production are revealed by the structure and contents of their files, which are listed briefly in the Series Summary, following the Series Descriptions. The Audio and Video Materials Series was created for ease of access to this varied material, which was created and maintained by both authors. It includes interviews, musical performances, a recording of Stevie Ray Vaughan's funeral service and consists of formats such as cassette audiotapes, VHS videotapes, and CD-ROM audio discs.
Because this biography of Stevie Ray Vaughan was unauthorized, the authors did not have the cooperation of the Vaughan family, including his brother, Jimmie Vaughan, nor that of certain other key figures in Vaughan's life, including Tommy Shannon, Chris Layton, and Reece Wynans, of his band, Double Trouble. However, published interviews with these important figures do appear in this collection, complementing the original research done by the authors. This collection sheds a unique light on Stevie Ray Vaughan's life and musical career. At the same time, it documents the rise of the blues in the Austin music scene during the 1970s and 1980s, a time when progressive country artists, such as Willie Nelson, reigned supreme. Of particular note are the many interviews with Stevie Ray Vaughan's musical mentors and colleagues such as Buddy Guy, B.B. King, W.C. Clark, Ray Benson, Kim Wilson, Angela Strehli, and Antone's owner, Clifford Antone. Interviews with Stevie Ray Vaughan's longtime friend, Dale Bramhall, twin brother to Doyle Bramhall, Vaughan's closest songwriting partner and friend, lend important insights into the history of certain albums and certain periods of the late musician's life. Many of the interviews conducted for this project bring to light what had for years been stories held only among Austin musical enclaves. Also, bootleg recordings of Stevie Ray Vaughan performances dating back as far as 1975, and many candid and publicity photographs dating back to the mid-1970s, are of special interest. Inclusive dates range from 1964- 1995, with the bulk of the material dating from 1990-1993.
A special note on interviews in this collection: Not all interviews on audiotape have written transcripts, and conversely, not all transcripts are represented by audiotapes. Existing transcripts are filed with the series of the author who conducted the interview. The interview audiotapes themselves are simply listed in alphabetical order in Series III, each tape has been assigned a number, and when a transcript is available for a particular tape, its location (by box and folder) will be noted on this list.
Maintained by Bill Crawford, the Crawford Files constitute the bulk of the record group and reflect Crawford's original order. The records on the Research Materials subseries, 1994-1993, document the primary and secondary research of Stevie Ray Vaughan's life conducted largely by Bill Crawford. Included are a large quantity of interview transcripts and audiotapes, a copy of Stevie Ray Vaughan's death certificate, and Vaughan family genealogical material. Of special note are numerous published interview transcripts with the late musician himself. Material in the Book Production Material subseries documents the progress of the book's publication. Heavily edited manuscript drafts and page proofs comprise the majority of these records. This subseries also includes material relating to the selection of photographs to be used in the biography. There is almost no record in this series of public relations / advertising activities.
This listing refers to interviews conducted by Bill Crawford for which written transcripts and/or notes have been made. Box and folder numbers in this list refer to these transcripts and/or notes. Tape numbers in this list refer to the audiocassette tapes listed more fully in Series III.)
This includes clippings from newspaper and magazines regarding Stevie Ray Vaughan's career.
The Patoski Files, maintained by Joe Nick Patoski, are divided into the same subseries as the Crawford Files: Research Materials, and Book Production Materials. The cataloger has maintained as much of Patoski's original order as possible for this material, but imposed some additional degree of order in the interest of accessibility. The Research Materials, 1977-1993, include numerous interview transcripts and audiotapes, published books on the music industry with Patoski's notes. Notable interviewees include Kim Wilson, Clifford Antone, Double Trouble manager Chesley Millikin, W.C. Clark, Angela Strehli, Stevie Ray Vaughan's ex-wife "Lenny" Vaughan, Marc Benno and Dale Bramhall. Please note that Patoski's groupings for "General" and "Stevie Ray Vaughan" in this series both deal with Stevie Ray Vaughan specifically, despite their differing titles. The Production Materials subseries, 1984-1993, includes manuscript drafts and page proofs, but is strongest in public relations / advertising material related to reviews and book signings.
This listing refers to interviews conducted by Joe Nick Patoski for which written transcripts and/or notes have been made. Box and folder numbers in this list refer to these transcripts and/or notes. Tape numbers in this list refer to the audiocassette tapes listed more fully in Series III.
The Audio and Video Material Series includes recordings of interviews conducted by the authors for the Stevie Ray Vaughan biography, as well as earlier recordings of published interviews with Stevie Ray Vaughan and Jimmie Vaughan. Bootleg recordings of various Stevie Ray Vaughan bands, such as the Cobras and Double Trouble, are included in this series, ranging in date from 1975 to 1990, including Stevie Ray Vaughan's last performance. Also included in this series is an audio recording of Stevie Ray Vaughan's graveside funeral ceremony. Other material in this series includes various tributes to Stevie Ray Vaughan, and interviews with Crawford and Patoski regarding the publication of the biography, Stevie Ray Vaughan: Caught in the Crossfire. The bulk of the material in this series is in cassette audiotape format, with the remainder in VHS videotape, a 45-RPM single album, and CD-ROM disc formats.
Tokyo, Japan, 1985: Scuttlebuttin'/Say What!/Voodoo Chile (Slight Return)/ Cold Shot/ Couldn't Stand the Weather/ Tin Pan Alley/Dirty Pool/ Mary Had a Little Lamb/Lovestruck Baby/Texas Flood/ Lenny / Testify / 3rd Stone (cut)
Des Moines, Iowa, 8/30/1987: Scuttlebuttin' / Say What! / Lookin' Out the Window/Look at Little Sister / Mary Had a Little Lamb / King Bee /Sky Is Crying /
Superstitious
1) Part 2 of CBS Hawaiian Convention, March 20, 1984, with Jeff Beck and Angela Strehli
2) Austin Chronicle Music Awards with and without Thunderbirds, at Austin Opry House
3) BBC-TV's "Wired", February 7, 1988
4) Austin Chronicle Music Awards, 1983
5) Austin Chronicle Music Awards, March 19, 1990
6) Austin Chronicle Music Awards, Promo
7) Texas Tornados at Montreaux, 1991
Unidentified movie on Leadbelly, starring Roger Mobley, undated
"The Ten Count" short movie about an aspiring boxer, directed by Alan Madison, undated
Tribute to Jimi Hendrix including interviews with Eric Clapton and Mick Jagger,
as appeared on Bravo Television, undated
SRV and Double Trouble, Austin City Limits, show #913, February 28, 1984
SRV and Double Trouble, interview on Japanese television re Texas Flood album
SRV and Double Trouble, Saturday Night Live appearance, circa 1986, promoting Soul to Soul album, host: Mick Jagger.
SRV and Double Trouble interviewed on television show "Studio Sounds" re touring with Jeff Beck and other topics, circa mid-1980s.
SRV solo appearance on television show "MTV Unplugged", circa late 1980s.
SRV and Jimmie Vaughan interviewed re: the recording of the Family Style album, including footage of the brothers in the studio, and with producer Nile Rogers, early 1990.
MTV News Report tribute to SRV, including video for Superstitious, concert performance of Voodoo Chile, and more, August 1990.
Video for song "Tick Tock" off Family Style album.
"Little Wing" documentary of SRV's life and influences, directed by Phil Tuckett, for Sony Records, 1992.
The Computer Diskettes Series consists of master and back-up copies of production files for Stevie Ray Vaughan: Caught in the Crossfire, all on 3 ½" floppy diskettes. Includes one diskette of Stevie Ray Vaughan correspondence and one diskette of transcripts of interviews.
Correspondence, drafts, typescripts, photographs, scrapbooks, artifacts, ephemera and clippings constitute this collection. The bulk of this material was created by Elithe Hamilton Kirkland, although a small amount was created or maintained by her son, James Beal, the donor of this collection. (For example, documents related to Ms. Kirkland's funeral, located in box 446, folder 7, were donated by Mr. Beal.) Drafts, notes, and correspondence in this collection document Kirkland's writing process, including published and unpublished works. Many working drafts of Kirkland's published work, as well as a wealth of unpublished poems, songs, plays, short stories, and essays are included. For her published works, working drafts are accompanied by notes, publicity material, and correspondence, rounding out the evolution of these works. For much of the correspondence related to and filed with specific published works, the carbon copies of Kirkland's letters are interfiled.
Her personal history is documented as well, through formats including awards, photographs, correspondence, scrapbooks, and resumes. Highlights include long runs of correspondence between Kirkland and her mother, her son, and her husband, Dr. R.D. Kirkland. Photographs document her life from childhood through her last years, including colleagues, friends, favorite dogs, and family members.
Kirkland's interest in J. Frank Dobie is also well represented here. Her first contact with Dobie is identified as a college paper written for Dobie's graduate class at UT Austin (see box 15 folder 6a). Her novel, Heather, For Luck, is a tribute to the Texas author, and the research and drafts for this book are located in the Books series. Correspondence with Dobie, articles written by and about Dobie, books inscribed to Kirkland from Dobie, can all be found in the J. Frank Dobie series. Kirkland helped develop the first Dobie Day, celebrated at Southwestern University, in Georgetown, TX; her research and correspondence related to this effort are also located in the J. Frank Dobie series.
Resumes, career summaries, autobiographical sketches are located in this series, as are school scrapbooks and Kirkland's booklet of favorite clippings and poems. Kirkland's extensive notes and subject files are included in this Personal series, recording the breadth of her interests. Material related to her many speaking engagements is also included.
Arranged in alphabetical order by book title, this subseries includes research material, notes, outlines, drafts, correspondence, publicity documents, and drafts of stage and film adaptations.
Texas State Historical Association, Austin, TX, April 1955
Nicholson Memorial Library, Garland, TX April 1967
Lecture and Harriet Sketch, Kyle, TX, October 1967
Westwood Country Club, undated
Unidentified location, November 1967
Arranged in alphabetical order by the name of the musical, this subseries includes drafts, notes and correspondence documenting the creation and production of Kirkland's musicals.
Material in this subseries includes essays written for college classes, and articles written for newspapers. Some published, many are unpublished. They are arranged in alphabetical order, with a special section for Kirkland's freshman year college papers.
The Advantage of Reading Historical Novels
A History Recitation in a Rural School
How I Write My Freshman Themes
The Most Thrilling Time I Ever Had
My Acquaintance With Hard Luck
My Dogs
A Serious Problem
Vandals and Vandalism
What I Should Do If I Had Lots of Money and All the Time I Needed
Although Kirkland never officially published her poetry on its own, it appears in her novels and short stories. For many years, her Christmas cards featured her Christmas poems which are listed here in chronological order by year. Also of particular interest is a one-of-a- kind handmade booklet of Kirkland's war poems written for World War II soldiers. Poems listed with quotation marks represent the first line of untitled poems.
An Army of Dads
Fighting Men
For Our Homes (aka Back Home)
Freedom From Fear
Freedom From Want
The Friend
A Girl's Picture
Hit 'Em Again Harder!
I Saw the Flag
The Kid
A Mother's Prayer
Texans On The Alert!
We Shall Not Fear
The Wife's Letters
Strengthen Thy Heart (Book of poems dedicated to the men who work and fight in the service of their country to defend the peace of their homes.)
Poems include:
We Shall Not Fear!
Fighting Man's Prayer
The Friend
The Kid
An Army of Dads
A Mother's Prayer
Arranged in alphabetical order by the name of the series or show, these scripts date from Kirkland days at UT Austin's Radio House, circa 1940-1947. Typescripts and working drafts are included, as well as some photographs of the Radio House staff, including J. Frank Dobie. Of particular interest is the series entitled "Guardians of Freedom", which includes documents related to the Peck Woodside story Kirkland covered in Mexico.
This subseries includes detailed documentation on the creation of Kirkland's short stories "The Disappearance of Widow Ellen", "Peck Woodside", and "Leet's Christmas". Also included are drafts of many incomplete short stories.
Kirkland wrote songs which appeared in her short stories and musicals, as well as many which have not appeared in any of her works. Her songs are arranged here in alphabetical order, and typically include one draft of the song only.
This small subseries includes drafts of the 1953 script "Seminole Bill's Lost Mine", developed from a series Kirkland worked on with J. Frank Dobie, called "The Unfenced World".
Material relating to Kirkland's personal life and interests are divided into several subseries: awards; biographical notes; clippings; correspondence; J. Frank Dobie material; notes; photographs; speeches; subject files; and speeches.
Awards (1953-1987) Kirkland won many awards during her lifetime, and was inducted into the Texas Women's Hall of Fame by Gov. Bill Clements in 1987. This subseries includes correspondence, photographs, and ephemera related to these honors. Awards are listed in alphabetical order.
Biographical Notes / Career Summaries (1910-1991, undated) Resumes and other lists of Kirkland's accomplishments, degrees and certificates, scrapbooks of favorite sayings, and small amount of legal documents related to family issues are included in this subseries. Also included is material added to Kirkland's collection by her son, James Beal, which includes information regarding Kirkland's funeral service. This material is arranged in chronological order.
Clippings (1934-1991. undated) These general clippings pertain to Kirkland's publications and public appearances, and are arranged in chronological order.
Correspondence (1920-1991, undated) Letters are arranged alphabetically by the last name of the correspondent, and relate to both personal and professional subjects. While correspondence most closely related to a specific work is filed with that work, more general material can be found here. Family correspondence, including letters between Kirkland and her parents dating back to 1924 are included, as well as letters between Kirkland and her husband, Dr. R.D. Kirkland. Fan letters, letters from friends and colleagues, and general business letters are also included here.
J. Frank Dobie Material (1944-1976, undated) This subseries documents Kirkland's long- standing interest in and friendship with J. Frank Dobie, whom she first met while a graduate student at UT Austin. Correspondence with Mr. Dobie, clippings of articles of and by Dobie, and books by Dobie inscribed to Kirkland, comprise the bulk of this group. Also included is Kirkland's research and correspondence related to the first "Dobie Day", a celebration she helped create to honor Dobie.
Notes (undated) Handwritten notes related to general topics and to Kirkland's dreams appear in this subseries, many on note cards filed according to Kirkland's own subject scheme. Topics include Texas history, land use, specific people.
Photographic Material (1910-1991, undated) Items in this subseries have been arranged in chronological order by decades, and represent Kirkland's childhood through her last years. Many members of her family, favorite dogs, and close friends are represented here.
Speeches (ca. 1940-1991, undated) Correspondence and publicity material related to speeches made by Kirkland, including drafts of several speeches, but not all. Many of these speeches were given at small town public libraries, and include photographs. This subseries also includes documents related to the literary speaking tour Kirkland participated in called "Texas Voices", a celebration of the Texas Sesquicentennial in 1986.
Subjects (1936-1991, undated) These files of clippings and notes collected by Kirkland document her wide ranging interests, from Colt Revolvers to Numerology to the Texas Institute of Letters.
Artifacts and Oversized Materials Small carved animals, horseshoes, a Texas shaped bowl and a typewriter as well as larger drafts, photographs, and signed poems make up this subseries.
This collection of correspondence, photographs, and two interviews lends an insight into Katherine Anne Porter's relationship to her home state of Texas in the last years of her life. Correspondence with Dr. Roger L. Brooks of Howard Payne University in Brownwood, Texas, documents Porter's interest in returning to Texas and visiting her mother's gravesite. While these 10 letters and 2 telegrams hardly comprise the bulk of this collection, they shed light on Ms. Porter's relationship to Texas during this time of her life. Correspondence from other writers and literary figures to Dr. Brooks regarding Ms. Porter's work represents the status Ms. Porter enjoyed towards the end of her life nationally, internationally, as well as within Texan literary circles. The bulk of the collection is comprised of these letters from other writers to Dr. Brooks. A lengthy interview with Ms. Porter in the early 1970s also gives a unique view into her definitions of art, religion, her methods of writing, and more. Also included in this collection is Dr. Brooks' collection of Katherine Anne Porter books signed and inscribed by the author. Dr. Brooks' personal copies of periodicals in which Ms. Porter's stories and articles appeared have been cataloged separately. Dates for this collection range from 1898-1977, bulk 1972-1977.
Amis, Kingsley (December 3, 1975)
Anderson, Robert (December 2, 1975)
Auchincloss, Louis S. (December 9, 1975)
Baldwin, Faith (June 26, 1976, and undated)
Barth, John (December 2, 1975)
Beckett, Samuel (November 4, 1975)
Boyle, Kay (November 24, 1975)
Bradbury, Ray (December 3, 1975)
Bristow, Gwen (January 27, 1976)
Brooks, Cleanth (December 27, 1975)
Brooks, Gwendolyn (November 22, 1975)
Burgess, Anthony (February 23, 1976)
Burnett, W.R. (February 2, 1976)
Caldwell, Erskine (November 11, 1975)
Calisher, Hortense (February 17, 1976)
Chase, Anya Seton (January 7, 1976)
Cheever, John (January 19, 1976)
Ciardi, John (November 16, 1975)
Condon, Richard (December 2, 1975)
Cowley, Malcolm (August 31, 1975)
Daiches, David (December 9, 1975)
DeVries, Peter (December 10, 1975)
Eberhart, Richard (December 12, 1975)
Edmonds, Walter D. (November 16, 1975)
Fadiman, Clifton (December 8, 1975)
Fast, Howard (January 19, 1976)
Gardner, Isabella (April 2, 1976)
Garfield, Brian (December 12, 1975)
Givner, Joan (August 29, 1977 and September 20, 1977)
Gold, Herbert (December 10, 1975)
Grau, Shirley Ann (October 7, 1975 and January 2, 1976)
Gunn, Thom (December 6, 1975)
Guthrie, A.B., Jr. (November 20, 1975)
Hardwick, Elizabeth (undated)
Hayes, Joseph (December 22, 1975)
Heller, Joseph (December 7, 1975)
Hemingway, Mary (February 10, 1976)
Hoffman, Daniel (July 15, 1976)
Holland, Cecelia (undated)
Hollander, John (January 5, 1976)
Horgan, Paul (December 1, 1975)
Ignatow, David (December 12, 1975)
Jacobsen, Josephine (December 15, 1975)
Knebel, Fletcher (December 11, 1975)
LeCarre, John (February 18, 1976 and March 5, 1976)
Lawrence, Josephine (December 26, 1975)
Lea, Tom (December 19, 1975)
Lessing, Doris (November 3, 1975)
Levertov, Denise (March 21, 1976)
Lincoln, Victorian (undated)
Lord, Walter (August 19, 1976)
McCarthy, Mary (January 14, 1976)
MacInnes, Helen ((January 1, 1976)
McKuen, Rod (December 31, 1975)
MacLeish, Archibald (November 3, 1975)
McPherson, Jessamyn West (February 6, 1976)
Mailer, Norman (September 23, 1976)
Malamud, Bernard (November 30, 1975)
Michener, James (January 23, 1976)
Miles, Josephine (November 25, 1975)
Miller, Kenneth (March 23, 1976)
Morris, Willie (January 6, 1976)
Murdoch, Iris (November 8, 1975 and undated)
Nicholl, Louise T. (undated)
Nathan, Robert (December 20, 1976)
Owens, William (January 20, 1976)
Ryhs, Jean (March 9, 1976)
Sandburg, Helga (January 24, 1976)
Sarton, May (December 6, 1975)
Shapiro, Karl (February 1, 1976)
Snodgrass, W.D. (January 19, 1976)
Stegner, Wallace (December 4, 1975)
Stern, James (December 16, 1975)
Stewart, Mary (November 11, 1975 and September 29, 1976)
Talese, Gay (January 8, 1976)
Tate, Allen (January 15, 1976)
Taylor, Peter (August 1, 1977)
Untermeyer, Louis (November 14, 1975)
Viereck, Peter (January 12, 1976)
Vining, Elizabeth Gray (January 25, 1976)
Wakoski, Diane (May 1, 1976)
Wheelock, John Hall (January 21, 1976)
Wilson, Sloan (undated)
Wright, James (January 30, 1976)
van Wyck Mason, F. (January 15, 1976)
Wagenknecht, Edward (Janaury 13, 1976, and September 5, 1976)
Warren, Robert Penn (November 7, 1975, and February 5, 1976)
8x10 color photograph at 85th birthday party, undated
8x10 color photograph of Katherine Anne Porter, head and shoulders, undated
8x10 black and white, Katherine Anne Porter signing books with Dr. Roger L. Brooks and an HPU professor, 1976
6x8 black and white, Katherine Anne Porter visiting with Sally Willison at Indian Creek Cemetery, 1976
6x8 black and white, Katherine Anne Porter at her mother's gravestone, Indian Creek Cemetery, 1976.
4x6 black and white photograph, Katherine Anne Porter at 8 yrs of age, with friends and teacher, 1898.
This collection ranges in date from 1940-1998 (bulk 1980-1990) and features correspondence, recipes, notes, photographs, invitations to Katherine Anne Porter conferences and dinners, published materials, and an artifact. Items of note include 1946 correspondence from Ms. Porter to Paul Porter, encouraging Mr. Porter to attend college, and describing her days at the C-Bar-H Ranch in California. Correspondence in 1981 between Paul Porter and Ms. Porter's publisher, Arthur Thornhill of Little, Brown, and Co., relates to an unauthorized biography of Ms. Porter by Enrique Hank Lopez. Other materials include several of Ms. Porter's handwritten recipes, a note regarding her astrological chart, a crystal paperweight engraved with her initials. Photographs include several images of Ms. Porter, as well as a photograph of Glenna Goodacre molding the sculpture of Ms. Porter which now stands at Sea World of Texas' "The Texas Walk".
Katherine Anne Porter, age 85, photo by Paul Porter (8x10, color)
Katherine Anne Porter, by George Platt Lynes, undated (8x10, b&w)
Katherine Anne Porter, Glenway Wescott, and Monroe Wheeler, undated
2 photos by Paul Porter (4x4, color)
Glenna Goodacre molding Katherine Anne Porter sculpture, which was featured at Sea World of Texas' "The Texas Walk" (3x5, color, plus one photocopy of image)
Bouquet of flowers given to Katherine Anne Porter by an interviewer, inscribed by Katherine Anne Porter (3x3, color)
Historical marker featuring Katherine Anne Porter, in Kyle, TX, undated 2 photos (3x5, color)
Printed material, correspondence, financial and legal documentation, handwritten notes, books and other published material, photographs, artifacts, and sound recordings, 1921 to 1993 (bulk 1930-1975), created and maintained by Jovita González Mireles and E.E. Mireles, and further maintained by their friend and employee M. (Maria) Isabel Cruz who inherited the material after Mr. Mireles' death, help to document the education, teaching careers, and personal and financial lives of Jovita González Mireles and E.E. Mireles.
The collection has been arranged into fourteen series: Education, Teaching, Correspondence, Daybooks/Notebooks, Minutes, Financial Papers, Legal Materials, Medical Records, Photographs, Clippings, Postcard Collection, Artifacts, Books/Published Material, and Sound Recordings. These series are based on the original order of the materials when present, order was created by the cataloger for the materials that lacked it.
Mr. and Ms. Mireles' masters theses, included in the Education Series, are of particular interest, because they document the areas of their graduate studies. Ms. González was awarded the Rockefeller grant in 1934 for the research she did for her thesis. In the Correspondence Series the letters to Mr. Mireles from Ms. Mireles while she was away in Mexico offer insight into their personal relationship. The beginnings of the Pan American Council of Texas is documented in the Minutes Series. This council, started by E.E. Mireles in 1943, worked to support the Spanish program in the Corpus Christi public schools where Pan American Clubs had already been started. Among the books in the Books/Published Material Series are The Voice of the Coyote by J. Frank Dobie and Finding Literature on the Texas Plains by John William Roger and J. Frank Dobie, both of which are inscribed by Dobie to Ms. Mireles. The Clippings Series documents the legal and political issues pertaining to education in Texas, racial discrimination, and local Corpus Christi news. Some aspects of Mr. and Ms. Mireles' careers are not fully documented. For example, there are no drafts of any of their writings, and there is limited material on Ms. Mireles' teaching career.
This series documents the higher education of both E.E. Mireles and Jovita González Mireles through records of school work which contain the dates of attendance, grades and classes taken. Their Masters theses are also included in this series and offer insight into the topics of their studies. Ms. González's thesis, "Social Life in Webb, Starr, and Zapata Counties," is of particular interest.
This series contains material that helps to illustrate Mr. and Ms. Mireles' life-long teaching careers. Mr. Mireles' career in particular can be traced through his teaching contracts, and his Texas Teacher Retirement System statements in this series.
This series includes both correspondence belonging to E.E. Mireles and Jovita González Mireles, as well as correspondence between them. Of particular interest are the letters from Ms. Mireles to Mr. Mireles during the summer of 1956, while she was away in Mexico, which offer insight into their relationship.
Basore, Joe N. (Hot Springs Village), undated.
[Gonzalez], H., undated.
Robertson, Mary, March 6, 1974.
S_____, Maritere, May 30, 1954. Enclosed: two b/w photographs, "Carretas de las fiestos típicas," and "Juchitecas atviadas."
Whitmyre, Hilda, October 1, 1974
Whitmyre, Hilda, postmark March 14, 1975
July 11, 1954
July 23, [1955]
July 4, 1956
July 8, [1956]
July 10, [1956]
August 2, 1956
August 4, 1956
August 6, 1956
An address book belonging to Jovita González Mireles contains a signed contract between Jovita González and Margaret Eimer (Eve Raleigh) for the novel "All This is Mine," [Caballero] "a historical novel of the border during the Mexican War," May 30, 1939. Also in this series are E.E. Mireles daybook and balance sheets.
This series contains material that documents the start of the Pan American Council of Texas which was briefly called the Pan American Council of Corpus Christi. The Council was started in 1943 by E. E. Mireles to work with the Spanish program in the Corpus Christi public schools where Pan American Clubs had already been started. The Coastal Bend Television Co. minutes, also in this series, document E.E. Mireles' participation in its beginnings.
his series documents the financial life of E.E. Mireles and Jovita González Mireles from appliances purchases and routine utility payments to E.E. Mireles' student loans.
The legal series contains legal documentation for both E. E. Mireles and Jovita González Mireles. Of particular interest are the papers related to E. E. Mireles' cousin Maria Luisa Hinojosa Ramirez, which document the process though which a Mexican national had to go to legally immigrate to the USA.
This small series consists mostly of medical records and receipts for Jovita González Mireles.
The majority of the snapshot style color, and black and white photographs in this series are unidentified. One image of particular interest included in this series is a matted photograph of E.E. Mireles at age twenty-six which is inscribed to Jovita.
"Pre-school English," 5 negatives, 1959
Unidentified gas station, undated
Unidentified women (2) on porch In memoriam card for Adela G. Mireles, 1974
"Party at Nita Clark's, Sept 1960
"Servico Medina truck, 4 b/w photographs, undated.
Unidentified castle, undated
[E.E. Mireles] playing pool, 196
6E.E. Mireles portrait, c. 1930s
The clippings in this series pertain to educational issues in Texas, legal and political news, discrimination, as well as local Corpus Christi news. There are also several obituaries including that of Mr. Mireles.
The postcard collection is made up of mostly travel post cards consisting of photographs and drawings of locations, hotels, and art works.
The Artifacts series consists of items which most likely belonged to Ms. Mireles rather than Mr. Mireles, including a sewing box, two wooden boxes with floral decorations, a woman's hat, glove and handkerchief, a key to the Mireles' ranch, and a photograph of Ms. Mireles' sister.
In this series are the books The Voice of the Coyote by J. Frank Dobie and Finding Literature on the Texas Plains by John William Roger and J. Frank Dobie both of which contain personal inscriptions from Dobie to Jovita González Mireles. There are also three volumes of the Silver Spur, the yearbook from W.B. Ray High School where Ms. Mireles taught. These yearbooks offer a glimpse into her experience there as a teacher.
This series consists of two magnetic tape reels of Spanish lessons by E. E. Mireles [both tape reels have been transferred unto compact discs for patron use] and two phonographs of mariachi music.
Consisting of notes, outlines, drafts, typescripts, correspondence, subject files, photographs, newsclippings, artifacts, a scrapbook, legal, medical, and financial records, this material was created and maintained by R.G. Vliet, with the exception of some material maintained by his widow, Ann Vliet, after Mr. Vliet's death. Dates range from 1900-1990 (bulk 1960-1984).
This material documents the author's writing process and career, covering the various genres in which he worked, and demonstrating the creative overlap between these genres (plays, poems, and short stories worked into novels, for example). For each major work, extensive background notes, outlines, sketches, drafts, handwritten copies, and typescripts exist, showing details of the author's creative method. Of special interest are the research files, drafts, and correspondence relating to the author's final, and posthumously published, novel, Scorpio Rising.
Personal items include photographs, a large scrapbook, newsclippings, notebooks, medical, legal, and financial records, and several artifacts, such as clothing and eyeglasses. This material offers a perspective on the personal lives of R.G. and Ann Vliet.
This series is arranged into the following sub-series: Novels, Plays, Poetry, Stories, Articles and Essays, Speeches, and Subject Files.
This subseries very clearly shows Vliet's process of writing from preliminary research through final product. It includes extensive background research files including files by subject containing clippings from newspapers and magazines, library call slips, color and black and white photographs, and handwritten notes. Following these research files are drafts of chapters handwritten in pencil, annotated typescripts, clean typescripts, and (minimal) correspondence. Perhaps most meticulously documented is the process of writing Scorpio Rising, Vliet's last novel, despite the fact that he was violently ill when writing it and died only one week after completing it. The author's widow, Ann Vliet, saw this novel through to publication.
Drafts of plays (mostly handwritten in pencil and annotated) and typescripts (mostly mimeographs or photocopies with annotations) are arranged in this subseries in alphabetical order. For reviews and further information regarding the author's plays, see Series II: Personal, Newsclippings.
Individual handwritten and typed poems, and hand-bound books of poetry, comprise this subseries. Many of the individual poems are accompanied by drafts, some are single copies. Individual poems are arranged alphabetically, followed by books of poetry, also arranged alphabetically. See also Series 2: Personal, Subseries C: Scrapbook, for early drafts of poetry.
This subseries includes short stories such as "The Morning of the First Day" and "The Morning and the Evening of the First Day". Many are complete stories, some are fragments or are in draft form. Portions of these examples of Vliet's early prose would later be worked into the author's novels.
Articles and essays in this subseries relate to Vliet's own writing process and influences. All are in typescript form and most have handwritten annotations.
This subseries includes drafts and typescripts of four speeches which address Vliet's writing process and influences. Also included here is the author's acceptance speech for the 1978 Texas Institute of Letters Award received for his novel, Solitudes.
Handwritten and typed notes, clippings, and photocopies, arranged in alphabetical order by the author's subject categories, comprise the majority of this subseries. Also included are several folders of topographical and road maps of various Texas counties and other locations.
Personal Papers are arranged into the following sub-series: Correspondence, Photographs, Scrapbooks, Clippings, Notebooks, Medical Records, Legal Records, Financial Records, Computer Disks, and Artifacts.
Business correspondence relates to Vliet's writing career, and covers such subjects as writing submissions, editing of works to be published, royalties for published works. Correspondents include various poetry and literary
journals, Texas Institute of Letters, the Ford Foundation, and Vliet's agent, Lucy Kroll, of the Lucy Kroll Agency.
Two non-correspondence files were filed by the author with this business correspondence, and are located at the beginning of this group of correspondence. The first of these, "Market List", is a list of journals and publishers to contact; the second file, "Notes on copyright", includes lists of Vliet's works and their copyright status (transfer of copyright, renewal dates for copyright, etc.) and notes regarding royalties.
Personal correspondence in this subseries includes letters to Vliet from long-time friends such as Ruth Bloom, Harry Clauss, Alan Distler, John Haag, Ralph Houston, and David Lyttle. Several letters from Vliet to Ralph Houston are also included here, presumably sent to Ann Vliet after R.G. Vliet's death. These letters are of special interest in that they discuss Vliet's writing and his health. Correspondence from Vliet's family include genealogical information, and a letter from Vliet's father, R.G. Vliet, Sr., regarding the use of the name "R.G. Vliet" in published materials.
Photographs in this subseries are divided into the following groups: photographs of R.G. Vliet alone, Vliet and his immediate family, Vliet and extended family, Mexico snapshots, friends, workspaces, and pets. Most are color snapshots from Vliet's personal life, most are not labeled with identifying information. See also Subseries C: Scrapbook, for additional photographs, especially from Vliet's youth.
This scrapbook serves as Vliet's baby book, and documents his activities as a Boy Scout and Eagle Scout, his high school days (including his diploma), and college days at Southwest Texas State University, as well as some examples of his early poetry and sketches. Formats include photographs, drawings, newsclippings, pressed flowers, awards and badges, membership cards, letters, drafts of poetry.
Clippings in this subseries cover subjects ranging from Vliet's early play productions to the posthumous publication of his last novel, Scorpio Rising. These clippings were maintained by the author and filed along with play programs for several plays. This original order has been maintained, so that clippings regarding specific plays are filed here along with the play programs.
This subseries is comprised of Vliet's handwritten notes for a class taken at Yale School of Drama, "History of the Theater", in 1955.
Records in this subseries include correspondence, photocopied clippings, and doctors' reports regarding R. G. Vliet's fight against lymphoma from 1982 until his death in 1984. Also included are records relating to Ann Vliet's health from to 1987-1989.
R.G. Vliet's Last Will and Testament (1983) is included in this subseries, along with documents relating to a 1983 purchase of land in Kyle, Texas, and Ann Vliet's 1985-86 retirement and move to Kyle.
Check registers, bank statements, tax receipts and notes comprise one-half of this subseries. The second half includes financial notes and notebooks maintained by R. G. Vliet, which document expenditures relating to research and writing and may have been tax deductible.
Eighty-six 5 1/4" floppy computer disks (with no print-outs) are included in this subseries. Many are untitled or have fragments of labels.
One award (from Southwest Texas State University) and several items of clothing, as well as Vliet's eyeglasses and case, are included in this subseries. The embroidered white cotton shirt worn by Vliet at his daughter's wedding (see Series 2: Personal, Subseries B: Photographs) can also be found here.
Correspondence, scrapbooks, video cassettes, sound recordings, scripts, clippings, ephemera, photographs, books and periodicals, 1911 to 1999 (bulk 1942 - 1976), created and maintained by Paul and Kitty Baker, document the Bakers' life long involvement in theater and education, as well as their personal relationship and family life.
The collection consists of twelve series:
1.Correspondence (1927-1999, undated)
2. Scrapbooks (1952-1986)
3. Video Cassettes (1957-1995, undated)
4. Sound Recordings (1970-1978, undated)
5. Scripts (1969-1992, undated)
6. The Baylor Children's Theater Early Development (1966-1985, undated)
7. Clippings (1942-1990, undated)
8. Theater Brochures and Programs (1929-1996, undated)
9. Iceland Base Command WWII (1943-1945, undated)
10. Photographs (undated)
11. Personal Ephemera (1911-1942, undated)
12. Books and Periodicals (1953-1994, undated).
These series are based on the original order of the materials when present; order was created by the cataloger for the materials that lacked it.
The bulk of this material is related to Paul Baker's career as a director and educator. The Scrapbook Series and the Sound Recordings Series are predominately made up of material pertaining to Paul Baker's drama productions. The Video Cassettes Series documents several of Paul Baker's productions, and includes interviews with Baker about his career and his perspective on drama and education. Material regarding Kitty Baker and the Baker family, while limited, can be found in the Scrapbook Series and the Correspondence Series. The Correspondence Series documents the Bakers' early years of marriage, and the issues with which they dealt while they were apart during WWII. Some of the material in the Video Cassettes Series and the Books and Periodicals Series also provides documentation on the Bakers' recent educational involvement with Waelder elementary school, and the Bakers' use of their Integration of Abilities Technique with its students.
The bulk of this series is comprised of personal correspondence (1942- 1945) between Paul and Kitty Baker while she remained in the U.S., and he was stationed in Iceland and Paris as a Special Services Entertainment Officer during World War II. This group of correspondence is of particular interest in that it offers great insight into the Bakers' early relationship as husband and wife. The original chronological order in which the Bakers kept this correspondence has been maintained. The remaining correspondence in this series is an assortment of letters and cards sent to the Bakers between 1927 and 1999. There was little original order to this correspondence, therefore it has been arranged by the cataloger in chronological order.
The scrapbooks in this series contain mostly newspaper clippings, and some photographs and ephemera. The bulk of the scrapbooks are about Paul Baker, his productions, and the different theaters at which he worked. The Family (1952-1976) scrapbook contains clippings and photographs relating to the Baker children's activities and achievements, as well as Mr. and Mrs. Bakers' educational interests and accomplishments. There are also a few clippings about the Baker family in other scrapbooks in the series. This series has been arranged chronologically.
This series, made up of the subseries Tributes and Interviews, Play Productions, Educational, and Miscellaneous, documents the Bakers' lifelong involvement in theater and education. Within each series the cassettes have been arranged alphabetically by title. Many of the cassettes in the Tributes and Interviews, and Educational Subseries offer insight into Paul Baker's philosophy of education, while the cassettes in the Play Productions Subseries provide examples of Baker's work as a director.
The majority of the recordings (13 reel to reel tapes, 3 cassettes, and 1 phonograph) in this series are of theater productions directed by Paul Baker during his time at Baylor. They are arranged alphabetically.
The bulk of the scripts in this series are from plays directed or written by Paul Baker. Other scripts were written by students, friends or relatives of Baker. Many of the scripts have been annotated and some are in an early or rough stage. The scripts have been arranged alphabetically by author.
Highlights in this series include three plays by the Bakers' daughter, Sallie Baker Laurie, and two versions of Hamlet, one as arranged by Paul Baker and a second, Hamlet ESP, an adaptation by Paul Baker. Several scripts in this series are by playwrights who are also represented in other drama collections at the Wittliff Collection, including The Last Meeting of the Knights of the White Magnolia, and The Oldest Living Graduate both by Preston Jones,As I Lay Dying by Robert Flynn, and Ramsey Yelvington's Cloud of Witnesses.
This series contains materials compiled by Kitty Baker about the early development of The Baylor Children's Theater. In 1941, Mrs. Baker began a children's art and drama class for the Baker's first daughter and her friends, which would eventually grow into the Baylor Children's Theater. In this series, clippings, photographs, booklets, workshop materials and ephemera record the activities of the Children's Theater and Mrs. Baker's role as its co-founder.
The small group of clippings in this series highlights periods in Paul Baker's life from his undergraduate years at Trinity University in Waxahachie, TX, to his work at Baylor University, and his retirement in Waelder, TX.
The brochures and programs in this series come mostly from theaters and productions with which Paul Baker was involved either as a performer or director. They are arranged alphabetically by theater name.
Paul Baker collected the material in this series during his time as Special Service Entertainment Officer at Iceland Base Command in World War II. The Iceland Base Command newspaper, "The White Falcon," contains several articles about productions directed by Paul Baker at the base. Also included in this series are programs from some of these plays, as well as art works from Iceland. This series is arranged by material type.
This series contains nine studio proofs of Paul and Kitty Baker. Additional photographs can be found in the Scrapbooks series.
This series is made up of handwritten notes, commencement programs from Trinity and other Universities, booklets about foreign missionary work, calling cards and other assorted ephemera. The material is arranged by material type.
The material in this series pertains to theater and education, and much of it is by or about Paul Baker. Annotated or unpublished titles have been filed with in this series, other titles as listed have been cataloged below.
The following titles have been cataloged separately:
Baker, Paul The Drama Review: Architecture/Environment, with article "Flexible Theatrical Space," 1968. PN 1601 .T8: Baker, Paul Making Sense with Five Senses: The Motivation Force to Energize Learning. 1993. LB1067 .B35 1994
Baylor University Institute for Oral History Oral Memoirs of Paul and Kitty Baker: A Series of Interviews Conducted 25 July 1990. PS3552.A433 Z465 1997
Baylor University Institute for Oral History The Paul Baker Festival Second Harvest: Oral Memoirs of Students, Colleagues, and Family of Paul Baker. 1990. PS3552.A433 Z55 1997
Byers, Ruth Creating Theater: From idea through performance with children and teens, 1968. PN3157 .B9 1968
Cory, Joyce Burke The Dallas Theater Center: An Idea That Was Big Enough. 1980. PN2277.D22 D34 1980
Dallas Theater Center Dallas Theater Center 1959-1979: Twenty Dynamic Years. 1979. PN2277.D22 D3 1979
Dallas Theater Center Dallas Theater Center 1959-1994: Thirty-fifth Anniversary. 1994. PN2277.D22 D33 1994
Flynn, Robert and Susan Russell When I Was Just Your Age: Remarkable Reflections On Growing Up In Another Era. 1992. E169 .F64 1992
McRae, John M. Image 4 with article "Dramatic Experience: The Play and the Building" by Paul Baker 1966. NA1 .I451964
O'Bannon, Ernest Venture: The Baylor Literary Quarterly, Winter 1953-1954. AP2 .V46
O'Neil, Ford Lessons in Looking: Dialogues with O'Neil Ford, Architect, Learning About Learning Artist/Teacher Series. 1981. NA2555 .F673 19
This collection is comprised of handwritten and typed letters from Texas author Elithe Hamilton Kirkland to friend Nancie Austin, of Wimberley, Texas. The letters date from 1979-1983, and relate to the friendship between Kirkland and Austin, and to the development of Kirkland's novel, The Edge of Disrepute, published in 1984. The letters are arranged in chronological order by year, with earliest correspondence at the beginning of each folder.
Among are the undated correspondence are typed copies of "The Drama of the Word", an address Ms. Kirkland gave before the Texas Joint Council of Teachers of English, and "pertinent statements" extracted by Ms. Kirkland from this address.
This collection is comprised of typescripts of one play and two screenplays by McCarthy. The play, The Stonemason, was published in 1994. The screenplay, Cities of the Plain (1984), predates the publication of the novel by the same name by fourteen years. Both screenplays in this collection, Cities of the Plain (1984) and Whales and Men (undated) are unpublished. These typescripts are photocopies of originals, signed by the author on the title page, and do not include annotations or edits.
None of the material in this collection, whether an entire work or a single page, may be photocopied.
This collection is comprised of two works of commentary by John Emil Sepich that focus on the novel, Blood Meridian, by Cormac McCarthy. Sepich published Notes on Blood Meridian in October 1993.
Also included are two 1990 letters from Sepich to Bill Wittliff, regarding the donation of this material to the Southwestern Writers Collection.
Accompanied by 1992 note to Bill Wittliff.
Two 1990 letters from Sepich to Bill Wittliff, regarding the donation of this material to the Southwestern Writers Collection.
This collection is comprised of drafts and proofs of essays by various authors focusing on novelist Cormac McCarthy. The essays were edited by Edwin "Chip" Arnold and Dianne Luce, and appeared in Perspectives on Cormac McCarthy, the book version of the Southern Quarterly, published by the University Press of Mississippi, September 1993.
The collection has been arranged into the two series: Drafts, Proofs, and Correspondence. Dates range from 1991 to 1993.
The Drafts series includes photocopies of typewritten, hand annotated drafts, accompanied in many cases by brief correspondence regarding the status of the draft. Some folders include several drafts. Arranged alphabetically by last name of the author.
Proofs are arranged in alphabetical order by the last name of the author, followed by one set of proofs for the work as a whole.
Photographs, correspondence and political campaign literature comprise the bulk of this collection. Dates range from 1958-1992.
Books, manuscripts, sheet music, galleys, handwritten notes, and photographs in this collection relate primarily to Frazier's 1983 biographical essay on SWT alumna Ponce Cruse Evans, author of the syndicated newspaper column, "Hints from Heloise". Photographs and clippings relate to both Heloise Cruse Ponce, and her mother, Heloise Cruse. Dates range from 1981-1989. Books from this collection have been cataloged separately.
This collection is comprised primarily of photocopies of newspaper articles written by Susan Hanson, staff writer for the San Marcos Daily Record. Many articles are accompanied by notes and brief correspondence from the subject of the articles. The Interviews series includes handwritten notes taken during telephone interviews; articles written from these notes appear in the Articles series.
Albert, Susan
Bechtol, Bill
Boyd, Sheryl
Crook, Elizabeth
Dunn, Margaret
Flowers, Betty Sue
Holland, Dick
Lighthouse, Terry
Merwin, W.S.
Ogden, Scott
Price, Randall
Renick, Oren
Thompson, Dave
This collection is comprised of a typescript, an interview, photographs, and correspondence related to Council's unpublished project, "Curanderas: Texas-Mexican Visionaries: Folklore Interviews with Faith Healers and Intuitive Women". Dates range from 1987-1989.
This collection includes one typescript of a speech, and copies of two articles published by the author. It has been arranged into the following series: 1. Speech, and 2. Published Articles. Dates range from 1989-1991. The speech, entitled "Texans and the Land", was given by Flores at the Texas State Historical Association meeting in 1991. The two articles include "The Plains and the Painters," a page proof as it was to appear in the Journal of American Culture, Summer 1991, vol. 14, no.2. The second article, "The Ecology of the Red River in 1806," is a reprint originally published in Southwestern Historical Quarterly, and is signed by the author. This article won the Carroll Award from the Texas State Historical Association and the Billington Prize from the Western Historical Association.
Photographs, costumes, posters, awards, clippings dating from 1930s-1990s and featuring members of the Texas Western Swing Hall of Fame comprise the bulk of this collection. Items of note include Bob Wills' hat and a fiddle he reportedly played, and Laura Lee McBride's fringed leather costume.
Al Dressen
Tommy Duncan, Bob Wills, and Laura Lee McBride
Bob Wills and Hoyle Nix
Bob Wills and Laura Lee McBride
Sons of the Pioneers
Ted Daffan
Texas Swing Pioneers (Johnny Gimble, Jerry Gimble, Smokey Montgomery, J.R. Chatwell), Fall 1980
McKinney Sisters (Dean and Evelyn)
Tiny Moore
Billy Briggs
This collection is comprised of annotated typescripts and page mock-ups for Gwynn's three books of poetry, and one poem written for a wedding ceremony. Dates range from circa 1976-1994.
This small collection is comprised of the handwritten lyrics and chord notations to the country western song "Charlie Dunn", written in the 1970s by Jerry Jeff Walker for the Texas boot maker by that name, who worked with Buck Steiner, at the Capital Saddlery, on Lavaca Street in Austin, Texas. Also included is the first pair of custom lizard skin boots made for Walker by Dunn, which bear Walker's initials on the front shaft of each boot.
Lyrics for 3 songs written and/or performed by Jerry Jeff Walker.
This collection is comprised of newspaper clippings, a typescript, photographs, prints and posters. Clippings relate to Latino studies and were collected by Ricardo and Harriett Romo; the typescript by UT Austin professor Ramón Saldivar, is entitled "The Dialectics of Difference: Contemporary Chicano Narrative", which was published in 1990 by the University of Wisconsin Press. Harriett Romo's collaboration with photographer Alan Pogue documenting the lives of Head Start program families in an exhibit entitled "Photographs and Field Notes: An Ethnographic View of Head Start Families", is represented by proof copies of brochure and exhibit panels, and photographs by Pogue. Also included are two photographs of César Chávez, and a collection of posters and prints, including a Malaquias Montoya lithograph of Tomás Rivera. Dates range from 1967-1991. Books and periodicals cataloged separately.
Chávez, César (2 black and white snapshots of Chávez speaking in Austin, Texas, undated)
Montoya, Malaquias. Tomás Rivera lithograph.
"Agricultural Workers of the Rio Grande and Rio Bravo Valleys – A portfolio by Alan Pogue with essays by Rolando Hinojosa Smith and Ruperto Garcia" Portfolio and poster
"The New Immigration: Ten Etchings" by José Antonio Aguirre, Guillermo Bert, Leo Limón, Malaquias Montoya, and Alejandro Romero, 1989
Malaquias Montoya: A Solo Exhibition, April 4, 1992, Galería Sin Fronteras, Austin, Texas
Chicano Studies Program, University of Wisconsin – Madison (illustated by Francisco Mora)
Galería Sin Fronteras Inaugural Exhibit – Jose F. Treviño, October 1986
Tomás Rivera Center – A Seminar & Photographic Exhibition December 14-15, 1986
The Emergence of a Chicana Aesthetics, 1992
"Toci" serigraph, Atelier XIII, 1989, Michael Amescua
"Cocina Jaiteca" serigraph, National. Chicano Taller, 1988, Lawrence M. Yanez
Xochil Art Institute: Louis Le Roy, Ten Years of Chilis
"Recuerdos y memorias de Doña Inez" serigraph, Atelier X, 1989, Samuel A. Baray
"Pan Dulce" serigraph, Atelier XII, 1988, Sam Coronado
"The Dressing Table" serigraph, Atelier XII, 1988, Patssi Valdez
Untitled serigraph, Atelier III, 1984, Roberto Delgado
"Dando gracias" serigraph, Atelier II, 1983, Leo Limón
"Muchachos Talk" serigraph, Special Project, Atelier XII, 1987, Leo Limón
"Perro en mi cama" serigraph, Atelier XII, 1988, Dolores Guerrero-Cruz
"Encantacion" serigraph, Nat'l. Chicano Taller, 1988, Alfredo Arreguin
Santa Fe Indian School: One Hundred Years of Indian Education 1890-1990
This collection was created and maintained by Joe Nick Patoski in the process of writing the biography of Tejano singer, Selena Quintanilla Perez. The collection is compiled of news clippings, manuscripts, interviews, photographs, court documents, notes, publicity materials, computer disks and ephemera. Dates range from 1961 to 1997 (bulk 1995-1996).
The collection is arranged into eight series: I. Clippings (1971-1997, undated), II. Subject Files (1961-1996, undated), III. Court Documents (1995), IV. Notes (1995, undated), V. Interviews (1992-1995), VI. Manuscripts (1995-1996), VII. Correspondence (1995-1996), and VIII. Publicity (1995-1996). The materials arrived with little discernible order and have been arranged by the archivist.
The author's year long research and writing processes, which began the day after Selena's death on March 31, 1995 and continued until January 1996, are reflected in this collection. Patoski, working under his publisher's deadline of the first anniversary of Selena's death (March 1996), delegated a portion of the Selena research to friends and colleagues. Richard and Mary Zelade, among others, conducted interviews and research, adding significantly to the information Patoski was able to gather in this short amount of time.
This series contains coverage of Selena mainly in the form of newspaper and magazine clippings. However, there are other items such as scholarly papers and rough drafts of Patoski's magazine articles for Texas Monthly. This material has been arranged in chronological and subject order by the archivist.
Lake Jackson (1971-1985, undated) The clippings cover Selena's beginnings in Lake Jackson. Under this topic is her birth announcement, news about the Dow Chemical plant where her father worked, and advertisements for the family restaurant.
Pre-Shooting (1983-1995, undated) This folder includes Selena's musical and personal accomplishments before her murder.
Shooting (1995) Found in this folder are items relating to the events immediately following Selena's murder: the standoff between Yolanda and Corpus Christi Police, a transcript of the 911 call from the Days Inn Hotel lobby where Selena collapsed after running from Saldivar, and publication of Selena's autopsy photographs in the tabloid magazine the Globe.
Veneration (1995-1996) This folder involves the public and media expressions of grief, veneration of a pop icon, tributes, and look-alike contests.
Media Fact Finding Folder (1995) This folder contains the media's attempt to piece together events that led up to the shooting and possible reasons and motives for why the shooting took place. The folder also features background information on Yolanda Saldivar, reports on Selena's net worth before and after her death, and gossip generated by the National Enquirer and the Globe.
Culture of Death (1995) Compiled in the Culture of Death folder is the media's attempt to analyze the violent episodes of Selena's murder and an unrelated office shooting in Corpus Christi.
Posthumous CD: "Dreaming of You" (1995) This contains information about the songs on the CD, the release dates, and reviews of the CD.
Cashing in on Selena's Death (1995-1997) This folder includes clippings covering Abraham Quintanilla's legal battle to stop unauthorized selling of Selena memorabilia such as T-shirts, pictures, and bootleg tapes of her music.
Criticisms of Public Grief folder (1995) This folder includes clippings regarding Howard Stern's insults regarding Tejano music and Selena, and LULAC's response to Stern and their boycotts of products advertised on his radio program. Also included are letters to the editors of various newspapers stating that the Selena veneration of Selena is excessive.
Trial (1995) The trial folder includes media coverage of the State of Texas vs. Yolanda Saldivar in October of 1995, and the public's reaction to the outcome of the court case.
Selena: Como la Flor (1996) Within the folder are book reviews (mainly favorable), excerpts of the book in various newspapers, a piece by Don McLeese of the Austin American-Statesman questioning Patoski's right to pen an unauthorized biography of Selena, and Abraham Quintanilla Jr.'s public denouncement of Patoski's book.
Selena the Movie (1995-1997) This folder contains reviews of the movie (mostly unfavorable) as well as reviews of the movie's soundtrack.
Hispanics in the Media (1991-1995) Topics include: Hispanic celebrations, folklore, discussion in the media about the growing Hispanic population in Texas, the increasing economic power of Hispanics, Catholic religion, coverage of Hispanics portrayed in the media, and information of Hispanic success stories such as entertainers and business people.
Tejano Music (1993-1996, undated) News of Tejano stars, music and awards is included in this folder along with selected coverage of Selena's awards, appearances, music, and concerts
This series contains research on various people and places (arranged in alphabetical order), in the form of typewritten notes, photographs, scholarly papers, Tejano Press kits, Abraham's military records, a Selena Boutique catalog and information on Texas radio stations. Yolanda Saldivar's folder within this series contains her signed murder confession with the Corpus Christi police. In addition, there is extensive information collected on Tejano music and Tejano stars.
This series consists mainly of photocopies of typed court documents. Additionally, there are artist renditions of the State of Texas vs. Yolanda Saldivar trial and an identification card for Patoski to attend the hearing. Other court documents in this series include 1.) Ramiro Burr's (a writer for San Antonio Express News) lawsuit against Abraham Quintanilla, Jr. and his associates for breach of contract to ghost write a biography of Selena, and 2.) the family settlement of Selena's estate.
This series is comprised of notes handwritten by Patoski on legal and spiral bound notebooks, as well as notes written and typed from Richard and Mary Zelade. The Zelades interviewed people who could offer insight into Selena and her family before she became famous.The researchers also investigated bank records and places of employment for the Quintanilla family before they moved to Corpus Christi, Texas.
This series contains various interviews with people related to or who had contact with Selena. The interviews consist of conversations recorded on audio cassettes, both in person and by telephone. Some interviews have both audiotapes and transcriptions, while others exist only in one format or the other. Interview subjects include Tejano artists, people in the music business, music critics, family, friends, fans, and acquaintances. Because Patoski's book was an unauthorized biography, he could not contact any of the Quintanilla family or close friends. However, interviews with Chris Perez (Selena's husband), Selena's father, and her siblings were given to Patoski by the interviewer, John Morthland. One interview of particular interest features Selena discussing her relationship with Yolanda Saldivar and her own naivete about people's motives to be her friend.
This series includes typed rough drafts of Selena: Como la Flor. The various drafts include editor's corrections and questions either typed or hand-written on the pages of the manuscripts. In addition, some of the editor's comments are written on small notes. Correspondence between Little, Brown and Company and Patoski concerning his manuscript is also included in this series. Along with the manuscripts is a paper back book copy of Selena and examples of the book cover.
Included within this series is various correspondence related to or peripheral to Patoski's research. It is organized in alphabetical order by author. Of special note are correspondence from Little, Brown & Company to Patoski concerning legal issues related to the publication of the book. Also of special interest is the correspondence between Patoski and Selena's father concerning Abraham's wish for Patoski to ghost write a biography of Selena.
In April of 1996 Little, Brown and Company administered a book signing tour for Selena: Como la Flor. In addition, Patoski attended lectures and discussions about his book and about biographical work in general. A special event called Selena Trial Revisited was a stage for Patoski to promote his book. Found in this folder are faxes to Patoski from his publisher, brochures of the special events he attended, schedules for his appearance, a audio tape of a radio talk show where he was the guest, and fliers.
This collection is comprised of diaries, typescripts, correspondence, artifacts, and published journals. The bulk of the collection is formed by the typescripts of How It Happened That I Came to Live in the West. The Correspondence series also relates to this novel. Diaries date from LittleDog's teenage years in Germany, a red Hofner accordion belonged to LittleDog's father. Dates range from 1954-1984. Books and periodicals cataloged separately.
This series contains diaries that date from LittleDog's teenage years in Germany.
The bulk of this series is formed by the typescripts of How It Happened That I Came to Live in the West.
The bulk of the correspondence in this series relates to the novel How It Happened That I Came to Live in the West.
This series contains three items: corded belt, Jose Cuervo yellow bandana, and Red Hofner accordion owned by LittleDog's father.
This series contains journals that LittleDog edited or was otherwise associated with.
Drafts, manuscripts, typescripts, notes, photographs, and correspondence comprise this collection, with dates ranging from 1956-1993. The bulk of the collection is comprised of manuscript and typescript drafts of Hauptman's works, mostly his plays and screenplays, with sparse correspondence and publicity. Early works include a 1956 short story titled Wild Life in Canada (1956), complete with drawings of characters. A letter from Hauptman to Roger Miller regarding their collaboration on the award-winning play Big River, is located with the typescript of that play. Of additional note are the poetry, journal entry, and short story which developed into the novel, Storm Season, as well as correspondence from Hauptman to editor Debbie Futter, at Bantam, Doubleday, Dell, regarding, among other things, the title of the novel.
Published works cataloged separately.
Drafts, manuscripts, and typescripts of Hauptman's plays, teleplay, screenplays, short stories, poetry, novel, articles and criticism are located in this series. Titles under each genre are filed alphabetically. Related correspondence, reviews, clippings, publicity, and playbills are filed after the draft or script for each title.
"They Love Him Tender, Love Him True" New York Times Magazine. August 7, 1988
"Close Encounters with Tornadoes" Reader's Digest. July 1985
"Will the World Flock to Wichita Falls?" New York Times Magazine. August 7, 1988
"The Desert: A Short Story" The Atlantic Monthly. March 1983
"On the Dryline" The Atlantic Monthly. May 1984
Books reviewed:
Strange Angels by James Agee
The Fifties, by David Halberstam
Young Men and Fire, by Norman Maclean
Color 3.5"x5" snapshots taken and annotated by Hauptman document people (including Hauptman's brother and father), places (including Wichita Falls and the Oklahoma Union Power Plant), and various tornadoes and cloud formations. Includes one 11x14 photograph.
This series includes a harmonica owned by Hauptman.
This collection includes oral histories recorded on audio cassette tapes, transcriptions, videotapes, photographs, notes, and exhibit text panels which document this project, retracing FSA photographer Russell Lee's Depression era work in Pie Town, NM and San Augustine, TX. Dates range from 1991-1993. The collection is arranged in five series: Oral Histories, Videotapes, Exhibit Catalog, Exhibit Panels, and Photographs.
Oral Histories includes audiocassette tapes and transcriptions of oral histories taken by team members are arranged into Subseries A: Pie Town, New Mexico, and Subseries B: San Augustine, Texas. Under each town, materials are filed in alphabetical order by the name of the subject, with the audiocassette tapes first, followed by the transcripts. Most tapes have transcriptions, several do not.
Videotapes document the project by capturing the team members traveling and planning their progress, and by including some oral history work. These tapes are marked either "Pie Town" or "San Augustine", and are numbered. Additionally, one tape includes a thirty-minute interview with Russell Lee circa 1975, produced by Paul Hightower.
0-175 Hotel briefings;
176-898 Catherine McKee Roberts;
899-1081 Hotel in Pie Town;
1082-1180 Parade, Norris Town
0-377 Norris Ranch;
 378-616 McKee Ranch;
 617-1348 Molly at the dump;
 1349-1801 Hogg Ranch
0-528 Hogg Ranch; 528-1130 Woody's house (fire); 1131-1683 McGee Ranch branding; 1726-1756 Pie Town canine; 1773 Goat folks
0-721 Murphy (County Clerk); 721-890 Francine C. and Eric W. on television; 891-1100 Kids on street; 1101-1126 Victorian house, churches; 1126 – James Brittain
0-342 James Brittain; 343-894 Barber shop; 894-1164 Saw mill; 1164-1719 Ray Kraft; 1719-1807 Verba Lee
Exhibit Catalogs includes notes, drafts of the catalog text, page proofs, and one final copy.
Exhibit Panels include roughly the same text as is featured in the exhibit catalog, and are mounted on white mats.
Photographs of Pie Town and San Augustine by Kathleen Dolan, Kerri Madden, Daryl Meyer, and Mark Edward Smith are included in this series. They are arranged by photographer in alphabetical order, then in groups featuring Pie Town and San Augustine.
The Cindy Bonner papers document the writing and editing process of her novels and short stories. The collection includes research notes, annotated drafts, proofs, and correspondence, dating from 1983-1999. The collection is arranged in three series: Works, Correspondence, and Artifacts.
Series I: Works (1986-1999) documents the writing and editing process of Bonner's four published novels, Lily, Looking After Lily, The Passion of Dellie O'Barr, and Right from Wrong. This series also includes the unpublished novel "Flossie/War Dreams" and seven short stories. Formats include research notes, annotated drafts, proofs, and correspondence.
Series 2: Correspondence (1983-1993) relates to Bonner's writing career and includes letters of acceptance and rejection, and dialogue with literary agents. And Series 3: Artifacts (undated) includes one toy pencil that reads, "I'm a Big Time Writer." The toy was given to Bonner by her son and remained on her desk for five years.
Series I: Novels (1991-1999) documents the writing and editing process of Bonner's four published novels, Lily, Looking After Lily, The Passion of Dellie O'Barr, and Right from Wrong. This series also includes the unpublished novel "Flossie/War Dreams." Formats include research notes, annotated drafts, proofs, and correspondence.
Series II: Short Stories (1986-1999) documents the writing process of seven short stories. Formats include drafts and correspondence.
Series III Correspondence (1983-1993) relates to Bonner's writing career and includes letters of acceptance and rejection, and dialogue with literary agents.
Series 3: Artifacts (undated) includes one toy pencil that reads,"I'm a Big Time Writer." The toy was given to Bonner by her son and remained on her desk for five years.
The series for Plays is the largest of Shepard's works and includes notes, annotated typescripts, playbills, programs, correspondence, sound recordings, rehearsal schedules, reviews, and publicity. This series is notable in that Shepard meticulously identified each annotated draft with the date and place (by city and state) of each revision, and there tend to be multiple drafts of each work represented.
Two annotated typescripts of Stray Hand (working title Slow Dawning of a Sudden Loss), 1991.
Many of the short stories represented in this series were published in short story compilations Motel Chronicles (1982) and Cruising Paradise (1996). The series has been arranged by those compilation titles. Volador was a working title for Cruising Paradise; those files immediately precede the files labeled Cruising Paradise. The files for Volador / Cruising Paradise include multiple drafts of stories, correspondence, while files for Motel Chronicles include annotated typescripts and production information, but no multiple drafts
This series is divided into two subseries. The first, films for which Shepard wrote the screenplay, includes: notes, annotated drafts, dialogue rewrites, publicity, correspondence, contracts, music notes, production notes and schedules. Of the films in this subseries, Silent Tongueincludes the most information (1 linear foot), followed by Far North (.25 linear feet.), Onibaba (.25 linear feet), Paris, TX (4 folders), and Plain Fate, an unfinished work (1 folder). The second subseries of films is for those which Shepard did not write the screenplay but in which he appears as an actor, Bright Angel (1989-90) and Voyager (1990-91) both include screenplay typescripts with Shepard's annotations. Thunderheart (1991) includes storyboards and color photographs, Dash and Lily (1998) includes an advertisement.
This series is comprised of a review by Shepard of Peter Handke's novel The Weight of the World, including a letter from Handke's editor, Shepard's draft, and a copy of the essay as published in Vanity Fair, September 1984.
The Notebooks series includes handwritten notes, dialogue ideas, small drawings, and journal entries, usually in spiral bound notebooks. Some entries are personal and many were or were intended to be developed into longer works.
"Dream in Borad Day," prose fragment, July, 23, 1982; "script fragment beginning," Int. Lee and Old Man," August 8, 1982; "P.O.V's prose, fragment," undated; "After all I'd been through with this guy," prose fragment, October 11, 1982; "The Flood has occurred and he could not be bothered to save himself from drowning..." prose fragment, undated; "Second Chance" undated
"Machine Dreams: "Film Synopsis," December 25, 1984
"Denial," film sketch, February 1984
"History of the Dog," undated
Film sketch beginning, "A Man has a dream about a murder..." undated
"Jealousy is not a pretty thing," October 23, 1988
"States" notes, February, 1989
"1957" film notes, January 1, 1987
"The Man Who Could Not Stop Crying," October 3, 1988
"Thin Skin – What Any Woman Can Do To You," 1989
"J.D.'s Collapse," December 1998
"Southwest Chief – L.A. to Chicago," February 1989
"More Urgent Emergencies," April, 1989
"Wild to the Wild," May, 1989
"Ancient Fear of the Fiddle," May, 1989
"Open Suitcase," January, 1990
quotes dated August, 1992
"Separation: Horrors of the Road," September 1992
"Simms – Tall Stories Solid 7," September, 1993
"One Last Favor," playscript September, 1992
"No Better Place than the Present," undated
"Brecht Clown Play - Joe - World Was Green - At the Edge of the World," November 1993
"Confession - Obsession - Blessing or Curse," "Oedipus," October 1995
"Great Place," November 1995
"Sins of the Distant Past," "Marfa Lights," February 1996; November 1993-January 1996, (black cover)
 "Turkey Sag," January, 1994
"Gary Cooper of the Landscape," January, 1994
"A Weakness for Horses," January, 1994
Actors, Simpatico, "An Actors Doubt," January, 1994
poem "My mother loved the sea..." March, 1994
"Dreaming of a way to Enter the Unbearable Present," April, 1994
"Self Made Man (Divine Providence," undated
"Questions for Junior Brown," March, 1995
"Once," May, 1995
"Dignity," May, 1995
"A Man's Man," May, 1995
"Reading-Oct. 6 -"Y"," April 24, 1994
"Volador; Mundo Nuevo," July, 1994
"Place," May, 1995
Topics include the publication of Shepard's works in magazines and journals as excerpts, as well as in their entirety; correspondence with agent Lois Berman. Aside from general correspondence, this series also includes correspondence from Joseph Chaikin and Barry Daniels and correspondence from Shepard's son, Jesse, as noted [Restricted]. For Shepard's 40-year correspondence with Johnny Dark, see the Southwestern Writers Collection 106, The Sam Shepard and Johnny Dark Collection.
Lawson, Wayne, November 10, 1982
Phillips, Jerrold, March 2, 1983
Berman, Lois, August 18, 1983
Cuyama Valley Exchange Club. August 29, 1983
Mitchell, Joni, circa 1983
Rogers, S[Sam], April 13, 1984
Gantcher, Neal(to Martin Licker), June 6, 1984
Kirwin, Lynne (to Lois Berman), June 27, 1984
Allen, Lewis (to Lois Berman), June 29, 1984
Shewey, Don (to Lois Berman), July 12, 1984
Shewey, Don, July 12, 1984
Berman, Lois, July 17, 1984
Allen, Lewis, July 17, 1984
McCrum, Robert (to Lois Berman), August 23, 1984
* restricted Shepard, Jesse, October 9, 1984
Lynn and Jack (first names only), November 26, 1984
* restricted Shepard, Jesse, February 20, 1985
Ward, Melinda, February 28, 1985
Weiler, Robert S., June 28, 1985
Allen, Lewis, July 3, 1985
Sato, Suzanne, July 8, 1985
* restricted Shepard, Jesse, February 2, 1986
Gotlieb, Howard, April 4, 1986. (Includes Boston University's Shepard collection listing.)
Klein, Don, April 25, 1988
Mark, Steven (to Martin Licker), June 7, 1988
Wenders, Wim, July 22, 1988
Crane, Joan, July 28, 1988
Crane, Joan, August 2, 1988
Wexler, Haskell, September 30, 1988
Wexler, Haskell, October 21, 1988
"Mom," November 2, 1988
Bryer, Jackson, November 30, 1988
Daugherty, Pat, December 19, 1988
Daniels, Barry, January 5, 1989
Berman, Lois, May 17, 1989. Includes "American Dreams" programs
Ford, Richard, August 10, 1989
Sinise, Gary, November 4, 1989
Jewell, Cathy, October 18, 1990
Halpern, Daniel, October 25,1990
Jewell, Cathy, October 25, 1990
Hill, Steve, December 18, 1990
Jewell, Cathy, January 14, 1991
Berman, Lois, January 17, 1991
Newman, Paul, May 15, 1991
Eberle, Martin, June 28, 1991, Includes six 9 1/2 x 11 1/2 black and white photographs of Shepard and others
"R.J."(initials only), October 8, 1992
Callens, Johan (to Lois Berman), October 30, 1992
Callens, Johan (to Lois Berman), October 1, 1993
Kulkhe, K., October 6, 1993
Shelley, Guy, March 15, 1994
Boals, Judy, April 15, 1994. Includes poster and slides from a Paris production of Icarus's Mother.
Boals, Judy, March 24, 1995. Includes Theater Hall of Fame program
O'Hearn, Patrick, March 12, 1996
West, Robert, Jr., March 17, 1996
Jones, O-Lan, March 21, 1996
Boals, Judy, April 19, 1996
Boals, Judy, April 22, 1996
Kirchwey, Karl, April 22, 1996
Morris, Tom (to Judy Boals), April 24, 1996
Houghton, James, April,25, 1996
McKimmie, Ilyse, May 1, 1996
West, Robert Jr., May 1, 1996
Boals, Judy, May 2, 1996
Oliver, Liz, May 2, 1996
Teale, Sarah, May 3, 1996
"New Yorker" editorial office, May 18, 1996
Giuliani, Rudolph, May 22, 1996. re: 50th anniversary of Tony Awards
Butcher, Peggy (to Judy Boals), May 23, 1996
Stevenson, Isabelle (June 6, 1996)
McCormick, Anne (to Luann Walther), June 10, 1996
Allen, Georgina, June 11, 1996. Includes cover art for Methuen publications of Plays 1 and 3.
Pacquette, Brian, June 25, 1996
Morris, Tom, July 24, 1996
Singer, Sally, August 6, 1996
Weinberg, Samantha, August 6, 1996
Morris, Tom, September 16, 1996
Carvalho, Jim, September 30, 1996
Notice from Academy of Arts and Letters re: death of Alan Ginsberg, April 5, 1997
Aronowitz, Al, May 1, 1997
Adolphe, Bruce (to Judy Boals), August 14, 1997
"Santo," October 21, 1997
Shepard, Sam (to Magic Theater), April 29, 1998
Boals, Judy, July 23, 1998
Callahan, Michael (to Judy Boals), September 14, 1998
"Freddie and Lara" (first names only)
McAdams, "Coach"
Multiple authors (first names only)
This series includes news clippings regarding Shepard and his work. A file of undated clippings also includes photocopied fragments of others' work, annotated by Shepard.
This series includes award certificates, correspondence, presentation programs, and clippings for awards Shepard received from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, among other institutions.
Common Wealth Awards in Dramatic Arts program and press release, 1988
American Academy of Arts and Sciences Fellow list of members selected, correspondence, and certificate, 1989
American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters Gold Medal for Drama program, 1992
Theater Hall of Fame Scroll of Honor presented by Rudolph Giuliani, Mayor of the City of New York certificate, 1995
Star on the Playwrights Sidewalk at the Lucille Lortel Theater, NYC. Certificate announcing the placement of the Star on the sidewalk, news clipping, 1988
This series is comprised of a conversation between Bob Dylan and Shepard, circa mid 1980s to early 1990s. No transcript currently exists for these 3 audiocassettes, but the tapes have been transferred to CD as listening copies. Also included are the typescript and galleys for an interview of Shepard by Paris Review, regarding Shepard's writing process, 1997, and an interview with Shepard on National Public Radio's "Fresh Air", August 1996.
This series is comprised of Shepard's notes, correspondence and annotated photocopies of excerpts of his work read at various events. Arranged in chronological order by the event's date.
Cover art proposals and galleys for compilations of Shepard's work published by Vintage and Bantam comprise this series.
Arranged by genre (articles, books, sound recordings, screenplays, short stories and teleplays), most of the works in this series are based on or inspired by Shepard's works. Authors mailed the works to Shepard for his comments, and many items include typescripts annotated by Shepard and correspondence.
Includes 4 posters that were removed from the collection and framed for exhibit. Additional unframed posters can be found listed within the collection.
Nine boxes of manuscripts, galley proofs, notes, clippings, correspondence, legal papers, photographs, poetry, screenplays, short stories and artifacts, 1957-1992, document the writing career of James Crumley. The collection has been arranged into five series: Works, 1965-1992; Correspondence, 1957-1986; Clippings 1971-1992; Personal Materials, 1957-1979; and Works by Others, undated.
The Works series comprises the largest part of the collection. It documents Crumley's writing process from drafts through proof copy or published work. The Novels subseries makes up the largest portion of the series, with the numerous Dancing Bear files documenting Crumley's changing ideas for titles and other aspects related to the novel. The Correspondence series contains mostly fan letters written to him, but also includes correspondence regarding the film rights for Crumley's novel, One to Count Cadence. The Personal series contains photographs, certificates and legal documents related to Crumley's education, military career, and marriages. Works by Others include screenplays based on Crumley's novel The Last Good Kiss, and poetry.
This series has been arranged in chronological order by date of the novel's creation. This is the largest series, with the numerous Dancing Bear files documenting Crumley's changing ideas for titles and other aspects related to the novel. Although multiple drafts of each work are present, the drafts typically include only the first few chapters of the work. The specific portions of each work represented and any variant titles are identified by the folder titles. Each of Crumley's novels is represented here, including one unpublished novel, by the title "Meat."
This series has been arranged in alphabetical order by title, and includes mainly annotated typescripts and fragments of each short story, as well as one galley, and one carbon copy.
Arranged in alphabetical order by title of screenplay, this series includes typescripts of screenplays based on Crumley's novels Dancing Bear and The Last Good Kiss, as well others not based on Crumley's novels.
This series is arranged alphabetically by title and includes two annotated typescripts of poems apparently written by Crumley.
Arranged in order from earliest to most recent, the correspondence in this series consists largely of fan letters written to Crumley, as well as two 1957 letters from Senator Lyndon Baines Johnson congratulating Crumley on his scholastic achievements. Several drafts of letters written by Crumley are also included, such as a 1969 letter to MGM studios regarding a film treatment of One to Count Cadence.
This series includes newspaper and magazine articles related to Crumley's literary career.
This series contains photographs, certificates and legal documents related to Crumley's education, military career, and marriages, as well as a steel hardhat and cap.
Subseries A: Screenplays (undated)
Arranged in alphabetical order by author, this subseries includes two screenplays based on Crumley's novel The Last Good Kiss.
Subseries B: Poetry (undated)
Also arranged in alphabetical order by author, this subseries includes poetry by Kathy Callaway (1 folder), various authors (1 folder), and unidentified authors (1 folder).
Annotated drafts, typescripts, page proofs, galleys, correspondence, photographs, notes, and newsclippings dating from 1984-2001 represent the writing career of award-winning children's book writer, Angela Shelf Medearis.
Over one half of the collection is comprised of materials related to the development and creation of Medearis' works (children's books, books for young readers, cookbooks, articles, poetry, and video projects). Other series include Correspondence, Subject Files, Newsclippings, Publicity, Awards, Calendars, Photographs, Personal Programs, and Artwork, the bulk of which also relate directly to Medearis' writing career.
Annotated drafts, typescripts, page proofs, galleys, correspondence, and notes represent the creation and development of Medearis' children books. Materials have been arranged in chronological order, beginning with the earliest dates. Extensive annotated drafts and correspondence with editors and illustrators makes this series highly illustrative of Medearis' working process. Additional publisher and editor correspondence can be found in the Correspondence series, and Publicity correspondence in the Publicity series.
Annotated drafts, typescripts, page proofs, galleys, correspondence, and notes represent the creation and development of Medearis' books for young readers. Materials have been arranged in chronological order, beginning with the earliest dates. Extensive annotated drafts and correspondence with editors and illustrators makes this series highly illustrative of Medearis' working process. Additional publisher and editor correspondence can be found in the Correspondence series, and Publicity correspondence in the Publicity series.
Annotated drafts, typescripts, and correspondence represent the creation and development of Medearis' cookbooks. Materials have been arranged in chronological order, beginning with the earliest dates.
This series includes drafts of essays and articles. Some include minimal editorial correspondence, and some include copy of item as published. Includes one piece by Michael Medearis.
This series contains drafts and performance photographs of Medearis' plays.
Poetry, includes mostly undated typescripts, few handwritten drafts. Many files include a single version of a poem, and some include multiple annotated drafts. The bulk of the poems seem to date from late 1980s. They are arranged alphabetically.
Proposals, script treatments, correspondence, and notes represent the creation and development of Medearis' video projects. Materials have been arranged in chronological order, beginning with the earliest dates
Notes for unidentified projects.
This series has been divided into the following subseries: A. Letters from Children (1989-1999), B. Publisher correspondence (1987-2000), C. Author visits / appearances (1988-2000), and D. General (1984-2000). Each of these subseries has been arranged chronologically by year.
Letters from Children generally include letters from schoolchildren thanking Medearis for visiting their school as an author/storyteller, some wrote to ask about her writing career or personal life. Includes one undated oversize card from Medearis' granddaughter, Anysa.
Publisher correspondence includes interaction between Medearis and the various publishing company staff editors, advertising agents, and special event planners. Some letters relate to specific titles, while others relate to several titles or to Medearis' career in general.
Subseries C. Author visits / appearances, includes requests, confirmations, and thank you notes related to storytelling visits and appearances made by Medearis at schools, reading groups, and other locations. General correspondence does not fall into any of these categories, and tends to include topics such as professional memberships, fundraising. It also includes early correspondence related to Medearis pre-writing career.
Clippings, correspondence, pamphlets, and information packets related to subjects of interest to Medearis comprise this series. The files have been arranged in alphabetical order by subject file name.
Many of the newsclippings in this series are about Medearis, others simply represent her interests. Clippings have been arranged in chronological order by year.
This series is comprised of biographical notes, resumes, book catalogs, correspondence, mailing lists, and photographs related to the commercial promotion of Medearis' books
Includes correspondence regarding awards and honors received, as well as those applied for and not received. Includes certificate for Teddy Children's Book Award, 1996.
This series includes a calendar from 1996 and one from 1997. Each calendar notes daily appointments, while some months contain no information.
Photographs taken by Medearis or other unidentified photographers comprise the bulk of this series. Formats for these images include color and black and white slides, photoprints, and negatives. Photographs of Medearis and her family are present in color and black and white print formats
Correspondence, videotapes, and clippings relate to Medearis' involvement in Book Boosters, Children's Radio Bookmobile, and Special Sitters.
This series includes three color renderings of various subjects, by unidentified child and adult artists, with the exception of one piece by 4th grade student Ravi Nair.
This collection is comprised of eight annotated pages of Villanueva's working drafts of the Cabeza de Vaca poem titled Cuento del Cronista, published in Crónica de mis años peores (Chronicle of My Worst Years), 1994, one black and white 8x10 public relations photo mounted on foam core and two posters promoting two separate lectures dated November 6, 1996 for the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center and March 11, 1998 for Texas State University.
The Jan Reid collection span the years from 1976 to 1988 and includes working drafts, photographs and correspondence relating to Reid's career as a journalist and novelist. They are arranged according to the following series: Books (1974-1986), Articles and Stories (1975-1994, undated), and Correspondence (1976-1993, undated)
This series contains examples of the writing and book production process including drafts, rewrites, galley proofs, dust jackets, reviews and photographs for three of Reid's published books: The Improbable Rise of Redneck Rock, Deer in Water, and Vain Glory. The bulk of these materials relate to Deer in Water. Material is arranged in chronological order by date of publication.
This subseries covers Reid's contributions to Texas Monthly and other publications. This file contains articles and stories on various subjects, which include the Grand Canyon, Bob Eckhardt and Larry McMurtry. The subseries contains research, photographs, drafts and correspondence relating to his subjects. Material is arranged in chronological order by date of publication. Also included here are eight undated annotated drafts gathered together by Reid for the PEN-newspaper competition and the Paisano stories, none of which were ever submitted.
This series contains annotated correspondence from Shelby Hearon and Ann Richards addressed to Reid dating from 1976-1993 as well as one letter from Jeff Guinn addressed to Shelby Hearon. The correspondence is arranged in chronological order, and describes writing projects, personal matters, and a thank you note from Ann Richards.
Research notes, annotated typescripts, correspondence, photographs, and newsclippings in the Elizabeth Crook papers range in date from 1984-2000, and relate mainly to Crook's novels of historical fiction, Raven's Bride (1991), and Promised Lands: A Novel of the Texas Rebellion (1994).
This series includes extensive research files and many annotated typescripts of Crook's first novel. The research files include clippings, handwritten notes, photographs, and correspondence with research assistant Eva B. Denning, of Gallatin, TN, 1984-90. The typescripts have been arranged in alphabetical order by working titles.
This series includes research files and annotated typescripts of Crook's second novel. The typescripts have been arranged in alphabetical order by the various working titles. Correspondence includes a letter from John Graves commenting on Promised Lands, editorial correspondence with Jackie Onassis, and correspondence regarding publicity. Also includes one black and white publicity photo of Crook by Dan Flores.
Typescripts of three articles by Crook.
The mailing lists in this series include personal and business contacts, as well as lists for publicity purposes, such as newspaper lists.
This series includes news clippings, reviews, and select editorial correspondence, as maintained by Crook
Numerous typescript drafts, correspondence, notes, clippings, journals and photographs, ranging in date from 1950-1998, document Beverly Lowry's writing career. The bulk of the papers relate to four of Lowry's seven published books, with The Perfect Sonya and Crossed Over being the most fully represented.
The series is organized in the following subseries:
Novels (1978-1998)
Annotated typescripts for Daddy's Girl, The Perfect Sonya, Crossed Over, and The Track of Real Desires comprise the bulk of this subseries, with extensive research notes, correspondence, and photographs related to Crossed Over. Correspondence includes letters from Lowry to Karla Faye Tucker, 1989-1992, 1998, plus scattered letters from Jackie Oncken, John Adams of Great Britain, Ronald Kuntz of Ohio, and Dee Dee of Dallas.
Poetry (undated)
Works in this subseries are undated, although they appear to date from early on in Lowry's career. Poems have been arranged in alphabetical order by title; most are handwritten or typed.
Short Stories (undated)
Lowry's short stories have been arranged in alphabetical order. Although they are undated, it is probable that some date from as early as the late 1970s, when Lowry began writing short stories, some of which became novels. One story at the end of this subseries is by Glenn Lowry.
Articles / Reviews by Lowry (1979-1998)
This subseries includes a sampling of Lowry's published articles and reviews of books by others. Apart from one annotated galley, the remaining six articles and reviews are strictly photocopies of the published item.
Research papers and school notes (1956-1959, undated)
These research papers and school notes are from Lowry's drama and music coursework at the University of Mississippi and at Memphis State University, and are arranged in alphabetical order.
Sketches (undated)
One folder of pencil sketches of flowers, human figures, and other subjects, undated and unsigned, but likely by Lowry.
This series is comprised of one folder of correspondence including personal notes and publishers' requests of Lowry to read specific books and comment on them.
Newsclippings in this series relate to Lowry's writing career, and have been arranged chronologically.
Four undated photographs are included in this series: 3 black and white photographs of a Come Back, Lolly Ray manuscript exhibit, and 1 color photograph of Lowry at a book signing for the short story compilation, Common Bonds, with other authors
Fourteen 5.5" floppy disks, many labeled as "Pauline," which was a working title for The Perfect Sonya.
This series includes journals, a college diploma, and materials related to Lowry's sons. The three bound journals are undated, and include notes about Lowry's daily life and writing projects. The college diploma is from Memphis State University, 1960, and includes a torn photograph of Lowry from that time period. The materials related to Lowry's sons include poetry and drawings to and by Peter and Colin Lowry.
This series contains one item: a Kaypro word processor.
These papers represent drafts of several of Gipson's short stories, screenplays, and one nonfiction autobiographical piece, arranged by genre and in chronological order, with dates ranging from 1948-1957, and many items having no date. For each item there is typically one annotated typescript and one final draft typescript, along with a custom made folding box for the items related to each title. Of particular note is the 1957 shooting script for the Walt Disney film production of Gipson's Old Yeller, which also includes a letter from Gipson to Joe Small.
These papers are comprised of annotated drafts, typescripts, and correspondence relating to an essay by Gilb which was commissioned by Texas Monthly in 2000. The magazine declined to publish the story as Gilb envisioned it, and it was later published in Harper's as "Blue Eyes, Brown Eyes: A Pocho Tours Mexico," June 2001. Dates range from 2000-2001.
The Jay Milner papers cover 1960-1994 and consist of newspaper clippings of columns and reviews written by Milner, personal correspondence, photographs, and print materials. Series include I. Works (1960-1994,) II. Correspondence (1960-1993,) III. Photographs (undated) and Printed Materials (1970-1977).
Works includes clippings of columns and reviews which Milner wrote during his days as a contributor to several newspapers, including the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, the Lufkin Daily News, and the Nacogdoches Daily Sentinel. The clippings are arranged in chronological order, and acid-free photocopies have been made of all clippings.
This series includes Milner's correspondence. Most of the letters are dealing with personal issues between friends. The letters are mostly those sent by friends to Milner. In some cases, Milner attached copies of his replies to the letters. Milner often grouped letters together with staples. These groupings have been retained, and each group is filed by the date of the letter at the beginning of the group. The series is further divided into correspondence with Larry L. King; Bud Shrake; John Edward Weems; and General Correspondence.
Includes correspondence from writer Billie Lee Brammer, Jim Fain, John Henry Faulk, Jody Gent, Grace, Keith Gregory, Dorys C. Grover, John O. Lumpkins, Otto Mullinax, Lloyd A. Storrs, M.D., W.K. Stratton, Frances B. Vick, and Susan Walker.
Photographs Series consists of five black and white snapshots of Billie Lee Brammer, Bud Shrake, Larry McMurtry, A.C. Greene, and Jay Milner.
Programs and invitations for Willie Nelson's 4th of July Picnics, one copy of Texas Music magazine, one copy of The Nieman Reports, one copy of The Quill, and the original manilla envelope in which the materials were originally kept by Milner. The majority of the articles relate to Willie Nelson.
The bulk of these papers is comprised of annotated typescripts and page proofs of Dr. Calvert's collaborative book projects focusing on Texas history and culture. A small amount of editorial correspondence exists for some books. Dates range from 1970-1994, bulk dates 1987-1994
Contains research, drafts, and a published copy of the article "Nineteenth-Century Farmers, Cotton, and Prosperity"
This series is the largest of the series, and is comprised mainly of annotated typescripts and page proofs of books written by or edited by Robert Calvert. Publications are arranged in order by publication date, and range in date from 1970-1994, bulk dates 1987-1994. While most books are represented almost exclusively by typescripts and page proofs, files for Texas History and the Move into the 21st Century (Calvert and Buenger, eds., 1990) also include correspondence and reports related to the grant which funded the book, and some editorial correspondence.
Dr. Calvert has served as an historical consultant to publishers and to historical associations, as the two files of examples in this series show.
The smallest of the series, this file of correspondence includes three letters relating to book orders and other routine, non-editorial matters.
The Austin City Limits Collection spans the years from 1974 to 2002. It is a diverse collection that contains material and artifacts documenting Austin City Limits and artists connected with the show. The collection was compiled by Bill Arhos (co-creator, executive producer and program director for Austin City Limits), and also documents the Austin Film Festival and PBS-KLRU/KLRN.
The collection includes press clippings, publicity materials, photographs, correspondence, galley proofs for the book Austin City Limits by Cliff Endres, and ephemera such as t-shirts, hats, backstage passes, posters, and tickets. Of particular interest are the press clippings and publicity items. These materials serve as a valuable supplement for other research resources to reveal a comprehensive portrait of the operations and history of the show.
Also included in the collection is memorabilia from Austin City Limits, related artists, the Austin Film Festival, and the Ned Blessing film production, including t-shirts, ball caps, backstage passes, promo art, postcards, tickets, and other miscellanea. Notable is the Arhos-compiled scrapbook (box 4), which was begun in the early days of the show, but not completed. During processing of the collection, it was scanned, then disassembled.
Also included is the typewriter upon which Arhos wrote the proposal to PBS to fund the Austin City Limits pilot.
Three Austin City Limits Lone Star Beer publicity posters, 1976; Austin City Limits "Where the Music Lives" poster; Austin City Limits Budweiser beer publicity poster, "Swingin' Over the Rainbow;"
Willie Nelson's 3rd Annual Fourth of July Picnic poster, 1975;
3 album cover proofs for The Earl Scruggs Revue: Live! From Austin City Limits
Uncorrected galley proofs
Baseball caps: Austin City Limits; Waylon Jennings; American Music Shop; Jerry Jeff Walker; George Strait; TNN [The Nashville Network]; The Mavericks; Ned Blessing; Plum Creek
The papers of magazine editor, playwright, novelist, and screenwriter, William Broyles, Jr., span the years 1962 to the 2002 and are arranged into the following series: Personal Papers, Magazines, Books (Published and Unpublished), Plays, Television Projects (General, Produced, and Unproduced), Film Projects (Produced and Unproduced), Writings by Others, and Videocassettes.
The first series, Personal Papers (boxes 1-14), documents Broyles's early interests and activities outside of his writing career. Included is a 1962 diary, general correspondence, materials relating to his work with the Houston Independent School District, subject files, and travel ephemera. There is little material in this series relating to his service in Vietnam, nor to his time as Marshall Scholar at Oxford University.
The second series, Magazines (boxes 15-84), documents Broyles's leadership and involvement in a number of prominent magazines including Texas Monthly, New West/California, Newsweek, and Cable Guide. There is also material relating to Broyles's magazine freelance projects. Broyles served as the founding editor of Texas Monthly magazine from 1972-1980, and those records comprise the bulk of this series. They provide insight into the history and development of the magazine, and Broyles's vision as editor.
Series three, Books - Published (boxes 85-92), includes correspondence, research, typescripts, and reviews of Broyles's 1986 novel, Brothers in Arms: A Journey from War to Peace. The novel describes Broyles's return trip to Vietnam in 1984, and it was met with critical success. Series four, Books - Unpublished (boxes 93-94), includes research materials and drafts of an unpublished novel about Billy the Kid. Broyles has written one play, Boot, and materials relating to that project comprise the fifth series of the Broyles Papers, Plays (boxes 95-96). Notes, drafts, and correspondence of the play form this series.
Series six through eight document Broyles's success in television projects. Series six, Television - General (box 96) contains information about television programming, networks, and individuals in the business. Series seven, Television Projects - Produced (boxes 97-183) includes a wide body of materials relating to the two television projects Broyles created, China Beach and Under Cover, as well as the television mini series he wrote, J.F.K.: Reckless Youth. Research, notes, scripts, production files, and reviews document these projects. Series eight, Television Projects – Unproduced (boxes 183-189) contains script materials and idea outlines for several television projects Broyles worked on but that remain un-produced.
Broyles' work in film is reflected in the next two series. Series nine, Film Projects – Produced (boxes 190-233), includes materials relating to the following films: Apollo 13 (1995), Entrapment (1999), Cast Away (2000), Planet of the Apes (2001), and Unfaithful (2002). Correspondence, research, notes, scripts, and reviews document these films. Broyles's work on the various projects often overlapped, so this series is arranged chronologically according to the release date of each film. The tenth series, Film Projects - Unproduced (233-241), contains materials for a number of film projects that have not been produced. Arranged alphabetically by working title, these projects include "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep," "Earth Angel," "Hard Rock: There Are No Limits," "R&R," and an untitled baseball project.
The eleventh series, Writings by Others (boxes 242-246), contains a number of television and motion picture scripts written by individuals other than Broyles, and the final series, Videocassettes (boxes 247-264), includes a number of video taped episodes and some dailies from China Beach, Under Cover, and other television projects.
The series Personal Papers documents Broyles's early interests and activities outside of his writing career. Included are a 1962 diary and general correspondence (arranged chronologically). While the bulk of Broyles's Texas Monthly correspondence is housed in Series II: Magazines, this selection of personal correspondence does include some letters addressed to him as editor of the magazine.
Broyles' early career with the Houston Independent School District is also represented in this series. He was employed there from 1971-1972 as Chief Public Relations Officer in charge of community relations, and these personnel files contain reports, correspondence, and other evidence of his work on behalf of the schools in the area.
Subject files are arranged alphabetically and demonstrate a wide variety of interests. Of note are materials relating to Rice University including a copy of the 1983 commencement speech he delivered as well as materials relating to his receipt in 1993 of the distinguished alumni award. Other speeches can be found in Series II: Magazines (box 25), notably a 1976 speech delivered to Rice University, and speeches before the Houston Philosophical Society, Robert E. Lee High School, and the American Society of Magazine Editors.
Also included in the Personal Papers series are journals, tickets, brochures, itineraries, and correspondence from his travels in Europe in the 1970s and 1980s.
This series documents Broyles' leadership and involvement in a number of prominent magazines including Texas Monthly, New West/California, Newsweek, and Cable Guide. There is also material relating to several of Broyles's magazine freelance projects. The series is arranged by magazine.
The bulk of the Magazine Series relates to Texas Monthly. Broyles was the founding editor of the magazine and served in that role until 1980. Correspondence, Subject Files, Administrative Records, and Issue Files comprise this series.
Correspondence (boxes 15-31) is arranged chronologically, with a few notable exceptions: correspondence between Executive Editor, Greg Curtis and other individuals are separate (box 19), as are query letters sent to Broyles (boxes 20-21), Roar of the Crowd correspondence - primarily letters to the editor (boxes 22-24) speeches (box 25), and Broyles' personal Texas Monthly related correspondence (boxes 26-27) which includes a 1977 telegram from President Jimmy Carter. While the majority of manuscripts in the Texas Monthly series are housed within the Issue Files (boxes 51-59), there are a few that can be found in the Correspondence series (box 24, folders 3-4). These include articles by Bartee Haile, Stephen Harrigan, Prudence Mackintosh, William C. Martin, and Chase Untermeyer. The Correspondence series also includes interoffice memos, Broyles' scheduling correspondence, and "green sheets" – daily memos between Broyles and his assistant (boxes 28-31).
Subject Files (boxes 33-46) comprise the second largest portion of the Texas Monthly series, and are arranged alphabetically. The files vary between subjects, but the types of materials found within include correspondence, writings by or about the subjects, clippings, and photographs. Some subjects have fuller files than others. Notable among these are: Gary Cartwright, Greg Curtis, Steve Harrigan, Shelby Hearon, Harry Hurt III, Larry L. King, Larry McMurtry, Bill Porterfield, Dick Reavis, Jan Reid, Al Reinert, Bud Shrake, and Richard West. Also of interest is a research paper about the history of the Texas Monthly housed within the subject file for Sigma Delta Chi.
Administrative Files (boxes 46-51) is a broad series that includes meeting files, legal, editorial, publicity and marketing files, and notes documenting the day-today running of the magazine.
Perhaps the most notable materials within the Texas Monthly series are the Issue Files (boxes 51-59). In addition to correspondence and notes on each issue, this series include typescripts of many of the articles published during Broyles' tenure with the magazine (boxes 55-59). Arranged chronologically by issue, there are typescripts by authors such as Billy Brammer, William Broyles, Jr., Gary Cartwright, Gregory Curtis, Stephen Harrigan, Larry L. King, Michael Levy, Beverly Lowry, Prudence Mackintosh, Jan Reid, Al Reinert, Griffin Smith, Jr., and Richard West.
Broyles served as editor-in-chief of New West / California from 1980-1982, and correspondence, administrative files, and issue files document his involvement with the magazine. The correspondence series is arranged alphabetically and includes letters from fellow administrators such as magazine president Ted Siff, as well as many authors including Gary Cartwright, Harry Hurt, III, Larry L. King, Ben Stein, and Richard West. Administrative Files is comprised of meeting files, notes, idea files, and publicity and marketing files. Of interest within this series are materials documenting the name change of the magazine from New West to California (boxes 65-66). And finally, Issue Files, contains critiques, "Behind the Lines" files, and a handful of annotated typescripts.
Broyles was appointed editor-in-chief of Newsweek from 1982-1984. Correspondence, editorial files, speeches, and subject files document his leadership of this magazine. General correspondence is arranged chronologically, followed by alphabetical correspondence files for individuals such as Jonathan Alter, Katherine Graham, Peter McGrath, Richard West, and George Will. Also within the Newsweek series are speeches Broyles made while serving as editor-in-chief. Included are his remarks at the Lincoln Center, the New York City Vietnam Memorial, and Rice University commencement.
In 1986, Broyles and his colleagues bought Cable Guide magazine. This small series includes files relating to the acquisition of the magazine, financial materials, and other administrative records.
In addition to his employment at several prominent magazines, Broyles frequently contributed articles to other publications through freelance work. This series includes drafts of articles and correspondence relating to work done for American Heritage, Atlantic Monthly, Esquire, New York Times, Reader's Digest, Texas Monthly, and U.S. News and World Report.
Background information, notes and research, typescripts, correspondence, and reviews document Broyles's 1986 novel, Brothers in Arms: A Journey from War to Peace. The novel describes Broyles's trip to Vietnam in 1984. Background information includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, and a 1969 photograph of Broyles in his "study." Notes and research includes notebooks, note cards, and preliminary drafts and fragments. The development of the novel can be traced further through the succession of typescripts and drafts including corrected typescripts, galleys, and proofs. And finally, correspondence from readers, reviewers as well as from Broyles's friends and associates document the positive reception that the book received.
This small series includes notes, research, and various drafts for an unpublished novel titled "Billy the Kid."
This series includes notes, drafts, and correspondence for a play titled Boot (early working title, "Blown Away: A Play in Two Acts.") The play takes place in a bunker in Vietnam and focuses on three marines: Crockett, Dupree, and Mills, joined by a new recruit they nickname "Boot." The plot follows the young men as they try to cope with the realities of war.
This small series contains information about television programming, networks, directors, writers, actors and actresses.
This series documents Broyles's work on several television projects including the award-winning Vietnam era series China Beach, as well as Under Cover / The Company and the television mini series J.F.K.: Reckless Youth.
Broyles co-created China Beach with John Sacret Young in 1988. The series follows the lives of doctors, nurses and other civilians living on an American military base in Vietnam and stars Dana Delany, Michael Boatman, Marg Helgenberger, and Robert Picardo. Broyles wrote or co-wrote many of the early episodes, and he remained producer and creative consultant throughout the run of the show. The hour-long drama aired weekly on ABC from 1988-1991. Included among the series' many awards is the 1990 Golden Globes award for best dramatic television series.
Research, story development files, scripts, notebooks, episode files, production files, financial materials, reports, correspondence, and other administrative files document the production of China Beach. The first two series, research and story development, highlight Broyles's
early work developing the show and include files on a variety of topics including attitudes about the conflict, character backgrounds, locations, the role of American civilians in Vietnam, and medical information. Scripts (boxes 100-118) comprise the bulk of the China Beach series, They are arranged chronologically according to the date originally aired. Broyles and John Sacret Young co-wrote the Pilot that first aired in April 1988. Broyles has writing credits on four other scripts including "Home," "Chao Ong," and "Lost and Found" (Parts I and II). Other items of note in this series include the production files with casting, set, music, and shooting information. Any video copies of individual episodes were removed to Series XII: Videocassettes, at the end of this collection (boxes 247-248).
In 1991, Broyles developed his second television project, Under Cover, an espionage series about a husband-and-wife secret agent team. It stars Anthony John Denison and Linda Purl. Broyles holds creator, co-writing, and co-executive producing credits, but the series was short-lived in the United States. It had a slightly more successful run in the United Kingdom as The Company. Research files, story development, scripts, notebooks, episode files, production materials, and correspondence document the production of Under Cover. The scripts series comprises the bulk of the material (boxes 137-162) and includes complete scripts for each of the aired episodes, as well as scripts for unaired episodes and outlines for incomplete ones. Any video copies of individual episodes were removed to Series XII: Videocassettes, at the end of this collection (boxes 249-261).
In 1993, Broyles adapted the Nigel Hamilton novel, J.F.K.: Reckless Youth for television. The mini-series of the same names follows the future president during his formative first thirty years and stars Patrick Dempsey as the young J.F.K. Notebooks, script drafts, and correspondence document Broyles' work on the teleplay.
Between 1991 and 1993, Broyles worked on developing a handful of television projects that were never produced. Included are South Central, Hot on the Trail, and Adventure, Inc. / Angels Camp. This series includes research files, story development, scripts, correspondence, and other materials relating to the various projects.
In 1993, Broyles turned his attention from television projects to writing feature films. This series includes materials relating to the following films: Apollo 13 (1995), Entrapment (1999), Cast Away (2000), Planet of the Apes (2001), and Unfaithful (2002). Broyles' work on various projects often overlapped, so this series is arranged chronologically according to the year each film was released.
Broyles shares his first major motion picture writing credits with former Texas Monthly writer, Al Reinert. Based loosely upon Apollo 13 astronaut Jim Lovell's novel Lost Moon co-written with Jeffrey Kluger, the 1995 film marks Broyles' first collaboration with director Ron Howard.
The Apollo 13 series is arranged chronologically, reflecting the development of the project. The first subseries, correspondence (box 190), includes letters between Broyles and Michael Bostick, Broyles' assistant, Sheila Gallion, James Lovell, and Al Reinert. The next four subseries: research, notes, story development, and scripts (boxes 190-195), highlight Broyles and Reinert's writing process. Of note within the research files are the book proposal and typescript of Lost Moon. The scripts subseries includes multiple revisions of each draft of the screenplay. Following the scripts, there are a number of files relating to Broyles' and Reinert's WGA writers credit arbitration (boxes 195-196) that provide insight into the complex legalities of the craft.
The final subseries of the Apollo 13 materials are production files, publicity materials, and awards. Broyles and Reinert were nominated for an Academy Award for their work, as well as a Golden Globe, a Pen Center USA West Literary Award, and a Writers Guild Award. Of interest in the awards subseries is a videotaped message of congratulations from Ron Howard (box 197), a celebratory bottle of champagne, and numerous letters of congratulations.
In 1998, Broyles was hired to rewrite the Y2K caper, Entrapment, starring Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta Jones. Broyles shares writing credits with Ron Bass and Don Macpherson, both of whom worked on earlier versions of the screenplay. Correspondence, research, scripts (including drafts by Bass and Macpherson), production materials, and videocassettes document Broyles' contribution to the film.
The largest amount of material within the produced films series relates to Broyles's work on Cast Away. Broyles had the idea for the original film about a FedEx delivery driver stranded on a deserted island, and he saw it through from start to finish. This series of material provides valuable insight into the process of developing and writing an original motion picture. The 2000 film was produced by Ron Howard and Brian Grazer, directed by Robert Zemeckis, and stars Tom Hanks. Broyles's letters and memos with these individuals can be found within the correspondence series.
The bulk of the Cast Away series is comprised of scripts. Broyles's entire writing process is evident from his early notes to the final shooting script. In all, there are over one hundred revised versions of the script. Many contain or refer to notes by Broyles, Sheila Gallien, Tom Hanks, and Robert Zemeckis. Additional materials within the Cast Away series are production files on art, casting, and schedules; publicity records, awards, and artifacts including a promotional Wilson volleyball and a coconut tree bark mask.
Broyles shares writing credits on the 2001 Tim Burton film, Planet of the Apes. The film is based on the Pierre Boule novel of the same name, and stars Mark Wahlberg, Tim Roth, and Helena Bonham Carter. Correspondence, research materials (including copies of Boule's novel and previous Apes films), scripts, and writers credit arbitration files, and publicity materials document Broyles's contribution to the film.
This small series includes correspondence, notes, and writers arbitration materials relating to Broyles's work on the 2002 film, Unfaithful, starring Diane Lane and Richard Gere.
This series contains research materials, notes, scripts, and correspondence for a number of film projects that have not been produced. Arranged alphabetically by working title, these projects include: "Baa Baa Black Sheep", "Earth Angel" (a.k.a. "Huey and the War Lover"), "Hard Rock: There Are No limits," "R&R," "Terrible Beauty: Stories From a War," and an untitled baseball project.
This series contains a number of television and motion picture scripts by other writers. Many were sent as writing samples to Broyles in his role of producer for China Beach and Under Cover. Some of the television projects represented are 21 Jump Street, Cagney and Lacey, Law and Order, Miami Vice, and Thirty-Something.
This series includes VHS cassettes of China Beach and Under Cover episodes, a few dailies from these shows, as well as some ¾ inch NTSC cassettes.
Correspondence, printed material, handwritten notes, tearsheets, newspaper clippings, published magazines, and one VHS cassette (1 linear foot), document the literary career of the author and posthumous publication of her works.
Maintained by the author and her family, Personal Documents contain only a few materials related to Winifred Sanford's university career and her funeral. These documents provide biographical data about the author. Included are photocopies of University of Michigan class record and Alumni information, the Minister's notes for Sanford's funeral service, and "Dallas Unitarian," newsletter announcing Sanford's death.
The Correspondence Series is arranged chronologically and constitutes the bulk of the record group. The Winifred Sanford subseries, 1924- 1982, is divided into two categories, the first of which contains letters documenting her literary career. Of special interest are numerous letters to and from H. L. Mencken, many of which contain his encouragements and advice to her, (see Correspondence List). The series also includes original incoming letters written by publishers and editors to Winifred Sanford as well as carbon copies of typed letters and handwritten drafts of her responses to them. Of note is an incomplete list of her own short stories drawn up by the author on June 26,1958. The second category includes personal letters written to the author after the private printing in 1980 of her collected short stories, entitled Windfall and Other Stories.
The Helen Sanford subseries, 1981 - 2003, for the most part contains correspondence to and from Winifred Sanford's daughter, Helen J. Sanford, at the end of the author's life and after her death. It is also subdivided into two categories, the first of which reflects the efforts of various publishing companies to gain permission from the Sanford family to reprint Winifred Sanford's short stories in anthologies and collections. Of note is a letter to Betty Wiesepape granting her permission to use Sanford's correspondence for her Master's thesis entitled Winifred Sanford: Her Life and Times. This thesis is catalogued in the SWWC book collection. Also included are letters and contracts regarding the 1988 publication of Windfall and Other Stories as well as the family's wish to donate Sanford's papers to the Wittliff Collections. The second category contains personal letters written to Helen Sanford regarding her mother's death and the death of Suzanne Comer, senior editor at SMU who was instrumental in publishing the 1988 printing of Windfall.
The Writings Series is divided into the Published Works subseries, 1924 - 1988, and the Unpublished Works subseries, 1945 - 1986. The first contains tearsheets and photocopies of Sanford's published short stories, arranged alphabetically by title. Of special interest is a collection of eight of Sanford's short stories and one article gathered by her mother-in-law Helen Hall Sanford and placed in a small folder for posterity. Original copies of the American Mercury and Woman's Home Companionare catalogued and housed separately in order to better preserve these fragile items. Copies of Windfall (1980 and 1988) are also included in the SWWC book collection. Also contained within this subseries are original receipts and Assignments of Copyright for Sanford's short stories sold to the American Mercury and the Paget Literary Agency, as well as materials relating to Mira von Hollander-Munkh's German translation of "The Forest Fire."
The second subseries contains various unpublished materials, arranged alphabetically by title. Included are a typewritten copy of an "Choosing Your Type of Story," an outline prepared by Winifred Sanford in the 1940s on how to write a short story, two typewritten copies of "Deep C," a short story submitted to several magazines in 1945 but not published, "Memories" and "Memories by Buttercup Bailey," two undated, handwritten works by Winifred Mahon when she was a child, and two undated copies of "Star in the East," found among the possessions of Winifred Sanford's sister after the latter's death in 1986.
The Reviews Series contains photocopies and original reviews of Winifred Sanford's works. The bulk of this material pertains to reviews of the 1988 printing of Windfall. Included are materials relating to the 1996 "Arts and Letters Live," in which "Windfall" was read by Sheriden Thomas.
Collected and maintained by Winifred Sanford and her family, the Works by Others Series includes materials that were not written by Sanford. Represented are an article by Anne Pence Davis and a story by Fay M. Yauger, both members of the Wichita Falls Manuscript Club. In addition, there are various tearsheets of articles on how to write short stories from the Writer's Digest, and a typewritten screenplay for and VHS cassette of The Stars Fell on Henrietta. This film was based on Sanford's short story "Luck" and was written by her grandson, Philip Railsbeck. It is catalogued and housed in the SWWC book collection.
The Clippings Series contains photocopies and original newspaper clippings pertaining to various topics of interest to Sanford or to her family: a 1947 newspaper clipping about oilfield jargon; a broadside from the Southwestern Writers Collection; newspaper articles about Texas painter Jerry Bywaters, whose painting "Oil Field Girls" appeared on the cover of Windfall (1988); materials relating to the death of Suzanne Comer.
Personal papers, correspondence, newspaper clippings, magazine articles, computer disks and numerous copies of Hughes short stories, story lines, poems, and letters to editors fill .75 linear feet (2 boxes) documenting the writing of Hughes's 2002 Puckerbrush Press book, Cora's Seduction and Other Stories. 
The collection is arranged in four main series, Personal Documents, Correspondence with James Kelman, Computer Disks, and Writings by Hughes. The first series contains letters and documents of a personal nature to Hughes and vary in subject matter. The second series consists exclusively of correspondence with James Kelman, editor of Cora's Seduction. Numerous letters from Kelman include newspaper and magazine clippings related to the book. The third series of the collection is Computer Disks related to the publication of the book.
Series four comprises the bulk of the collection. Writings by Hughes includes drafts of all of the stories published in Cora's Seduction: "Cora's Seduction," "In a Strange Land," "A Few Spoken Words," "Life Blood," "Welcome Strangers, and Others Too," "Third House, on the Left," "Reunion," "Torn Leaves," and "The Long Drive," as well as drafts of numerous other short stories, story lines, poems, poem ideas, that were not selected for the compilation. Further description of this and other series in the collection are available in the following section.
Arranged chronologically, Personal Documents contains letters, a postcard, an e-mail print-out, an application, and personal information generated by Hughes or her family members. Included are letters by Hughes' daughter and son as well as a response to an e-mail addressed to Hughes, Hughes' application to the Authors Guild, and her curriculum vitae.
Letter to Hughes from daughter, January 3, 1977
E-mail letter by son to Hughes, June 14, 1999
E-mail letter from James Bryant and Mary Hill to Hughes, August 9, 1999
Internet Authors Guild Application, August 16, 1999
Postcard from daughter to Connie Hunting, June 10, 2002
Hughes curriculum vitae, undated
Arranged chronologically, Correspondence includes letters and related material dealing exclusively with James Kelman and the publication of Cora's Seduction. Included are letters from Kelman to Hughes with notes, newspaper clippings and magazine articles about Kelman, and a review Hughes did of Kelman's work.
October 14, 1977, includes note
June 21, 1979
July 14, 1980
October 30, 1989, includes newspaper clipping
March 7, 1991
August 23, 1998, includes newspaper clippings
Undated material:
unknown originator-vitae of James Kelman
3 letters from James Kelman
newspaper clipping about James Kelman
Hughes' review of James Kelman with note
Various computer disks.
This series contains works generated by Hughes and constitutes the bulk of the collection. It is sub-divided into Short Stories and Poetry by Hughes. Short Stories are further sub-divided into Short Stories and Story Lines. Both are arranged alphabetically and arranged according to the type of document generally in order by handwritten note, typescript draft, typescript, typescript copy, copy, then submission to editor.
Poetry is sub-divided into a Poem List, Poems, "Journey to a Hard Conclusion" edits, "Journey to a Hard Conclusion" printout, Untitled Handwritten Poems, and Submissions to Editors. Poem List consists of numerous drafts of a handwritten list of poems by the author. Additionally, the poems are arranged alphabetically and according to document type mainly consisting of printout drafts. "Journey to a Hard Conclusion" edits contains drafts as collected by the author of poems included in the book of the same title arranged alphabetically and by document type. Of special note is the "Journey to a Hard Conclusion" sub-series. This folder contains a complete printout copy of the book. Untitled Handwritten Poems contains random poems written on various papers. Again, these poems were collected and written by the author and because they contain no title have no fixed arrangement. Finally Submissions to Editors are letters to and from various editors submitting, accepting, or refusing Hughes' work. Arranged chronologically, this folder was only altered from its original submission by arranging in date order. All other material grouped together is as submitted by the author.
"Ashamed"- handwritten draft
"The Conflictor"- handwritten draft and note
"Death Came at Least"- handwritten notes
"Dutiful"- handwritten draft
"Everybody Knows Andy"- handwritten note
"Faithful"- handwritten draft
"The Flight"- handwritten draft with note
"Goose Bumps"- handwritten note
"How Things Happen"- handwritten draft
"Indigenous Fruit"- handwritten draft
"Letter to a Lady Long Since Dead"- handwritten draft
"Man In Love"- handwritten draft
"Once on the Phone"- handwritten notes
"Sunday Morning on the Docks"- typescript draft
"Virtuous"- handwritten draft
untitled handwritten draft
"Alternatives"
"Belies Belief"
"Bent"
"Cold Christmas
"Common Ground"
"For Dorothy"
"For Lydia"
"Gift"
"Goose Bumps"
"How About Those"
"A Mind is a More Complex by Far than Bark"
"The Only Sound"
"Request"
"Requiem"
"Revisions May Not Be Improvements"
Correspondence, research notes and interviews, plot maps, chapter synopses, character outlines, editor's revision suggestions, and two magazines document the career of Texas writer Rick Riordan spanning the years of 1997-2004. The bulk of the collection consists of manuscript materials for five of his novels: Big Red Tequila, Widower's Two-Step, "Gunman's Cantina" (The Last King of Texas), The Devil Went Down to Austin, and Cold Springs. The collection is arranged chronologically into seven series based on dates of publication of each book, with the seventh series consisting of promotional materials. Because of this, the author's method of constructing and writing a novel from first notes to manuscript is demonstrated.
The first series contains two magazines that featured Riordan's short fiction, the first published in 1988 and a more recent piece published in 1998. The second through sixth series are dedicated to each of Riordan's novels. Correspondence, research, and interviews particular to each novel are contained within that specific novel's series. Most of the research notes and interview materials are for the Widower's Two-Step, The Last King of Texas, and The Devil Went Down to Austin. The seventh series contains promotional materials for Riordan.
In addition to showcasing the people and cultures of Texas through his writings, another important aspect of the Riordan Papers housed in the Wittliff Collection is that it shows the depth of research spent writing his novel as well as the processes of writing from start to finish.
A copy of Cactus Alley (1988) which contains the first two short stories Riordan published, "The Sheet Cave" and "Out on 1040." A copy of Family Circle Mary Higgins Clark Mystery (Summer 1998) featuring Riordan's short story "A Small Silver Gun."
Materials relating to Big Red Tequila Series are arranged according to the chronological writing process: correspondence, a research interview, author's notes, an early draft, and an annotated manuscript with revisions. The correspondence is from Haynes and Boone, LLP and contains information on Texas contract law (July 19, 1996). A 1999 Fax from Mike Hames gives directions to Lackland Air Force Base, TX, a map of the base and a list of questions for interview. The research interview conducted with Hames provides insight into explosive ordinance, amputee physical therapy, and how an amputee deals with day-to-day life. There are notes on the indigenous trees and shrubbery of Central Texas in particular. Several note sheets that list character's names. The complete clean early typed draft of Big Red Tequila from 1994 contains quotes from songs by Texas songwriters in each chapter. These songs were not included in the published version of the book. One draft of the manuscript has been marked by Shelley Singer from the San Francisco Bay Area. Singer was his first line editor. There is also a complete, slightly annotated, typed manuscript of Big Red Tequila
In comparison to the other titles, the Widower's Two-Step has less correspondence, interviews, and research, but does include author's notes, a plot map flowchart, an early manuscript, and a spiral bound annotated draft with revision notes, labeled "2nd Draft." There are no dates for any of the materials belonging in this series, however the contents are likely from 1998 and earlier.
"Gunman's Cantina" was an early working title for The Last King of Texas published in 2000. This series includes correspondence from 1998-2000, author's notes, research emails, a plot map flowchart, and chapter outlines. Correspondence includes a fax from Gina Maccoby with notes from the editor of manuscript. Other correspondence are research interviews conducted via email: Russell Johnson explaining ballistics information and descriptions of guns; Eddie Klauer explaining Bexar County Jail operating guidelines, explosive ordinance and ballistics information, and general heroin use and drug operations; Jay Brandon with police department operational information, and Gloria Huntington on starting a "tech" business. There is also a complete, clean, typed manuscript of The Last King of Texas.
Materials documenting The Devil Went Down to Austin is arranged according to chronological writing process: correspondence, a research interview, author's notes, an early draft, and an annotated manuscript with revisions. The correspondence consists of various written communication to and from Kate Miciak, executive editor of Bantam Dell Publishing Group from 2000. These letters reference revisions and suggestions about book. Along with letter are the author's revision notes in response to Miciak's suggestions for the manuscript. There is also an email from Riordan to Gina Maccoby of the Literary Agency concerning a review of the draft. Notes are available concerning character descriptions and involvement in plot, character names sheet, notes on scenes and discoveries and a dated reference sheet of characters dated June 15, 2000. There are also three plot map flow charts, and chapter synopsis. In addition, there is complete clean-typed manuscript that is an early draft of The Devil Went Down to Austin, and a complete, slightly annotated typed manuscript of the same
Like the others titles, materials for this book are arranged according to the chronological writing process. There are also various undated notes and research materials. It contains an undated, clean-typed manuscript and a complete annotated typed manuscript dated 2003. There is a Riordan business card with his book titles on it and a business card from Kate Miciak, Bantam Books.
Contains six copies of Rick Riordan's publicity photos and a foam core placard with caption "Scene of the Crime" and Riordan's autograph from the The Wittliff Collections event of the same name. There is also a newspaper clipping from the San Antonio Express News June 7, 2001 that is an advertisement for The Devil Went Down to Texas.
Journal articles, correspondence, published works, unpublished research and notes and photographs document the career of Edward Muegge "Buck" Schiwetz as an artist, illustrator and architectural sketcher. The collection is arranged into four main series: Biographical Material, Correspondence, Art Projects by E.M. Schiwetz, and Photographs.
The first series, Biographical Material, 1929-1955, contains two published journals, each containing articles about E.M. Schiwetz. They provide biographical data on the artist and his budding, and then successful career. Each article contains several examples of his work.
The second series, Correspondence, 1954-1979, contains letters written to and from Schiwetz. Most of the correspondence pertains to work rather than personal life, although many elude a respect and affection for the artist. Of note are letters concerning Mathews Ranch and the work E.M. Schiwetz did for the book, Interwoven written by Sallie Reynolds Mathews. Most of these letters are from book designer Carl Hertzog, with the dates ranging from 1956 to 1958. Six of these letters are handwritten.
The third series, Art Projects by E.M. Schiwetz, 1928-1961, is arranged according to the five individual projects. The first, and largest, is Schiwetz's material for Interwoven, which contains notes, sketches to be included as illustrations, a small photo of an unidentified gravestone, two 7x10 photos of a two-story house, one program from Susan Mathews Reynolds funeral dated November 10, 1955, two programs from the Mathews Memorial Presbyterian Church dated December 22, 1957, sketches of the church by E.M. Schiwetz that were used for the front header of the programs and other materials relating to the book or to Mathews Ranch.
The second project is layout illustrations that pertain to Reluctant Empire written by George Fuermann. The third project pertains to the book, Spindletop: The True Story of the Oil Discovery that Changed the World written by James A. Clark and Michel T. Halbouty and contains a dust jacket from the book and a painting by E.M. Schiwetz of the scene on the dust jacket. The fourth project is Texas, published by the Commerce and Finance Departments that contains a collection of 52 advertisements. The book is signed by Anderson Layton of Houston, Texas and dated December 1928. The last project is "Texas Sketchbook: A Collection of Historical Stories from the Humble Way," about Texas history with stories by Frank Field and illustrations by E.M. Schiwetz. There are two copies of the sketchbook, one of them being a reprint from the earlier publication with a different cover.
The last series of the collection, Photographs, 1961-1978, contains six black and white photographs by James Vance. Five of the photographs are of what appears to be Texas scenery. One of the photographs is of E. M. Schiwetz working on a sketch or painting of a landscape.
Cash Edwards and Roger Polson created the 2 linear feet collection of papers for Under the Hat Productions during the company's sixteen year existence starting in 1984 and ending in 2000. The majority of the papers contained are from the period of 1996 through 1999. The papers include a wide variety of promotional materials for their artist clients as well as a number of market research materials and press clippings. The archivist altered the original order of the collection by alphabetizing the clients and combining materials that pertained to each artist. The creators maintained individual client files and these were honored in the new arrangement.
The collection is in to two series, Artists Files and Market Research. The first series is arranged alphabetically by artist and contains promotional materials maintained by the staff. Each of the files contain some or all of the documents including press kits, photographs, negatives and slides, press releases, stage plots, resumes and biographies, flyers, posters, calendars, and mailing or emailing lists. There are clippings and reviews plus advertising, including newspaper and magazine reviews, listings, catalogs, ad tear sheets and photo copies. Also included are financial materials, contracts arranged chronologically, itineraries, travel arrangements, and correspondence with notes, postcards, and letters from artists. The second series contains market research materials. Also maintained by the staff, there are documents including magazines and organization newsletters.
There are a few artists that are more prominently represented. These are the most successful of the artists and include Christine Albert, Ray Wylie Hubbard, Terri Hendrix, Hugh Moffatt, Katie Moffatt, and Pat Mears. In the folder for various artists, each is represented by as few as one document and no more than five. As an example, Ray Wylie Hubbard has 2 folders of contracts for the year 1996. The breadth of venues includes everything from in-store appearances to festival dates both national and international.
The individual biographical sketches, press releases for creative output, and the press kits provide insight into careers the represented artists, venues, travel range, and the "neighborhood" of the Austin Music Scene during the dates represented. The records for the majority of the artists are significantly limited, while the most commercially successful artists have substantial records in the collection. The most revealing parts of the collection include the bios and the press releases and the contracts, documentary evidence of financial income.
There are no papers concerning Under the Hat's organization, finances, or history, and most materials concerning bluegrass artists are at the International Bluegrass Music Association Museum in Nashville, TN
The collection provides a simple snapshot into the professional careers of the Texas singer-songwriters of the late twentieth century in the Greater Austin area, who were clients of Under the Hat Productions.
The papers of journalist Grover Lewis span the years 1955 to 2005 and are arranged into seven series: Personal Papers, Correspondence, Published Works, Unpublished Works, Works by Others, Audio Tapes, and Oversized Items. Brief descriptions of each series are below.
The first series, Personal Papers (boxes 1-11), contains academic materials dating from the late 1960 to magazine and newspaper clippings dated shortly before Lewis's death. Also included are scanned photographs of Grover and wife Rae Lewis, correspondence regarding organizational affiliations, book and music catalogs, address books, eyeglasses, mini cassette recorder, various other personal artifacts, and the bulk of Lewis's Rolling Stone material. 
The second series, Correspondence (boxes 12-18), dates from 1958 to 1995 and includes letters and postcards from notable actors, artists, musicians, and writers as well as correspondence with lifelong friends. Notable correspondence is sheathed in a "white envelope" with pertinent information written across the top edge.
Series three, Published Work (boxes 19-48), is the largest series and contains work in various media—academic and literary journals, newsprint, and magazines—dating from 1955 to 1994. This series includes Lewis's earliest published material in Avesta, and his last published article in Los Angeles Times Magazine. Lewis's meticulous writing process is evident throughout this series in the surfeit of small, hand-written and typed notes, as well as his corrected typescripts.
Series four, Unpublished Work (boxes 49-64), contains research, notes, and finished pages for numerous unrealized projects. This series is dominated by Lewis's unfinished novel, Code of the West, and his unfinished memoir Goodbye If You Call That Gone. 
Series five, Works By Others (boxes 65-82), consists of original typescripts or photocopies of short stories, novels, poetry, and screenplays. Also included are several published works, often inscribed to Lewis, and a videotape of Suicide: The Movie, by Ray Cameron and Barry Cryer.
Series six, Audio Tapes (boxes 83-89), contains both original tapes and listening copies of audio-taped recordings of friends, family, and celebrity interviews Lewis conducted for various magazine articles. There are two items on CD format, which were transferred from reel-to-reel format. 
Series seven, Oversized Items (boxes 90-91), is comprised of diverse materials and media, including personal artifacts, photographs, photograph reproductions, a lithograph, and various newspapers. Most of the material in this series is press/publicity photographs and reproductions relating to Lewis's article for New West magazine, "The Shooting of Larry Flynt: An Eyewitness Account by Grover Lewis."
This series is arranged by subject and contains material reflecting important aspects of Lewis's Life. The Rolling Stone material is a sub-series containing mostly office memoranda, but also some humorous general correspondence and related ephemera.
Other notable material is the transcription of Robert Draper's interview with Lewis, which Draper conducted for his book-length expose, Rolling Stone Magazine: The Uncensored History. Lewis's astringent testimony of his working relationship with founder and editor-in-chief of Rolling Stone, Jann Wenner, play a memorable role in Draper's book. The complete transcription of the interview not only details Lewis's relationship with the incomparable Wenner, but also includes other amusing anecdotes concerning the high-profile masthead of the magazine.
Also noteworthy is the personal correspondence exchanged with legendary San Francisco Chronicle columnist Herb Caen.
The personal artifacts here (boxes 10 and 11) include Lewis's mini-cassette recorder, several pairs of eyeglasses, a small notebook with handwritten notes, buttons, pens, matchbooks, and a view-finder.
This series is arranged chronologically and is comprehensive enough to effectively relate the inherent complexities in the life of a prominent working-journalist. The correspondence signals both Lewis's constant loyalty to friends as well as his uncommon writing ability. The series contains many poignant and superbly crafted letters. The tone of this series ranges between expressly personal letters and perfunctory business memos.
This series is rich with notable correspondence including Nelson Algren, William Brammer, Marlon Brando, Tim Cahill, L. M. Kit Carson, Andrei Codrescu, Francis Ford Coppola, S. Deitch, Joan Didion Dunne, John Gregory Dunne, Peter Gent, Allen Ginsberg, Norman Mailer, Michael McClure, Steve Miller, Trina Mitchum, Sam Peckinpah, Anthony Perkins, Robert Redford, Tom Robbins, Bob Schieffer, Edwin "Bud" Shrake, Judee Sill, Delos V. Smith, Mick Stevens, Hunter S. Thompson, and Tom Wolfe.
In addition to famous celebrities and well-known literati, Lewis's correspondence includes numerous lesser-known writers and artists such as Eve Babitz, Gina Berriault, Dotty Le Mieux, Speer Morgan, Joyce Rezendes, Kell Robertson, and Jack Thibeau.
This series is arranged alphabetically by publication and surveys Lewis's entire writing career from his earliest poetry and short fiction publications in Avesta (1955)—the student literary magazine of North Texas State College—to his last published piece, a profile of well-known photographer Birney Imes, published in the Los Angeles Times Magazine (1994). Material from a posthumous collection of Lewis's writing, Splendor in the Short Grass(2005), is also included.
The bulk of the newspaper work contained here (from the Dallas Times Herald, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Houston Chronicle, Houston Post, and St. Petersburg Times)is book reviews of contemporary work of the mid to late 1960's. These pieces are often highly opinionated and reflect Lewis's idiosyncratic literary and philosophical sensibilities.
There are many notable inclusions in this series:
• The Coexistence Review, an underground literary publication published with friends and fellow North Texas State College students Larry McMurtry and George Lewis (no relation).
• L.A. Weekly, dated 1993, with Lewis's cover story feature of the death of his close friend Gus Hasford, author of The Short-Timers—the novel on which Stanley Kubrick's film Full Metal Jacket was based.
• The aforementioned Los Angeles Times Magazine article dated 1994, which includes audio tapes and a complete transcription of Lewis's interview with Birney Imes.
• The Movieline material, which consists of Lewis's book reviews, and also the audio-taped interview and complete transcription of his interview with Hollywood legend, Aldo Ray, for a January 1991 feature story.
• The New West material, which includes extensive correspondence and research, interesting artifacts, and audio-taped interviews for two important articles: "The Shooting of Larry Flynt: an Eyewitness Account by Grover Lewis" (March 27, 1978), and "Buried Alive in Hype: My Years Among the Reality Vultures" (May 22, 1978).
• Lewis's Rolling Stone material, which includes all of Lewis's major articles, and specifically, the September 2, 1971, issue featuring the article, "Splendor In the Short Grass." The related material for this issue of Rolling Stone includes letters and a telegram from Bogdanovich; pay stubs; and several heavily corrected typescripts, including a preliminary film-reportage attempt written seven years before "Splendor," while on the set of Hud near Amarillo.
• Thirty-seven typescript articles published in The Village Voice during 1969. These articles cover topics from the San Francisco area such as the Rolling Stones concert in Altamont, Native American takeover at Alcatraz, and the People's Park protest in Berkeley.
This series is arranged alphabetically according to either title or subject of work. The bulk of this series is comprised of two large, unrealized projects: The Code of the West (a novel)and Goodbye If You Call That Gone (a memoir).
Both of these projects reflect immensely important aspects of Lewis's life. The Code of the West reflects his intense love of the cinema—especially the bygone era of the Western. The material surrounding this project includes many handwritten and typed notes and an audio-taped interview with Diana Carey, a.k.a. "Baby Peggy," the famous child-actor of the early 1920's. Also notable here are handwritten notes concerning Lewis's work-in-progress by Gus Hasford, Lewis's friend and author of the famous Vietnam War novel, The Short-Timers.
Goodbye If You Call That Gone remains unfinished due to Lewis's death from cancer in 1995. This was planned to be an expansive project in which he hoped to chronicle his own past — with both memory and fact — which centered on the tragic double-murder of both his parents in 1943. Included here are many photographs of Lewis's immediate and extended family, and extensive genealogical research. Other notable items are Lewis's book proposal accompanied by finished pages, both of which tell the fascinating story of his personal life and journalism career in his own words.
Box 47 contains strictly unpublished material; boxes 48-62 comprise a sub-series, Unfinished Work, containing material relating to articles that remained unfinished.
This series is arranged alphabetically by author and includes mostly photocopied short stories and screenplays. Two notable items relating to Lewis are a forty-six page biography, Grover Lewis: The Uncommon Insight and Grace of an Ordinary Man, written by longtime friend and poet R.K. Scott; and the screenplay Deep Ellum, by Stan Vosper, Jr., based on Lewis's adolescent days with Larry McMurtry and other North Texas friends. Included with the screenplay are several pages of Lewis's handwritten notes and corrections on the screenplay itself.
This series is arranged alphabetically by subject and includes both original tapes and listening copies of many of Lewis's taped interviews conducted for L.A. Weekly, Movieline, New West, Oui, and olling Stone magazines. Many famous and prominent actors and artists can be heard, among them Diana Carey (a.k.a. "Baby Peggy"), Elisha Cook, Jr., Larry Flynt (with attempted assassination), David Geffen, Howard Hawks (in a film festival Q & A session), Birney Imes, Lash La Rue, Bette Midler, Robert Mitchum, Slim Pickens, Aldo Ray, Andy Warhol, and Hank Williams, Jr.
Terry Allen (2 tapes)
AM San Francisco: Merle Ellis Grover Lewis, Nancy Fleming (1 tape)
Gatemouth Brown, Ida Queen; Count Basie, J. Williams (2 tapes
)Diana Carey (2 tapes)
CBS 1977-78 Fall Campaign Music (1 tape, sealed)
Elisa Cook (4 tapes)
Bruce David (1 tape)
Joe Ely (1 tape)
Larry Flynt (6 tapes)
Lee Garnes (1 tape)
David Geffen, Clive Davis (1 tape)
Stan Dragoti and Charles Moss Press Conference for "Dirty Little Billy" (1 tape)
Howard Hawks Film Festival (3 tapes)
Rita Hayworth, Raoul Walsh, Howard Hawks (3 tapes; tapes of Hayworth and Hawks are broken and therefore no listening copy exists)
Tom Dean Hennessee (1 tape)
Birney Imes (2 tape)
KABC Radio: Michael Jackson/Grover Lewis Interview (1 tape)
Lash La Rue (tapes 1-4)
Lash La Rue (tapes 5-10)
Manhood, etc. (4 tapes)
Midler (7 tapes)
Telephone Call from Etta Lee Miller (1 tape)
Robert Mitchum, Peter Boyle, et al. (6 tapes)
Jack Oakie (1 tape)
Ben Pesta (1 tape)
Ben Pesta/Paul Krassner (1 tape)
Slim Pickens (3 tapes)
Aldo Ray (8 tapes)
Martin Scorsese; Irwin Winkler, et al.; Thea Van Runkle (3 tapes)
Billy Joe Shaver (1 tape)
"Stag Party" (1 tape)
Unidentified (3 tapes)
Warhol, Paul Morrissey, Sylvia Miles (2 tapes)
Jimmy Webb (1 tape)
Glynn Wolfe (4 tapes)
Hank Williams, Jr. (2 tapes)
Although comprised of various materials and media, photographs and photograph reproductions constitute the bulk of this series. Most of the material here is press/publicity photographs and reproductions relating to Lewis's article for New West magazine, "The Shooting of Larry Flynt: An Eyewitness Account by Grover Lewis." The newspapers (box 91) are Fort Worth Star-Telegram and Fort Worth Press coverage of the Kennedy Assassination
Oversized photograph of Lawrence Dietz, Grover Lewis, and William Murray in Pacific Palisades Park, Santa Monica, California, taken by Penny Wolin-Semple and signed "Penny"
Three oversized prints of the Rolling Stone staff, early 1970's by Annie Liebowitz
Photographic material relating to Larry Flynt: 12 press/publicity photographs and 11 oversized reproductions
Photograph of Frank and Carole Lalli published in New West magazine
Mounted photograph, "1972 Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo," signed by Geoff Winningham, dated 3/72
Large contact photograph of an unidentified man
Lithograph of lounging lizards by Ralph Steadman
Newspaper inscribed by James Hayward, "get well Grover," dated 1995
Mounted poem, "The Donor," by Judee Sill, dated June 6, 1972
Louisiana State UP shopping bag featuring Confederacy of Dunces
Statue of Liberty cardboard cut-out measuring approx. 18" x 6"
Fruit crate label, "Athlete," by Brogdex fruit, Sunkis
The letters in this collection date from 1874 to 1931. The bulk of the letters cover Hardin's arrest and imprisonment. Several of the letters describe in detail Hardin's version of the Webb killing and lynching of Hardin's relatives as well as his own arrest, trial and incarceration. There is good documentation of the 1894 Gonzales County election controversy in which Hardin was deeply involved. The correspondence also offers insights on 19th century Texas life, i.e. politics, reconstruction, the Texas Rangers, the State Police, the Taylor-Sutton feud, prison life, farming practices, and country social life and mores. The collection also contains handwritten legal exams and papers as well as family photographs.
1874 Letters: There is only one letter from this year. On September 18, Hardin, on the run after the Webb killing in May, writes to his father to make a payment to his cousin, Mannen Clements. In a postscript, Hardin tells his father to destroy the letter after it is read.
1875 Letters: There is one item from the year 1875, a bill dated September 25 from Joseph DeMartini of Jacksonville Florida to J. H Swain. In his autobiography, Hardin says he was in Jacksonville using the alias of Swain from July 1875 to July 1876. (Hardin, 110-112)
1876 Letters: There are scraps of bills and invoices from Jacksonville, Florida dating from May until January. Present also is the first letter from Hardin to his wife. It is dated September 8 and he writes he will send for her when he has set up a business.
1877 Letters: The Hardins contacted their families in April to let them know for the first time since they left Texas how they had fared. They are answered by Jane's uncle Joshua Bowen (May 6) and Hardin's uncle Robert E. Hardin (alias R. E. Barnette, May 9. See Marohn 104). Both responses relate the state of affairs in Texas, update the Hardins on their respective relatives and mention the status of the Sutton-Taylor feud factions. After Hardin was captured by John Armstrong and Jack Duncan on August 23, 1877, he writes Jane from Decatur Alabama on August 25 explaining what happened and hinting that he might be able to escape. He accuses her brother Brown of being the cause of his capture. The majority of letters in September and October are letters of support from the family. Hardin is tried in September and convicted of Second Degree murder. He is returned to the Austin jail October 6 to await his appellate hearing. Letters from the family lament his sentence, and encourage him in his appeal. Beginning in November, the Hardin family urges Jane to return to Texas. Other letters of interest are a letter from Doc J An which mentions his knowledge of the detective who arrested Hardin, October 13; from Hardin's mother, Elizabeth, recounting the family version of the Webb killing, October 26; from Hardin giving his wife a detailed account of what happened on the day of the Webb killing and mentioning Brown Bowen who is also in the Austin jail, December 5, 1877; and again from Elizabeth Hardin discussing her family's tragedies and asking Jane what exactly had been Hardin's occupation, December 14, 1877.
1878 Letters: Jane Hardin and her children arrived at Hardin's mother's home in Bennett Station in North Texas in February. Brown Bowen is sentenced to hang for the murder of Tom Haldeman and on March 11, Hardin complains that Brown is blaming him for the murder. He tells Jane that her father has been the cause of the indictment against him for the murder of J. B. Morgan in 1873. On March 26, Hardin writes Jane that Brown got Mannen Clements indicted for the Paten Patterson killing of July 25, 1872. Brown Bowen was hung on May 17 and Hardin, in a May 18 letter to Jane, describes how her sister and father begged him to take the blame for the Haldeman murder, tells why he refused to do so and describes Brown's hanging. On May 19, Mattie Bowen writes her sister Jane how she found Brown's corpse waiting for her and her father when they returned home to Gonzales County from Austin. Hardin learns his conviction has been affirmed in June. Jane Hardin quarrels with her mother-in-law and Hardin writes her in August to mend her relations with his mother. (The reasons for the quarrel are not given.) An August 3 letter from Mannen Clements to Jane also urges her to end the quarrel and advises her not to worry Hardin with her problems. Jane and the children go to Austin in the same month and are able to visit with Hardin in the Austin jail. On September 16, 1878 Hardin is taken under Ranger guard to Comanche for sentencing and he writes Jane describing his travels. On October 5 he enters the Huntsville penitentiary to serve a 25-year sentence as #7109. Jane returns to his mother in Red River County. Hardin's letter writing in prison is restricted and letters are read by prison authorities. By December he has found a guard, J. C. Outlaw, who will slip out letters for him. Hardin writes in his autobiography (127) that he immediately began planning his escape. His letters are circumspect but in a slipped out letter of December 28 he describes an escape attempt. He does not admit blame but says he was punished.
1879 Letters: In his letters to Jane, Hardin often expresses his love for her and the children. On January 9, 1879, he reminisces on their courtship in uncharacteristic detail. Later he apologizes that he exposed their courtship conversation which intimates how very aware he is that his letters are being read by others. In a letter of February 23 which he is slipping out through a guard, he warns Jane to be careful about what she writes, to pretend that she only wants him to be released legally. Letters to Jane of January 26 and February 9 also go into more detail about conditions at prison mentioning escape attempts and punishment. On February 9, Hardin tells Jane about Mannen Clements' legal troubles and that her sister Mattie married Oliver Odom. While Jane is still in Bennett he repeatedly urges her to be considerate of his mother and family. Jane leaves Hardin's mother around April 4 and goes to Austin. By May, she is living with Mannen Clements' family in San Saba County. In a May 11 letter to Mannen Clements, Hardin asks him to give information to Texas Rangers, Lee Hall and J. B. Armstrong, which will help them convict members of the mob who lynched Scrap Taylor. (Hardin relates in his autobiography that Scrap Taylor was lynched by Suttonites after the Webb murder). Mannen Clements is in Austin to take care of an aggravated assault charge mentioned in an earlier letter. In June, Hardin is put in boot shop and writes he has become a good fitter and cutter. On June 19, 1879, Sally Jane Clements, wife of Joseph Hardin Clements, writes Jane about an Indian raid against nearby settlers in West Texas. In August and September, Hardin's mother and family are moving around looking for another place to farm. November 2, Hardin tells Jane to enjoy her stay in Gonzales where her family lives and advises her to "let bygones alone." He is most likely referring to the animosities between Hardin and the Bowens over the Bowen's part in Hardin's arrest and Brown Bowen's hanging.
1880 Letters: There are only five letters and one four-side page of school exercises belonging to Edward Bowen from this year. None of the letters are to or from John Hardin. In May, Elizabeth Hardin writes to Jane in Gonzales that Hardin has had his letter writing privileges taken away after he has been caught planning an escape in clandestine correspondence with Mannen Clements. In August 1880, Hardin attempted escape again and these attempts undoubtedly are the reason he is unable or unwilling to write. (Marohn, 150)
1881 Letters: On June 3, 1881, Hardin writes Jane again after a long hiatus. He explains, in a rather circumspect manner, why he had not written. He is basically saying that since he could not be frank with her (he is possibly referring to his escape attempts and punishment), there was no point in writing at all. He also offers her the opportunity to leave him since they are forced to live apart. He indicates a prison superintendent convinced him to write his mother after she repeatedly wrote asking what had happened to him. He claims that he has decided to make no more attempts to escape and hopes now to gain early release by earning good time or being pardoned. On July 3, 1881, Hardin writes that he worships on the Sabbath, belongs to the Moral and Christian Society and is secretary of the Debating Society. Once again he offers Jane her freedom if she thinks it is in her best interest. In a letter of August 14, he acknowledges that Jane has responded that she wants to remain his wife. He again gives reasons why he did not write her for so long including "to Keep you out of a disgraceful correspondence Something I cannot mention Now." On September 25, Hardin once more offers Jane her release if she wants it. He asks her to write and offers to give her advice on how to educate the children if she wants it.
1882 Letters: In a letter of February 26, Hardin writes that he is glad Jane has chosen to wait for him. In his next letter of April 2, he tells her that he wants to see her but not in stripes. Hardin's mother is writing from Gainesville in May and Hardin's sister, Matt Smith, moves to Lampasas Springs after her husband Bright's house burns down. The children are growing and Hardin's letters increasingly discuss their upbringing beginning with Sep 3. There is one letter from Jane's father Neill Bowen, the only letter of his in the collection. It is written from Pollard, Alabama to Wad who is probably a resident of Gonzales County. Some have thought Wad was Wes but the contents of the letter indicate rather that Neill is writing to someone who has family in Florida and is living in the free world.
1883 Letters: There is only one letter from this year written to Jane Hardin by her sister. Hardin writes in his autobiography that he tried to escape in 1883 without success. In the fall, he became very ill from an abscess to an old gun wound received in 1872. When he is well enough, he is put to work in the tailor shop. (Hardin 131-133)
1884 Letters: Hardin's letters begin to appear on prison forms. He writes Jane two letters in this year indicating he spent most of the year sick from his wound.
1885 Letters: In May, Hardin's mother Elizabeth died at the age of 58 in Ennis, Texas. In August, Hardin asks prison superintendent Ben McCulloch for proper medical treatment saying he has been suffering for two years. In September, Hardin writes Jane that he is feeling better after 2 years of sickness and that sickness prevented him from writing more. His two oldest children begin to write him.
1886 Letters: Hardin begins to write his children directly, giving them advice on the importance of education and the proper way to behave.
1887 Letters: Hardin continues to lecture wife and children using more biblical quotes and religious references. He explains to his children that he was unjustly imprisoned.
1888 Letters: Hardin writes flowery letters instructing Jane and the children on how they should behave. In a February 5th letter, he tells Jane his release date has been moved up because of his good conduct. He promises that if released, he will try to purge himself of his "wicked intemperate ways." On June 24, he defends his past as the actions of a brave man fighting all foes. He has never surrendered and he stood up against the mob. On October 7, Hardin tells Jane to tell the children all about him and that they should imitate his virtues and avoid his faults.
1889 Letters: All the letters from this year are addressed to the children but the body of the letter often contains individual messages to each member of his family. Hardin continues to claim he is imprisoned unjustly. In the July 14 letter to his daughter Jane, he relates his version of the Webb killing, his brother's lynching, his arrest and trial. He also expresses sorrow that Jane's father, Neill Bowen has died. In October he asks Jane why she is not writing.
1890 Letters: In an April letter, Hardin attacks successive Governor's administrations from Davis to Ross. He writes that he has endured 13 years of slavery in prison and the 10 years before he was in "tragic battle" with Yankee soldiers and their supporters. In a November letter, Hardin tells Jane to keep her good looks since he expects to be free in three years. He adds that he will continue to battle for his rights, and for the children to cease writing for the present. In every letter, Hardin gives advice on the behavior of the children.
1891 Letters: Many of these letters are addressed to Jane Hardin written by John and various other family members. Following a Southern familial custom, John continues advising Jane on the behavior of the children. In an April letter, John pleads with Jane to teach the children "that it is cowardly to lie to Steal to rob […] to murder or to violate any law civil." Hardin also receives a letter from L.A. Whatley, Superintendent of Penitentiaries, detailing additional prison time Hardin has accrued on account of his "misconduct" and relates to Hardin's that his term will thus expire on January 22, 1894, if Hardin "will be acquiescent & obedient to the rules."
1892 Letters: Letters from the Fly & McNeal law firm are of interest here, such as one letter dated May 18, in which W.S. McNeal writes to Hardin reassuring him that his case "is a good one and will be of great benefit with the governor in obtaining a pardon for you." Also of interest here are the heartfelt letters that Hardin sent to his children. In an August letter to his son and two daughters, Hardin writes that "Your papa" desires to greet his family with "Kisses of love and tender caresses emblematic of his deep and Sinceere [sic] affection for each of you."
1893 Letters: Considering that Hardin was released from prison the following year, many of documents contained here are not surprisingly related to Hardin's case (with various references to the murder of J.B. Morgan); including formal interaction with state legislators and Governor J.S. Hogg.
1894 Letters: Recently released from prison, Hardin is involved in prolific correspondence with various persons including sheriffs, attorneys, and local merchants. Of peculiar interest are several bills Hardin received from J.P. Randle, P. Levyson, and (responding to a request for a law book catalogue) Gilbert Book Company.
1895 Letters: One singular article of interest here is Hardin's business card—as an attorney at law in El Paso. The card is fixed to a note, which reads, "This card and about 80 others were found in Hardin's room after he was killed in 1895." One humorous letter dated July 11, from J.H. Flynth, asks Hardin to "please tell me when you was convicted the first time and what was your sentence […] for the purpose of settling a dispute here in regard to the matter." This was answered in a script that (to this writer) appears to be J.W. Hardin's, but was written "in regard to Mr. Hardin," and is unsigned.
Correspondents and Index
Not all names have been indexed. First names without surnames which cannot be otherwise identified or are merely mentioned in passing are not indexed. A question mark in brackets means the identity or spelling is uncertain. The relationship after the name refers to the subject's relationship to John Wesley Hardin unless otherwise identified.
An, Doc J-cousin[?] may be an Anderson (see Parsons, Capture 34).
Letters From: 1877 Oct 13[?]
Anderson, James (Jim)-cousin, was at the Waldrup ranch when Mrs. Waldrup told of Charles Webb's visit to arrest her son. Helped J.W. Hardin circulate pardon papers. (See Hardin vs. State 359, and Life 89)
Letters From: 1892 Jul 17
Mentioned: 1877 Sep 9, Oct 26; 1879 Mar 2;
Anglemiller, Joe-acquaintance in Austin.
Mentioned: 1879 Apr 13
Anglin, Mrs. Mollie - The Andrew Anglin family made clothes on order and sold them through the Bowen store in the 1870s. (Parsons, Brown 26). They are listed in the 1880 census as living next door to Jane.
Mentioned: 1881 Jul 3, Dec 14 1882 Jan 18
Ann-sister-in-law [?] Jane had an older sister named Ann (Parsons, Bowen 15)
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, Sep 5
Armstrong, Lieut. John B.- one-time Texas Ranger who participated in capture of Hardin.
Mentioned: 1879 May 11
Ashe, J.D. - District Clerk - Harris Co.
Letters  From: 1894 Mar 6, Aug 16, 23, Sept 20
Auguero, Louis – Client of J.W. Hardin
Letters  From: 1894 Oct 7
Auguero, Roman – Client of J.W. Hardin
Letters  From: 1894 Oct 7
Baker, D.(avid) P. - probably an inmate with Hardin in the Travis County jail. J. H. Clements writes him a letter on the back of a letter to Hardin. Mentions other names that are difficult to decipher or identify.
Letter To: 1878, Feb 15
Barbisch, Joe – Austin Printing Co.
Letters To: 1894 Nov 20
Barnett, Mary - cousin to John and Jennie Hardin.
Letter From: 1894 Oct 4.
Barnette, R. E.-see Robert E. Hardin.
Bishop, F. D. - supporter of Hardin's pardon.
Letters  From: 1894 Apr 14
Bell, Tom - Sheriff - Hill Co.
Letters  From: 1894 Mar 27, 30, Apr 14,
Benny- perhaps Edward Bowen's brother and Joshua Bowen's son. Joshua mentions him in a letter to Edward Bowen, .
Mentioned: 1879 Jul 2; 1880 Jul 15
Blackburn, M. – Client of J.W. Hardin
Letters  From: 1894 Oct 6
Blackshear, K.R. - Tax collector.
Letters  From: 1893 Jul 14(2); 1894 Feb 7
Letters To: 1894 Jan 9
Bond, F.[?] M.- addresses herself as Jane Hardin's sister.
Letter From: 1888 May 22
Bowen, Beasley- Jane's half-brother, son of Neill and Purity Bowen.
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
Bowen, Brown (Joshua) -brother-in-law, Jane's brother. Brown Bowen was hung for the murder of Thomas Haldeman in 1872. His father Neill Bowen asked Hardin to take responsibility for the murder but Hardin refused. Brown claimed Hardin was the guilty party even to the gallows. Mentioned: 1877, May 6, Aug 25, Oct 26, Dec 5, 20; 1878 Jan 31, Feb 15, Mar 14, 23, 26, Apr 19, May 18, 30, Jun 1
Bowen, Edna-Jane's half-sister, daughter to Neill and Purity Bowen.
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
Bowen, Edward- Jane's cousin, son of Joshua Bowen.
Letter From: 1880 Jul 13 [Copybook]
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, 1879 Jul 2
Bowen, Elizabeth (Lizzie, Liza?)-sister-in-law, Janes older sister.
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 26; 1878 Aug 19; 1879 Jul 22[?], 1881 Mar 5, May 1; 1882 Oct 4
Bowen, Joshua-Jane's uncle. Lives in Sadlers Mill, Gonzales County and is possibly the Josh in Santa Rosa, Florida.
Letters From: 1880 Jul 15
Letters To: 1877 May 6 1878 Mar 23 [?], 1879 Jul 2
Mentioned: 1881 May 1; 1882 Feb 26
Bowen, Mattie (Mat, Martha, M. E, see also Mattie Odom)-Sister-in-law. Jane's sister. Becomes Mattie Odom December 1878)
Letters From: 1877 Sep 5, Oct 26, Dec 20; 1878 Apr(May) 19, Jun 29, Aug 19
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, May 9; 1878 May 18, 30
Bowen, Neill (Neal)-Father-in-law, Jane's father.
Letter From: 1882 Nov 26
Mentioned: 1877, May 6, Aug 25, Sep 12, Oct 26, Dec 5, 14, 20; 1878 Feb 15, Mar 14, 26, Apr 19, May 18, 2?, Jun 11, Aug 2, 19 1879 Jul 2, 22; 1881 Mar 5, May 1, Aug 14; 1889 Jul 14.
Bowen, Purity Ann Sunday-Neill Bowen's second wife, Jane's stepmother.
Letter From: 1881 May 1
Mentioned: 1878 Aug 2
Bowen, William-brother-in-law, Jane's brother.
Letters From: 1877 Oct 26
Mentioned: 1877 Dec 20; 1878 Apr 19
Bratton, B – Friend of J.W. Hardin
Letters  From: 1894 Oct 22
Brazell (Brassell) murders-Dr. Phillip Brassell and his son George were called from their beds on the night of September 19, 1876 and murdered by a group of men identified as members of the Sutton faction in the Sutton-Taylor feud. These murders aroused public outrage. The rangers were called in and eight men were arrested and charged. This is considered the last murder resulting from the long-running Sutton-Taylor feud.
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, May 13
Brockius (Brosius), Doc-was in charge of the cattle that Hardin had gathered for a drive at the time of the Webb killing. Brockius was arrested and about to be lynched with Scrap Taylor and others when a member of the lynch mob helped him escape.
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 26; 1880 Aug 30; 1882 May 25
Buchanan, John - County Clerk - Halletsville.
Letters To: 1894 Aug 22
Burnet, Sally-acquaintance.
Mentioned: 1889 Dec 8
Bush, Dr. - Prison doctor.
Mentioned: 1885 Aug 26
Camel, Mary - see Campbell
Campbell [?], Caroline- Jane's cousin. Mentioned in letter from Mattie Odom.
Mentioned: 1879 Jun 15
Campbell, Charles-acquaintance of the Bowens, probably related.
Mentioned: 1877, May 6
Campbell, Mary-Bowen relation. Writes from Santa Rosa, Florida
Letters From: 1878 Mar 23,
Mentioned: 1879 Jun 15
Campbell, Neal-with Hardin when he was captured on the train in Pensacola.
Mentioned: 1877, Aug 25
Campbell, Sallie-Hardin knew her family in Sumpter and is reacquainted with her when he is in jail in Austin.
Mentioned: 1878 Mar 14
Carnes (Karnes), Sheriff John-Sheriff of Comanche County when Webb killing occurred.
Mentioned: 1877, Sep 9
Choate, Mr. of Karnes County-Mattie Hardin writes that Choate is a friend of Hardin's who wishes to help him in his legal troubles.
Mentioned: 1877 Nov 26
Clements, Gip - cousin, Mannen's brother
Mentioned: 1877, May 6, May 9; 1878 Feb 15, Oct 21; 1879 Mar 23, Jun 19
Clements, Jim- cousin, Mannen's brother. Married Annie Caroline, daughter of George and Amanda Jane Billings Tennille.
Letters To: 1894 Oct 4
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, May 9; 1878 Feb 15[?], Oct 2, 1879 Jun 19; 1892 Jan 25
Clements, Joe [Joseph Hardin, Jo]-cousin, Mannen's brother. Married Sarah Jane, daughter of George and Amanda Jane Billings Tennille. February 1878 is in the Gonzales County jail awaiting trial.
Letters From: 1878 Jan 31, Feb 15
Mentioned: 1877, May 6, May 9, Sep 9, 12, Oct 14; 1878 Oct 21; 1879 Mar 23, Jun 19, Aug 17
Clements, Manning [Emanuel, Mannen]. Cousin. Mother, Martha Balch Hardin, was sister to Hardin's father. The two were very close and helped each other out of various scrapes. Mannen Clements helped Hardin escape from the Gonzales County jail in 1872 when W. E. Jones was sheriff. Clements unsuccessfully tried to help Hardin escape from Huntsville. He was shot and killed in a saloon fight in 1887.
Letters From: 1878 May 2?, Jun 1, Aug 3, 27, Oct 21; 1879 Mar 23
Letters To: 1879 May 11, 25, Jul 6, 27 (note), Aug 10 (note)
Mentioned-1874, Sep 18; 1877, May 6, 9; 1878 Jan 19, Jan 31, Mar 14, Mar 17, 26, Jun 15, Jul 4, 14, Aug 2, Sep 11, 28, Oct 4, 22/27, Dec 3, 8, 23, 28; 1879 Jan 10, 26, Feb 9, 23, Mar 2, Apr 13, 20, May 4, Jun 1, Jun 15, 19, Jul 6, 22, 30; Aug 10, Sep 21; 1880 May 27; 1881 Jun 1; 1884 Dec 7
Clements, Jr., Mannen (Mann)-Mannen Clement's son.
Mentioned: 1878, May 2?, Jun 1, 27; 1879 Mar 23, May 25, Jun 1
Clements, Mollie, Mary A.-Mannen Clement's wife.
Letters From: 1879 Mar 23
Mentioned: 1878, Jan 29, May 2?, Jun 1, 1879, Apr 13, 20, Jun 15[?], 19, Jul 6, 27, 30, Aug 10, Sep 21
Clements, Sallie-Mannen Clement's daughter. Married to Jim Miller.
Mentioned: 1878 May 2?, Jun 1; 1879 Mar 23, May 4, 25, Jun 1, Sep 21
Clements, S. J. [Sarah Jane Tennille, Sallie] Daughter of George Tennille and Amanda Jane Billings, married Mannen's brother Joseph Hardin Clements.
Letters From: 1879 Jun 19
Mentioned: 1879 Aug 17
Cloud, Mr.-Offers hospitality to Jane when she goes to Austin in 1878 to see Hardin in jail
Mentioned: 1878 no date (mid August)
Cobb, Ben - Married to Jane's aunt Margaret, Neill Bowen's sister.
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, Dec 20; 1879 Jun 15, Jul 2; 1882 Feb 26, Nov 26
Cobb, Bent-married to Lizzie Hardin Cobb?
Mentioned: 1879 Sep 21
Cobb, J.B. "Buck"-Jane's cousin.
Letters To: 1892 Sept 11, Nov 6; 1893 May 18
Mentioned: 1882 Sep 3;
Cobb [?] Daisy,-possibly Jane's cousin, Margaret Cobb's daughter
Mentioned: 1879 Jul 2; 1890 Apr 6,
Cobb, Lizzie (Sissie, Elizabeth)-sister.
Letters From: 1877 undated; 1878 Feb 17, Mar 11
Mentioned: 1877 Sep 9, 15, Oct 26, Nov 21, 26, Dec 5; 1878 Jun 15, Aug 30, Nov 17; 1879 Jan 10, 26, Apr 27, Jul 30, Sep 21; 1880 Apr 24; 1882 May 25, Aug 13; 1885 Nov 22; 1886 Aug 3
Cobb, Mary - mentioned in Purity's letter from Florida as a neighbor.
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
Cobb, Margaret-Jane's aunt, Neill Bowen's sister, married to Ben.
Letter From: 1879 Jul 2
Mentioned: 1879 Jun 15, 19; 1881 Apr 26; 1889 Dec 8
Cobb [?], Mollie-Probably Margaret Cobb's daughter Mary.
Mentioned: 1879 Jul 2; 1882 Sep 3; 1889 Dec 8
Cobb, Mr.-brother-in-law, married to sister Lizzie. see Bent Cobb.
Mentioned: 1879 Apr 27, May 4; 1882 May 25?
Cobb, Nannie-married Tony Tenille.
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, Sep 5; 1889 Dec 8
Cobb, Sally (Sarah)-Jane Hardin's cousin. Daughter of Margaret and Ben.
Mentioned: 1889 Dec 8
Colbey [sp?], F. A. - Hosts a ball in 1882
Mentioned: 1882 Mar 20 (invitation)
Coleman, R.R. – Ran for Sheriff of Gonzales Co. 1894
Letters To: 1894 Oct 14
Letters  From: 1894 Oct 20, 21, Nov 2
Cooley, George-broken out of Lampasas County Jail with John Ringo.
Mentioned: 1879 Apr 13
Corwin, Dennis-Sheriff of Travis County when Hardin is jailed there.
Mentioned: 1878 Jan 31, Sep 16, 17, 24, Oct 4; 1879 Apr 13
Cresap, S.H. – Neighbor of J.W. Hardin
Letters  From: 1894 Nov 1
Cunningham, William-testified in Hardin's Comanche County trial that Hardin and his associates had conspired against Charles Webb.
Mentioned: 1877, Oct 26
Denson, James M.-Mannen Clement's brother in law. Married his sister Mary Jane Rebecca Clements.
Letters  From: 1894 Oct 27
Mentioned: 1879 Mar 23
Denson, Mary Jane Rebecca Clements-cousin, Mannen Clement's sister.
Mentioned: 1879 Mar 23
Diedrich, F.
Letters  From: 1894 Oct 29
Dikes, A. C.-cousin living in Eastland, Texas.
Letters From: 1877 Dec 3
Dinkins, B. R.-sold cattle to Hardin (alias Swain) in Jacksonville, Florida.
Letters From: 1876 May 2
Dixon, Jack-mentioned in Doc J An's letter
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 10
Dixson, Ellack (Elec)-uncle, mother's brother living in Navarro County.
Mentioned: 1879 Mar 2, Sep 21
Dixson, Mollie-Aunt, married to Elec Dixson?
Mentioned: 1879 Sep 21
Dixson, Tom - Hardin's mother writes Dixson conspired with Cunningham to help kill Hardin on day Webb was killed.
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 26
Dorst, Jim-friend from Gonzales.
Mentioned: 1878 Jun 27
Doublin, Dell-acquaintance.
Mentioned: 1879 Aug 17
Downing, L. M.-Meat vendor in Jacksonville, Florida who bought from Hardin as J. H. Swain.
Letter To: 1876 Mar 23
Duncan, Jack-Dallas detective who assisted in the discovery of Hardin's whereabouts and his capture in Pensacola.
Mentioned: 1877, Aug 25, Oct 10; 1878 May 2?,
Ed - Purity Bowen writes in a letter from Florida that Ed is in Sunday School.
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
Ed-Hardin's mother Elizabeth writes that she is living with daughter Nannie and Ed (Nannie's Husband?)
Mentioned: 1882 Aug 13
Ellis, Wadkin-see Wad.
Finley, R.W. - Comptroller of Public Accounts, State of Texas.
Letters From: 1894 Apr?
Fleming, J. R.-Judge who presided over Hardin's Comanche County trial.
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 26, Dec 5; 1878 Dec 3
Fleming, Mart-Comanche County citizen.
Mentioned: 1878 Oct 20, Jul 6, 27
Fly & McNeal, atty.- Initiated petition to pardon J.W. Hardin from Cuero case.
Letters From: 1892 Jan 8, 25, May 18,
Letters To: 1893 Nov 5
Frank - Jane Hardin's sister?
Mentioned: 1877, May 6, Sep 5, 1878 Aug 19; 1879 Mar 16, May 13 1881 Mar 1, Apr 26, May 1, Dec 14; 1882 Jan 18, Feb 26, May 28, Oct 4, Nov 26; 1886 May 2, Aug 3; 1888 May 22
Freeman, Pone-acquaintance of Bowens. Was subpoenaed as a witness in Brown Bowen's trial for the murder of Thomas Haldeman.
Mentioned: 1879 May 13
Godfrey, John C.-cousin, offers support and money for Hardin's legal fees. Letter From: 1878 Apr 7
Letter To: 1878 Mar 15(26), Apr 7
Mentioned: 1878 Mar 14, Mar 17, Apr 29, May 2?
Gary, W.J. - wrote a poem for Hardins
Letters To: 1892 Oct 2
Gibbs, Barnett – Lawyer
Letters From: 1894 Feb ?
Gilbert Book Co. - Provided J.W. Hardin with law books.Sept 15, 28
Letters From: 1894
Glover, R.M. - Sheriff and friend of J.W.Hardin
Letters From: 1894 Feb 28, Mar 28, 30, Apr 13, 16, Dec 1
Letters To: 1894 Mar 27, 30, Apr 14
Goree, Major Thomas J.-became superintendent of the Texas prison system in 1877.
Mentioned: 1879 May 4 (note); 1880 Apr 24; 1885 Aug 26
Gray, Mr.-First husband of one of Elizabeth Hardin's Red River County neighbors.
Mentioned: 1879 Apr 27
Grear, Mary Smith-mentioned in letter from Bright Smith's mother
Mentioned: 1882 May 1
Grear, Will-Mentioned in letter from Bright Smith's mother.
Mentioned: 1882 May 1
H, S. E.-Gives Jane $10 to help her get to Austin to visit Hardin in jail.
Letters From: 1878 Aug ?
Haldeman, Tom (Halderman) -Murdered in 1872. Brown Bowen was hanged for his death on May 1878.
Mentioned: 1878 Mar 14
Hall, Capt. Lee-Texas Ranger.
Mentioned: 1879 May 11
Hardin, Aaron-cousin, son of Robert E. Hardin.
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 14, Nov 26; 1878 Mar 15, Jul 6
Hardin, Alie B [Bell, Arabella]-sister-in-law. Married to brother, Jo Hardin who was lynched after the murder of Charles Webb in 1874. By 1880, Bell was married to her second husband, Mr. Pierce.
Letters From: 1877 Sep 9
Mentioned: 1877 Sep 9, 15, undated; 1878 Feb 17, Mar 11; 1879 Jul 30, Sep 21; 1880 Aug 30; 1882 May 25, Aug 13
Hardin, Barnett (W. B., Sr.) -Uncle, Polk County.
Mentioned: 1877, undated[?]; 1878 Feb 17, Mar 30, Apr 7; 1879 Mar 2
Hardin, Dora-niece, daughter of Jo and Bell Hardin.
Mentioned: 1882 May 25, Aug 13
Hardin [?], Elizabeth-Cousin [?], possibly daughter of Robert Hardin.
Mentioned: 1877 May 9
Hardin, Elizabeth Dixon-Mother.
Letters From: 1877 Sep 9, Oct 26, undated, Dec 14; 1878 Jan 15, Feb 15, 26, Mar 30, May 30, Aug 16, 30, Oct 10; 1879 Apr 27, Jul 30, Sep 21; 1880 May 27, Aug 30; 1882 May 25, Aug 13;
Letters To: 1878 Dec 8; 1879 Jan 10
Mentioned: 1877, May 9, Sep 9, 12, 15, undated, Oct 14, Nov 21, 25, 26, Dec 3, Dec 5, 29; 1878 Feb 17, Mar 11, Jun 1, 2, 15, Jun 8, 23, Aug 2, 3, Oct 4, 20, 21, 27, Nov 17; 1879 Jan 10, Feb 23, Mar 3, Mar 23, Apr 13, May 4, 25; 1880 Apr 24; 1881 Jun 1; 1882 Feb 26, Apr 2; 1883 Jan 6; 1884 Dec 7; 1885 May 29 (funeral)
Hardin, Gippie [Barnett Gipson]- youngest brother.
Mentioned: 1877, May 9, Sep 9, Oct 26, Nov 21, undated, Dec 14; 1878 Jan 15, Feb 15, May 30, Jun 15, Jul 4, Jul 9, Aug 16, 30, Oct 10, Nov 17; 1879 Jan 10, 26, Feb 23, Jul 30, Sep 21; 1880 Apr 24, May 27; 1882 May 25. Aug 13; 1885 Nov 22; 1886 Jan 3, Aug 3, Sep 5; 1888 Feb 5,
Hardin, J.[ames] G.[ibson]. - Father, son of Benjamin Hardin and Martha Ann Barnett. He married Elizabeth Cartwright Dixon in 1847. They had eight children, five of whom reached maturity. Hardin was a Methodist circuit rider, a lawyer and a teacher. He died August, 1876.
Letter To: -1874, Sep 18, 1874
Mentioned: 1877, May 9, Sep 9, Oct 26, undated, Dec 3, 14; 1878 Jan 15, Feb 15, Mar 30, Jun 2, Aug 30; 1882 Apr 2
Hardin, Jane Bowen (alias Jane Swain, Jennie) -Wife, married February 1872. Jane died November 6, 1892 while Hardin was still in prison.
Letters To: 1876, (Thomasville, Ga), Sep. 8; 1877 May 6, 9, Jun 6, Aug 25, Sep 12, 16, Oct 14, 26, Dec 5, 14, 29; Nov 25; 1878 Jan 29, Mar 14, 17, 23, 26, Apr 29, May 18, 19, Jun 1, 2, 11, 15, 23, 27, 29, Jul 4, 14, Aug 2, 3, ?, 19, 27, 28, 31, Sep 11, 16, 17, 28, Oct 4, 10, 20, 21, 27, Nov 17, Dec 3, 8, ?, 28 1879 Jan 9, 10, 26, Feb 9, 23, Mar 2, 16, 23, Apr 13, 20, 27, May 4, 11 (note),13, 25, Jun 1, 15, 19, Jul 2, 6, 22, 27, 30, Aug 10, 17, Sep 21 (3), Nov 2; 1880 May 27, Aug 30; 1881 Mar 5, Apr 26, May 1, Jun 1, Jul 3, Aug 14, Sep 25, Dec 14; 1882 Jan 18, Feb 26, Apr 2, May 25, 28, Aug 13, Sep 3, Oct 4; 1883 Feb 16; 1884 Jan 6, Dec 7; 1885 Sep 27, Nov 22; 1886 Jan 3, Aug 3, Sep 5, Nov 7; 1887 Mar 27, Sep 4, Nov 6; 1888 Jan 22, Feb 5, Mar 25, May 22, Jun 24, Oct 7; 1890 Apr 6, Nov 2; 1891 Apr 5, Oct 25;1892 Jan 4
Mentioned: 1877, Sep 9, 15, Oct 29, Nov 21, undated; 1878 Jan 15, Feb 15, Feb 26, Mar 11, Mar 30, May 30, Jun 8, Jul 9, Aug 16, 30; 1880 Apr 24, Jul 15; 1882 Aug 28Nov 26; 1886 Mar 7, May 2, Oct 3; 1887 Apr 3; 1889 May 5, Jul 14, Oct 20, Dec 8;
Hardin, Jeff (Jefferson Davis)-brother.
Mentioned: 1877, May 9, Sep 9, undated, Oct 26-27, Nov 21, 25, undated, Dec 14, 29; 1878 Jan 15, Feb 15, 26, May 30, Jun 8, Jul 4, Aug 16, 30, Oct 10, 20, Dec 28; 1879 Jan 10, Mar 2, 23, Apr 27, Jul 30, Sep 21; 1880 Apr 24, May 27; 1882 May 25, Aug 13; 1885 Nov 22; 1886 Jan 3, Aug 3
Hardin, Jennie (Callie, Jennie Martina, Jane)-daughter born in 1877. Letter of Jun 15, 1878 refers to the change of her name from Callie to Jane Martina.
Letters To: 1886 May 2; 1887 May 1, Aug 28; 1889 Jul 14, Dec 8; 1892 Aug 28; 1893 Jun 30
Mentioned: 1878 Mar 17, May 30, Jun 8, 15, 27, Jul 9, Jul 14, Aug 30, Oct 20, Nov 17, Dec 3, 8; 1879 Jan 10, 26, Feb 23, Apr 20, 27, May 4, Jun 1, Jul 6, 30, Sep 21; 1881 Aug 14, Sep 25; 1882 Feb 26, May 25, Aug 13, Sep 3, Oct 1; 1884 Dec 7; 1885 Nov 22; 1886 Jan 3, Mar 7, Aug 3, Sep 5, Oct 3, Nov 7; 1889 May 5, Oct 20; 1890 Apr 6, Nov 2; 1891 Apr 5,
Hardin, Jodie-nephew, son of brother Joseph Hardin.
Mentioned: 1877 Sep 9, 15; 1880 Aug 30, Aug 13
Hardin [?], John- Cousin[?], possibly son of Robert E. Hardin.
Mentioned: 1877 May 9
Hardin, John Wesley-b. May 26, 1853
Letters From: 1874, Sep 18; 1876, May 12, Sep 8; 1877 Jun 6, Aug 25; 1878 Jan 29, Mar 14, 17, 26, Apr 29, May 18, Jun 2, 11, 15, 23, 27, Jul 4, 14, Aug 2, 28, 31, Sep 11, 16, 17, 28, Oct 4, 20, 27, Nov 17, Dec 3, 8, ?, 28; 1879 Jan 9, 10, 26, Feb 9, 23, Mar 2, 16, Apr 13, 20, May 4, 11, 25, Jun 1, Jul 6, 27, Aug 10, 17, Sep 21, Nov 2; 1881 Jun 1, Jul 3, Aug 14, Sep 25; 1882 Feb 26, Apr 2, Sep 3; 1884 Jan 6, Dec 7; 1885 Aug 26, Sep 27, Nov 22; 1886 Jan 3, Mar 7, May 2, Sep 5, Oct 3, Nov 7; 1887 Mar 27, Apr 3, May 1, Aug 28, Sep 4, Nov 6; 1888 Jan 22, Feb 5, Mar 25, Jun 24, Oct 7; 1889 Feb 1, May 5, Jul 14, Oct 20, Dec 8; 1890 Apr 6, Nov 2; 1891 Apr 5, Oct 25, Sept 11; 1892 Jan 4, Aug 21, 28, 30, Sept 11, Nov 6; 1893 Oct 29, Nov 5; 1894 Jan 1, Aug 22, Oct 4, 14.
Letters To: 1875, Sep 26; 1876, Jan 24, 26, Mar 23, Apr 27, May 1, May 2, 12, 1877 May 9, Sep 9, 15, Undated, Oct 13, 26, 29, undated, Nov 21, undated, Nov 26, Dec 3, 5; 1878 Jan 15, 31, Feb 15 (2), 17, 26, Mar 11, 30, Apr 6, 7, 16, May 2?, 30, Jun 7, 8; 1891 Aug 4; 1892 Jan 8, Jan 25, May 18, Jul 5,Jul 17; 1894 Jan 28, Feb 28, Mar 6, 8, 28, 30, Apr 13, 14,16 28, May 9, 20, 23, Jun 22, Aug 4, 16, 23, Sept 1, 20, 28, Oct 4, 6, 7, 15, 21, 22, 28, 31, Nov 2. Dec 1, 30
Hardin, John Wesley, Jr.-son, B. August 3, 1875.
Letters To: 1886 Mar 7; 1887 Apr 3; 1889 Oct 20; 1892 Aug 28.
Mentioned: 1878 Mar 17, Jun 8, 15, 27, Jul 4, 14, Aug 30, Oct 20, Nov 17, Dec 3; 1879
Jan 10, 26, Feb 23, Apr 27, Jul 6, 30, Aug 17, Sep 21; 1881 Aug 14, Sep 25; 1882 Feb 26, May 25, Aug 13, Oct 1; 1884 Dec 7; 1885 Sep 17, Nov 22; 1886 Jan 3, May 2, Aug 3, Sep 5, Oct 3, Nov 7; 1888 Oct 7; 1889 May 5, Jul 14, Dec 8; 1890 Apr 6, Nov 2
Hardin, Joseph (Jo, Jodie)-brother, b. January 5, 1850. Lynched in retaliation for the killing of Charles Webb by John Wesley Hardin.
Letters From: 1894 Jan 28
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 26, undated, Dec 14; 1878 Jan 15; 1879 Sep 21; 1880 Aug 30; 1882 Apr 2; 1888 Jun 24; 1889 Jul 14,
Hardin, Mattie-sister. See Smith, Mattie Hardin
Hardin, Mattie [Martha] -cousin, daughter of Robert E. Hardin.
Letter from: 1877 May 9, Sep 9, 12, Oct 14, 29, Nov 26;
Mentioned: 1877, Sep 9, 15, Oct 26
Hardin, Mollie (Mary Elizabeth) -daughter, b. February 6, 1873.
Letters To: 1880 Apr 24; 1882 Oct 4; 1886 Oct 3; 1889 May 5; 1891 Sept 11; 1892 Aug 21; 1893 Jun 30.
Mentioned: 1877, May 9, Oct 14, 26, Dec 14; 1878 Mar 17, Jun 8, 15, 27, Jul 9, 14, Aug 30, Oct 4, 20, Nov 17, Dec 3; 1879 Jan 10, 26, Feb 23, Mar 16, Apr 27, May 4, 11, 25, Jun 1, 19, Jul 2, 6, 30, Aug 17, Sep 21; 1880 Aug 30; 1881 Mar 5, Apr 26, Aug 14, Sep 25, Dec 14; 1882 Jan 18, Feb 26, May 25, May 28, Aug 13, Sep 3, Oct 1; 1883 Feb 16; 1884 Dec 7; 1885 Sep 27, Nov 22; 1886 Jan 3, Mar 7, May 7, Aug 3, Sep 5, Nov 7; 1887 Apr 3; 1888 Feb 5, Oct 7; 1889 Jul 14, Oct 20, Dec 8; 1890 Nov 2;
Hardin, Molly E.-cousin.
Letters From: 1878 Jun 7
Hardin, Nannie-sister.
Letters From: 1878 Jun 8, Jul 9, 1879 Sep 21; 1880 Apr 24; 1894 Oct 28
Letters To: 1879 Feb 23
Mentioned: 1877, May 9, Sep 9, Oct 26-27, Nov 21, 25, undated, Dec 14; 1878 Feb 15, 26, May 30, Jun 15, Aug 16, 30, Oct 10, 20, Nov 17; 1879 Jan 10, Apr 27, Jul 30, Sep 21; 1880 Aug 30; 1882 Feb 26, May 25, Aug 13; 1884 Dec 7; 1885 Nov 22; 1886 Jan 3, Aug 3; 1888 Feb 5; 1891 Apr 5,
Hardin, Robert E. (Bob) [also R. E. Barnette, Marohn 104]-Uncle, brother to Hardin's father. Married Nancy Brinson Dixon. Living on a ranch in Brenham, Washington County, Texas. Helped harbor Hardin when he was on the run and with legal fees after he was captured.
Letter From: 1877 May 9,
Mentioned: Sep 9, 12, undated, Oct 26-27, 29, undated, Nov 26, Dec 5; 1878, Jan 15, Feb 15, Mar 17, Apr 6; 1879 Jul 6
Hardin, W. B. (Barnett)-cousin in Woodbury, Hill County.
Letters From: 1878 Mar 15(26), Apr 6
Mentioned: 1877, Sep 9; 1878 Mar 14, Mar 15(26), 17, Apr 7, 19, May 2?; 1879 Jan 9, Jan 10, Jul 30, Sep 21; 1884 Dec 7
Hardin [?], Will-cousin. Robert Hardin's son?
Mentioned: 1877 May 9
Hardy, Shep-friend. Hardin's logging partner. Was with Hardin when he was captured.
Mentioned: 1877, Jun 6;
Harison [Harrison?], James-acquaintance.
Mentioned: 1878 May 2?
Hays, Captain Jack - Texas Ranger.
Mentioned: 1879 Sep 21
Helm, Jack-leader of the Sutton faction. Member of the State Police and Sheriff of DeWitt County. Killed by Hardin and Jim Taylor in Cuero
Mentioned: 1878 Jun 15
Hendricks, Ben (Captain)-Hotel keeper in Austin.
Mentioned: 1878 no date (mid August), Sep 11; 1879 Apr 13
Hickock, Wild Bill (Heycoc)-Marshal of Abilene, Kansas.
Mentioned: 1888 Jun 24
Hodge [?], Nelson-His case for attempted murder is mentioned by J. H. Clements in a letter to Hardin along with another name that cannot be deciphered.
Mentioned: 1878 Feb 15
Homesley, Jim-Comanche County resident.
Mentioned: 1878 Oct 20
Hogg, James A.- Governor of Texas (1891-1895)
Letters To: 1892 Jan ?; 1893 Oct 29; 1894 Jan 1
Howell, E. - Friend of the Hardins
Letters From: 1893 Jun 30
Howell, Frank – Friend of R.R. Coleman
Letters From: 1894 Oct 21
Hudson, R.B. – Sheriff of Dewitt Co.
Letters From: 1894 Nov 1
Jernigan, Lomax - Purity Bowen writes from Florida that Lomax killed relation Steve Jones in a drunken fight in Pollard. Several Jernigans married into the Bowen family (Parsons, Brown 138)
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
Jones, B. H.-Probably cousin Barnett Jones who was with Hardin in the John Gates saloon when Hardin was shot by Phil Sublett in 1872.
Mentioned: 1879, Jul 6
Jones, Caroline-Rents cottage to Hardin as Swain in Jacksonville.
Letters From: 1876 Apr 27
Jones, Lizzie - Purity Bowen mentions death in letter from Florida.
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
Jones, Steve (Steave) - Purity Bowen in letter from Florida mentions Jone's killing in a drunken fight in Pollard, Alabama.
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
Jones, Willis-Purity Bown calls him uncle and mentions death in letter from Florida.
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
Jones, W.E. – Sheriff of Gonzales Co.
Letters From – 1894 Nov 3
Karnes, Sheriff John-see Carnes
Kelso, Frank – Friend of R.R. Coleman
Letters From: 1894 Oct 20
Kendrick, M. E.-Jacksonville Florida buyer of beef from Hardin as J. H. Swain.
Letters From: 1876, Jan 26[?],
Kimbro, Manen-Mannen Clements writes Jane that Kimbro brought him news of her family.
Mentioned: 1879 Mar 23
King, Fannie - friend of Jane Hardin
Krueger, O.P. – Friend of J.W. Hardin
Letters From: 1894 Nov 20
Kotzel, - Druggist
Letters To: 1894 Oct 29
Landrum, J. C.-teacher of Hardin and brother Joseph.
Mentioned: 1878 Jun 27
La Opinion Del Pueblo – Gonzales paper –
Letters From: 1894 Oct 13 – Vol 1 No 2
Lay, John - Friend to J.W. Hardin
Letter From: 1894 May 20, Jun 22.
Levyson, P. - General store owner - Gonzales.
Letters From: 1894 May 23 (bill)
Lewis, Callie – see Jennie Hardin
Letters From: 1894 Dec 30
Lewis, Judge-Judge who heard Mannen Clements trial for the killing of Peyton Patterson in Gonzales County during February of 1878.
Mentioned: 1878 Jan 31
Lipscomb, J A.-Attorney hired by Robert Hardin to defend Hardin
Letters From: 1877 undated
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 29
Loide-Mentioned in letter by mother of Bright Smith, Hardin's brother-in-law.
Mentioned: 1882 May 1
Long, J.D.- friend of J.W. Hardin.
Letters From: 1894 Mar 8
Mann, Jim-friend. Was with Hardin when he was overpowered on the train in Pensacola. Mann was shot and killed as he tried to run off the train.
Mentioned: 1877, Aug 25
Mat-mentioned in 1882 letter from Mattie Odom, living with her in 1883.
Mentioned: 1882 Oct 4; 1883 Feb 16
Mendoza, M. – Wife of Roman Augurero
Letters To: 1894 Oct 7
McCall, J.D. – Comptroller
Letters From: 1894 Jan 9
McCulloch, Capt. Ben-Superintendent at the Texas Prison System.
Letters To: 1885 Aug 26
Mentioned: 1888 Jan 22
McGee, Duncan-friend or relative of the Bowens.
Mentioned: 1877, Dec 20
McKenzie, J. W. T.-friend of Hardin family.
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 26.
McKinney, A.T. – Prison warden(?)
Letters To: 1893 Jul 14
McMillan, Marion (A. M.)-Jane's cousin, a probate judge in Pollard, Alabama
Letters From: 1877 Sep 16
Letter To: 1877, Aug 25
Mentioned: 1877, May 6
McMillan, Mary-probably wife of Malcolm McMillan and relation to Jane Bowen. Mentioned in Purity's letter from Florida.
Mentioned: 1881 May 1
McMillan, Neill-Jane Bowen's relative. Deputy sheriff of Pollard, Alabama with whom the Hardins stayed under the name of Swain.
Mentioned: 1877, Jun 6, Dec 5, 20
McQueen-friend of Jane Hardin.
Mentioned: 1877, May 9
Moody, Dr. - Doctor in Red River County.
Mentioned: 1879 Apr 27
Morgan, J. B.-Killed by Hardin in Cuero in 1872.
Mentioned: 1878 Jun 11
Newman (Numan), Sunny (Sonny)-friend of Bowens.
Mentioned: 1877 Dec 5, 20
Nixon, H. A. - Gonzales Attorney.
Letter From: 1890 Mar 7
Odom, Frankey (Frank)-Mattie Bowen Odom's son, born May 1880. (Parsons, Bowen 140)
Mentioned: 1881 Mar 5, Apr 26, Dec 14; 1882 Jan 18, May 28; 1883 Feb 16
Odom, Mattie Bowen - (see also Mattie Bowen)-sister-in-law. Married Oliver Odom December 1878.
Letters From: 1879 Mar 16, May 13, Jun 15, Jul 22; 1881 Mar 5, Apr 26, Dec 14; 1882 Jan 18, May 28, Oct 4; 1883 Feb 16
Mentioned: 1879, Mar 23; 1881 Aug 14
Odom, Oliver-married Jane's sister Mattie Bowen. Is on trial in 1881 according to Mattie's letters. Parsons reports he was indicted in 1878 for an 1874 murder. He died June 22, 1881. (Parsons, Bowen 140)
Letter From: 1879 May 13
Mentioned: 1879 Feb 9, Mar 23, Jun 15, Jul 22; 1881 Mar 5, Apr 26
Outlaw, J. C.-guard through whom Hardin was able to slip out letters.
Mentioned: 1878 Dec 3, 8, 23, 28
Passmore, Ben-Bowen relation mentioned in letter from Joshua Bowen to Edward B. Bowen.
Mentioned: 1880 Jul 15,
Patterson, Paten (Peyton, Pate)-Mannen Clements was indicted October 17, 1877 for the killing of Patterson on July 25, 1872. Clements was arrested December 19, 1877 and won acquittal in 1878.
Mentioned: 1878 Jan 29, Mar 17, May 30
Phillips, Bill (William) - husband of Nancy Bowen, Jane Hardin's sister.
Mentioned: 1878 May 2?, Jun 29, Jul 14, Oct 21, 22/27; 1879 Feb 9, Mar 7, May 13[?]
Phillips, Nancy Bowen -sister-in-law, married to William Phillips.
Mentioned: 1877 Sep 5, Oct 26, 1878 Jul 14, May 13; 1881 Apr 26; 1882 Apr 2; 1888 May 22
Powell,[?] Houston-acquaintance, prison inmate.
Mentioned: 1879 May 4,
Randle, J.P. - General store owner in Gonzales
Letters To: 1894 - bill - May 9. Aug 4
Rauckedt - cousin to Mattie Odem
Renick, S. H.-attorney in Waco. Defends Hardin in Webb trial and appeal.
Letters From: 1878 Apr 16
Mentioned: 1878 Mar 17, Apr 6, 19
Reynolds, Lieutenant-guarded Hardin on his way to Comanche for sentencing and on his way to Huntsville.
Mentioned: 1878 Oct 4
Ringo, John - incarcerated in Austin jail at the same time as Hardin.
Mentioned: 1879 Apr 13, Jul 6
Reuter, Charles - owner Gonzales Ice Works.
Letters From: 1894 Sept 1 (bill)
S., John-fellow inmate. Debates with Hardin in the Debating Society defending the premise that women should have equal rights.
Mentioned: 1881 Jul 3
S., J. [John] G. [?], friend living in Thomasville, Georgia. Identity unknown.
Letters To: 1876, Sep 8;
Sallie-possibly Jane's niece, Frank's daughter.
Mentioned: 1882 May 28
Schlikeisen, E.F. - Sold J.W. Hardin a horse.
Letters From: 1894 Aug 10 (bill)
Scott, J. B.-may be same as below. Promises to be at Hardin's appeal.
Mentioned: 1878 May 2[?]
Scott, Mr. of Marlin-Mattie Hardin mentions him. Possibly lawyer hired by Mr. Choat of Karnes County to represent Hardin in his appeal.
Mentioned: 1877 Nov 26
Shegog, Dr. J. M. - Uncle, married to Elizabeth Hardin's sister, Nan. Lives in Ennis, Ellis County.
Mentioned: 1878 Apr 7; 1885 May 29; 1886 Aug 3
Shegog, Nan-Aunt, Elizabeth Hardin's sister living in Ennis.
Mentioned: 1877 May 9, Oct 10; 1878, Feb 17, Dec 3, 8; 1879 Sep 21; 1885 May 29; 1886 Aug 3; 1888 Feb 5
Shepard, Seth-lawyer. Robert Hardin tried to hire for Hardin's Comanche County trial
Mentioned: 1877, Sep 9
Shroeder, Molly-Jennie Hardin's teacher.
Mentioned: 1887 Aug 28
Smith, Dick-Mentioned in letter from Bright Smith's mother.
Mentioned: 1882 May 1
Smith, Bright-brother-in-law. Married Hardin's sister, Mattie.
Letters To: 1879 Mar 16
Mentioned: 1877, May 9, Sep 9, 15, Oct 26-27, Nov 21, 25, Dec 5, 29; 1878 Feb 26, May 30, Jun 15, 23, 27, Jul 4, 14, Oct 4, Oct 10, 20; 1879 Mar 2, Apr 27, Jul 30, Sep 21; 1880 Apr 24, May 27; 1882 Feb 26, May 1, May 25, Aug 13; 1886 Jan 3, Aug 3,
Smith, L. J. - friend of Hardin's from Jacksonville, Florida.
Mentioned: 1878 Jun 23
Smith, Lillie-niece, first child of sister Mattie Smith born in 1878
Mentioned: 1878 Mar 11, Jun 15, Oct 10; 1879 Mar 2; 1880 Apr 24; 1886 Aug 3
Smith, M. A.-Probably Bright Smith's mother. Bright is married to Hardin's sister, Mattie.
Letter From: 1882 May 1; 1886 Aug 3
Smith, Mattie Hardin-sister. Married Bright Smith in 1876.
Letters To: 1879 Feb 23 (note), Mar 16;
Letters From: 1877 Sep 15, Nov 21, 25, Dec 29; 1886 Aug 3; 1893 Oct 17
Mentioned: 1877, May 9, Sep 9, 12, Oct 14, 26-27, Nov 21, Dec 5; 1878 Feb 15, 26, Mar 11, Mar 17, Jun 8, 15, 23, Jul 4, 9, 14, Aug 16, 30, 31, Oct 10, 20, Dec 8 1879 Mar 2, Jul 30, Sep 21; 1880 Apr 24; 1882 Feb 2, May 25, Aug 13; 1885 Nov
22; 1886 Jan 3
Smith, J.F - County clerk- Brown Co.
Letters from: 1893 May 29
Smither, Capt. J. G.-prison assistant superintendent.
Letters To: 1889 [?]; 1893 Oct 29, Nov ?; 1894 Feb 7
Mentioned: 1890 Apr 6; 1891 Aug 4
Steadman, Ed-Prison inmate who had helped John Ringo and George Cooley break out of the Lampasas County jail.
Mentioned: 1879 Apr 13
Stephens, J. D. (Stevens)-Prosecuting attorney at Hardin's Comanche County trial.
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 26, undated, Dec 5
Steward, Joe-Acquaintance in Austin.
Mentioned: 1878 Aug 28; 1879 Apr 13
Sunday, Joe-brother to Neill Bowen's second wife, Purity. (Parsons, 46)
Mentioned: 1878, May 2?, Aug 2
Sutton faction-
Mentioned: 1877 May 6; 1878 Jun 15; 1879 Apr 13
Swain, Jane-see Jane Bowen Hardin.
Letters To: 1877 May 6, 9, Jun 6, Aug 25
Swain, Jennie-Acquaintance of the Hardins in Brenham.
Mentioned: 1877 May 9, Sep 12
Swain, J. H.-see John Wesley Hardin. Takes alias after he flees Texas in late 1874. He adopts the last name of the Brenham marshal, Harry Swain, who helped Hardin get out of Texas.
Letter From: 1876- May 12; 1877 (Millview, Florida) Jun 6, Aug 25
Letter To: 1875, Sep 25; 1876, Jan 24, 26, Mar 23, Apr 27, May 1, May 2, 12; 1877 May 9, Jun 6, Aug 25
Talmadge, Rev. T. De Witt-syndicated columnist. Hardin is inspired by his teaching and sends clipping to Jane.
Mentioned: 1888 Mar 25 (with clippings)
Taylor, Billy-son of Pitkin Taylor who was killed by the Sutton faction in 1872. With the help of Hardin, Billy along with his brother attacked Bill Sutton on a steamer in Indianola, Texas on March 11, 1874. Billy Taylor killed Sutton's companion, Gabriel Slaughter. In 1877, Taylor was in an Austin jail for this killing at the same time as Hardin.
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, May 9; 1878 Jan 29, Jun 15, 27
Taylor, James- Son of Pitkin Taylor born 1852 and a leader in the Sutton-Taylor feud. Along with Hardin, killed Jack Helm July 1873. With the help of Hardin, along with brother Billy Taylor, killed Bill Sutton on a steamer in Indianola, March 11, 1874. Taylor himself was killed by a Sutton posse in Clinton, Texas on December 27, 1875.
Mentioned: 1877 May 6, May 9, Oct 29
Taylor, J.M. - Friend of J.W. Hardin.
Letter from: 1894 Apr, 28. Oct 31
Taylor, Scrap-Lynched after Webb killing.
Mentioned: 1879 May 11
Templeton, Bill-prison inmate.
Mentioned: 1879 Apr 13
Tennille, Mrs. [Amanda Jane Billings]
Mentioned: 1877, May 6
Tennille, Tony-married Nannie Cobb.
Mentioned: 1877, May 6, Sept 5
TEXAS, STATE OF
Letters To: 1893 Oct 17 (Cooke Co.); 1894 Aug 10 (Gonzales Co.), Oct 27 (Gonzales Co.), Oct 31 (Gonzales Co.), Nov 1 (Gonzales Co.), Dec 16 (DeWitt Co. – Hardin/Billings marriage certificate)
Tom-Hardin writes Jane to tell Mannen that Tom is all right.
Mentioned: 1878 Oct 4
Turner, Mr.-J. H. Clements thanks for "kindness and indulgence" to Mannen Clements during his Austin incarceration.
Mentioned: 1878 Jan 31
Turner, Sara -Cousin
Mentioned: 1879 July 30
Tyler, Marcus-Oliver Odom reports to Mannen Clements that Tyler has several indictments against him.
Mentioned: 1879 May 13
Unknown
Letter From: 1876 Jan 24
Vancleaves, Mat - Jane's sister Matt and her husband Oliver Odom live with the Vancleaves in 1879.
Vandegriff, Major-Ranger wrote Hardin from Austin that Jane had started for his mother's home in October 1878.
Mentioned: 1878 Oct 10, 21
Wad-Has been identified as Wes but the text of the letter indicates it is more likely written to a person living and working in the free world. The 1880 Gonzales County Census lists a Wadkin Ellis, a 45 year old farmer, living near the Bowens.
Letter To: 1882 Nov 26
Waller, Bill-Ranger that hunted Hardin after the Webb killing.
Mentioned: 1878 Oct 20
Webb, Charles-Deputy Sheriff of Brown County killed by Hardin on April 1874. Hardin received a sentence for 25 years in the penitentiary for the killing.
Mentioned: 1877 Oct 26, 29, Nov 21, undated, Dec 5; 1888 Jun 24; 1889 Jul 14
West, M.L. – Bondsman in Floresville, TX.
Letters From: 1894 Oct 15
Whattley, D.A. Superintendent of State Penitentiaries, Huntsville.
Letters From: 1891 Aug 4;
White, Mr. - mentioned in letter from Mattie Odom in 1882. He might move out west
Mentioned: 1882 Oct 4
Willard, E. E.-City Clerk in Jacksonville Florida who records Hardin's (alias Swain) payments on a stall in the meat market.
Letters From: 1876, May 1 (2)
Wilson, Frank-Deputy sheriff of Comanche County present at Webb killing.
Mentioned: 1877, Sep 9; 1878 Oct 4, Oct 27
Wingate, J.F. – Prison mate of J.W. Hardin
Letters From: 1894 Oct 21
Wright family - Friends of Jane's. Mattie Odom tells Jane to say hello
Mentioned: 1881 Dec 14; 1882 Jan 18, Feb 26
Sept 8, 1874. J.W. Hardin to J.G. Hardin
Sept 25, 1875. Joseph DeMartini to J.H. Swain
Jan 24, 1876. [Unknown] to J.H. Swain
Jan 2[6], 1876. M.E. Kendrick to J.H. Swain
Mar 23, 1876. L.M. Downing to J.H. Swain
Apr 27, 1876. C. Jones to J.H. Swain
May 1, 1876. E.E. Willard to J.H. Swain
May 1, 1876. E.E. Willard to L.M. Downing
May 2, 1876. B.R. Dinkins to J.H. Swain
May 12, 1876. J.H. Swain to Mr. Benham
May 12, 1876. [Unknown] to J.H. Swain
Sep 8, 1876. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
May 6, 1877. Joshua Bowden to Jane Swain
May 9, 1877. R.E. Barnette to J.H. Swain
Jun 6, 1877. J.H. Swain to Jane Swain
Aug 25, 1877. J.H. Swain to Jane Swain
Sep 5, 1877. Mattie Bowen to Jane Hardin
Sept 8, 18[77]. J.W. Hardin to [Friend] [Photocopy]
Sept 9, 1877. Mattie Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Sept 9, 1877. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Sept 9, 1877. Alie B. Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Sept 9, 1877. Mattie Hardin to J.W. Hardin [Missing]
Sept 12, 1877. Mattie Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 15, 1877. Mattie Smith to J.W. Hardin
Sept 16, 1877. Marion McMillan to Jane Swain[unknown] Lizzie Cobb to J.W. Hardin
Oct 13, 1877. Doc J. An to J.W. Hardin
Oct 14, 1877. Mattie Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 26, 1877. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Oct 26, 1877. William Bowen to Jane Hardin [Missing w/note]
Oct 26, 1877. Mattie Bowen to Jane Hardin
Oct 27, 18[77]. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Oct 29, 1877. Mattie Hardin to J.W. Hardin
[unknown] A.J. Lipscomb to J.W. Hardin
Nov 21, 1877. Mattie Smith to J.W. Hardin
Nov 25, 1877. Mattie Smith to Jane Hardin
[unknown] Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Nov 26, 1877. Mattie Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Dec 3, 1877. A.C. Dikes to J.W. Hardin
Dec 5, 1877. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Dec 14, 1877. Elizabeth Hardin to Jane Hardin
Dec 20, 1877. Mattie Bowen to Jane Hardin
Dec 29, 1877. Mattie Smith to Jane Hardin
[unknown] R.E. Barnette to Jane Hardin
Jan 15, 1878. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Jan 29, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jan 31, 1878. J.H. Clements to J.W. Hardin
Feb 15, 1878. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Feb 15, 1878. J.H. Clements to J.W. Hardin
Feb 17, 1878. Lizzie Cobb to J.W. Hardin
Feb 26, 1878. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Mar 11, 1878. Lizzie Cobb to J.W. Hardin
Mar 14, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Mar 17, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Mar 9, 1878. Mary C. Campbell to Jane Hardin
Mar 15, 1878. John C. Godfrey & W. B. Hardin to J.W. Hardin [Verso] Mar 26, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin & Mother, Sisters & Brothers
Mar 30, 1878. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Apr 6, 1878. W.B. Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Apr 7, 1878. John C. Godfrey to J.W. Hardin
Apr 16, 1878. S.H. Renick to J.W. Hardin
Apr 19, 1878. Mattie Bowen to Jane Hardin
Apr 29, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
May 18, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
May 2[1], 1878. Mannen Clements to J.W. Hardin
May 30, 1878. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Jun 1, 1878. Mannen Clements to Jane Hardin
Jun 2, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jun 7, 1878. Molly E. Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Jun 8, 1878. Nannie Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Jun 11, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jun 15, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jun 23, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jun 27, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jun 29, 1878. Mattie Bowen to Jane Hardin
Jul 4, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jul 9, 1878. Nannie Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Jul 14, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Aug 2, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Aug 3, 1878. Mannen Clements to Jane Hardin
[unknown] S.E.H. to Jane Hardin
Aug 16, 1878. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Aug 19, 1878. Mattie Bowen to Jane Hardin
Aug 27, 1878. Mannen Clements to Jane Hardin
Aug 28, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Aug 30, 1878. Elizabeth Hardin to J.W. & Jane Hardin
Aug 31, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 11, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 16, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 17, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 24, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 4, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 10, 1878. Elizabeth Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 20, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
[Oct 20, 1878]. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 21, 1878. Mannen Clements to Jane Hardin
[Oct 22] 1878. John S. Vandegriff to J.W. Hardin [Verso] Oct 27, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Nov 17, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Dec 3, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Dec 8, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin & Elizabeth Hardin
Dec 23, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Dec 28, 1878. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jan 9, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jan 10, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jan 26, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Feb 9, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Feb 23, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Mar 2, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Mar 16, 1879. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
Mar 16, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Mattie Smith & Jane Hardin
Mar 23, 1879. Mary A. Clements to Jane Hardin
Apr 13, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Apr 20, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Apr 27, 1879. Elizabeth Hardin to Jane Hardin
May 4, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
May 11, 1879. J.W. Hardin to M. Clements & Jane Hardin
May 13, 1879. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
May 13, 1879. Oliver Odom to Jane Hardin
May 25, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin & M. Clements
Jun 1, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jun 15, 1879. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
Jun 19, 1879. S.J. Clements to Jane Hardin
Jul 2, 1879. M.J. Cobb to Jane Hardin
Jul 6, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin & M. Clements
Jul 22, 1879. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
Jul 27, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin & M. Clements
Jul 30, 1879. Elizabeth Hardin to Jane Hardin
Aug 10, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin & M. Clements
Aug 17, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin & [Cousin]
Sept 21, 1879. Elizabeth Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 21, 1879. Nannie Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 21, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin & Mollie and Cousin
Nov 2, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Apr 24, 1880. Nannie Hardin to Mollie Hardin
May 27, 1880. Elizabeth Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jul 13, 1880. Edward Bowen to copy book
July 15, 1880. Joshua Bowen to Edward Bowen
Aug 30, 1880. Elizabeth Hadin to Jane Hardin
March 5, 1881. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
Apr 26, 1881. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
May 1, 1881. Purity Bowen to Jane Hardin
June 3, 1881. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jul 3, 1881. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Aug 14, 1881. J.W Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 25, 1881. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Dec 14, 1881. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
Jan 18, 1882. Mattie to Jane Hardin
Feb 26, 1882. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
[Feb-Mar] 1882. Professor Peace and Scholars to [Unknown]
Apr 2, 1882. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
May [1] 1882. M.A. Smith to [Daughter]
May [28] 1882. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
Aug 13, 1882. Elizabeth Hardin to Jane Hardin
Sept 3, 1882. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 1, 1882. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 1, 1882. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin [Missing]
Oct 4, 1882. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin & Mollie Hardin
Nov 26, 1882. Neill Bowen to Wad
Feb 16, 1883. Mattie Odom to Jane Hardin
Jan 6, 1884. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Dec 7, 1884. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
May 29, 1885. J.M. Shegog, RE: Elizabeth Hardin's funeral
Aug 26, 1885. J.W. Hardin to B. McCulloch
Sept 27, 1885. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Nov 22, 1885. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jan 3, 1886. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Mar 7, 1886. J.W. Hardin to J. Hardin, Jr.
May 2, 1886. J.W. Hardin to Jennie Hardin
Aug 3, 1886. Mattie Smith to Jane Hardin
Sept 5, 1886. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 3, 1886. J.W. Hardin to Mollie Hardin
Nov 7, 1886. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Mar 27, 1887. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Apr 3, 1887. J.W. Hardin to J. Hardin, Jr.
May 1, 1887. J.W. Hardin to Jennie Hardin
Aug 28, 1887. J.W. Hardin to Jennie Hardin
Sept 4, 1887. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Nov 6, 1887. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jan 22, 1888. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Feb 5, 1888. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Mar 25, 1888. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
May 22, 1888. [F.M. Bond] to Jane Hardin
June 24, 1888. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Oct 7, 1888. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Dec 25, 1888. Prison Playbill
Jan 8 [1889]. J.W. Hardin to Molly Hardin
Jan 22 [1889]. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
[unknown] J.W. Hardin to Captain Smithers
Feb 1, 1889. J.W. Hardin to Texas Legislature
Apr 15, 1889. C. Eckhardt & Sons to Jane Hardin
May 5, 1889. J.W. Hardin to Molly Hardin
July 14, 1889. J.W. Hardin to Jennie Hardin
Oct 20, 1889. J.W. Hardin to J. Hardin, Jr.
Dec 8, 1889. J.W. Hardin to Jennie Hardin
Mar 7, 1890. H.A. Nixon to J.E. Hooper
Apr 6, 1890. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Nov 2, 1890. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Apr 5, 1891. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Aug 4, 1891. D.A. Whattley to J.W. Hardin
Oct 25, 1891. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
[Sept] 11, [1891]. [J.W. Hardin] to Mollie Hardin
[unknown] Mattie Odem to [Mr.] Rauckedt
[unknown] Fannie King to Jane Hardin
[unknown] Mollie Anglin to Jane Hardin
[unknown] [Jas] Hardin to J.W. Hardin
Jan 4, 1892. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin
Jan 8, 1892. Fly & McNeal to J.W. Hardin
[unknown] Citizens of Gonzales to Gov. J.S. Hogg
[Jan 25, 1891]. Fly & McNeal to J.W. Hardin
May 18, 1892. Fly & McNeal to J.W. Hardin
Jul 17, 1892. James Anderson to J.W. Hardin
Aug 21, 1892. J.W. Hardin to Molly Hardin
Aug 28, 1892. J.W. Hardin to J. Hardin, Jr.
Aug 30, 1892. J.W. Hardin to [Unknown] [Missing]
Sept 11, 1892. J.W. Hardin to J.B. Cobb
Oct 24, 1892. [Unknown] to W.J. Gary
Nov 6, 1892. J.W. Hardin to J.B. Cobb
Nov 28, 1892. Notice of death for Jane Hardin
May 18, 1893. [Unknown] to J.B. Cobb [Missing]
[unknown, 1893] [J.W. Hardin] to J. Smither
May 29, 1893. J.F. Smith to [Unknown]
Jun 29, 1893. E. Howell to Mollie Hardin & Jennie Hardin
Jul 14, 1893. K.R. Blackshear to J.W. Hardin
Jul 14, 1893. K.R. Blackshear to A.T. McKinney
Oct 17, 1893. Mattie Smith to State of Texas [Attached] Oct 17, 1893. J.W. Hardin to State of Texas
Oct 29, 1893. J.W. Hardin to Governor J.S. Hogg [Attached] Dec 24, 1891. [County Clerk] to State of Texas
Oct 29, 1893. J.W. Hardin to J.G. Smither
Nov 5, 1893. J.W. Hardin to W.S. Fly
[unknown] Nannie Hardin to [Unknown]
[unknown] [J.W. Hardin] to State of Texas[unknown]
[Unknown] to [Unknown]
[unknown, 1894] J.W. Hardin to [Unknown]
[unknown] D.C. Price & Co. to [Unknown]
Jan 1, 1894. J.W. Hardin to Governor J.S. Hogg
Jan 2, 1894. Callie Lewis to J.W. Hardin
Jan 9, 1894. J.D. McCall to K.R. Blackshear
Jan 28, 1894. J.S. Hardin to J.W. Hardin
[Feb, 1894] Barnett Gibbs to J.W. Hardin
Feb 7, 1894. K.R. Blackshear to J.G. Smither
Feb 28, 1894. R.M. Glover to J.W. Hardin
Mar 6, 1894. J.B. Ashe to J.W. Hardin
Mar 8, 1894. J.D. Long to J.W. Hardin
Mar 27, 1894. Tom Bell to R.M. Glover
Mar 28, 1894. R.M. Glover to J.W. Hardin
Mar 30, 1894. Tom Bell to R.M. Glover & R.M. Glover to J.W. Hardin
Apr 13, 1894. R.M. Glover to J.W. Hardin
Apr 14, 1894. F.D. Bishop to J.W. Hardin
Apr 14, 1894. Tom Bell to R.M. Glover
Apr 16, 1894. R.M. Glover to J.W. Hardin
[Apr, 1894] R.W. Finley to J.W. Hardin
Apr 28, 1894. J.M. Taylor to J.W. Hardin
May 9, 1894. J.P. Randle to J.W. Hardin
May 20, 1894. John Lay to J.W. Hardin
May 23, 1894. P. Levyson to J.W. Hardin
Jun 22, 1894. [Thom Lay] to J.W. Hardin
Aug 4, 1894. J.P. Randle to J.W. Hardin
Aug 10, 1894. E.F. Schlikeisen to State of Texas
Aug 10, 1894. E.F. Schlikeisen to State of Texas
Aug 16, 1894. J.B. Ashe to J.W. Hardin
Aug 22, 1894. J.W. Hardin to J. Buchanan
Aug 23, 1894. J.B. Ashe to J.W. Hardin
Sept 11, 1894. Charles Reuter to [Unknown]
Sept 15, 1894. Gilbert Book Co. to D. Cobb
Sept 20, 1894. J.B. Ashe to J.W. Hardin
Sept 28, 1894. Gilbert Book Co. to J.W. Hardin
Oct 3, 1894. John Taylor to J.W. Hardin
Oct 4, 1894. J.W. Hardin to J. Clements
Oct 4, 1894. Mary Barnett to J.W. Hardin
Oct 6, 1894. M. Blackburn to J.W. Hardin
Oct 7, 1894. Louis Auguero to J.W. Hardin
Oct 7, 1894. Roman Auguero to M. Merrdosa
Oct 8, 1894. Louis Auguero to [J.W. Hardin]
Oct 13, 1894. La Opinion Del Pueblo, Vol. 1 No. 2[unknown] [J.W. Hardin] to The People of Gonzalez County
Oct 15, 1894. M.L. West to J.W. Hardin
Oct 17, 1894. R.M. Glover to [Unknown]
Oct 20, 1894. Frank Kelso to R.R. Coleman
Oct 21, 1894. J.F. Wingate to J.W. Hardin
Oct 21, 1894. Frank Howell to R. Coleman
Oct 22, 1894. B. Bratton to J.W. Hardin
Oct 27, 1894. F.B. Houston to J.W. Hardin
Oct 27, 1894. J. Denson to State of Texas
[unknown] [Denson] to [Unknown]
Oct 28, 1894. N. Witt to J.W. Hardin
Oct 29, 1894. F. Diedrich to [Kotzel]
[unknown] [D.C. Price] to [Unknown]
Nov 1, 1894. R.B. Hudson to State of Texas
Nov 1, 1894. S.H. Cresap to State of Texas
Nov 2, 1894. R.R. Coleman to J.W. Hardin
Nov 3, 1894. W.E. Jones to Voters of Gonzales
[unknown] [Unknown] to [Unknown]
Nov 20, 1894. O.P. Krueger to Joe Barbisch
Dec 1, 1894. R.M. Glover to J.W. Hardin
Dec 16, 1894. Marriage certificate for Charles Billings and Mollie Hardin
Dec 30, 1894. Callie Lewis to J.W. Hardin
Jan 11, 1895. P.M. Smith to J.W. Hardin
Jan 14, 1895. A.O. Hamon & Co. to J.W. Hardin
Jan 14, 1895. A.O. Hamon & Co. to J.W. Hardin
Jan 18, 1895. [Unknown] to J.W. Hardin
Jan 23, 1895. Capt. Lewis to J.W. Hardin
Jan 26, 1895. [Unknown] to J.W. Hardin[unknown] J.B. Miller to [J.W. Hardin] [Attached] [unknown] [Martin Hardin] to J.W. Hardin
Feb 5, 1895. Annie Lewis to [Unknown]
Feb 5, 1895. [A.D. Weston] to J.W. Hardin
Feb 10, 1895. [J.D. Hargis] to J.W. Hardin
Feb 12, 1895. J.B. Miller to J.W. Hardin[unknown] Blank check from The Pecos Valley Bank
Feb 22, 1895. W.C. McGown to J.W. Hardin[unknown] Blank office form of U.S. Bateman
Feb 28, 1895. W.H. Smith to J.W. Hardin
Mar 4, 1895. Capt. Lewis to J.W. Hardin
Mar 4, 1895. Bettie Lewis to J.W. Hardin
Mar 6, 1895. Samuel Glover to J.W. Hardin
Mar 6, 1895. J.H. Clements to J.W. Hardin
Mar 23, 1895. Capt. Lewis to J.W. Hardin[unknown] Business card of J.W. Hardin
Apr 6, 1895. Felipe Leijas to [Unknown]
Apr 15, 1895. [Unknown] to J.W. Hardin
May 27, 1895. Injunction Writ [Unknown] to [Unknown]
[unknown] Affidavit for change of venue[unknown] F.B. Simmons to [Unknown]
[Jun 2, 1895] [Unknown] to J.W. Hardin
[Jun 3, 1895] [D.L. Kemp] to J.W. Hardin
Jun 16, 1895. W.D. Allison to J.W. Hardin
[Jun 18, 1895] R.M. Glover to J.W. Hardin
Jul 11, 1895. J.H. Flynh to J.W. Hardin & [Unknown] to J.H. Flynh
Jul 7, 1895. A.G. Weston to J.W. Hardin
Jul 28, 1895. J.D. Hargis to J.W. Hardin[unknown]
[Unknown] to [Unknown]
Envelopes
This series contains hand-written legal exams and papers.
"Questions on contracts and Sales Junior Law Class Jan 25, 1887"
"Different Actions at Common Law, and what recoverable byeach"
"Review Questions [on 4 Blackstone]"
"Examination in Blackstone '84 O.M. Roberts"
"Chief Justices of The Republic of Texas from 1836 to 1845"
"Feb 1884"
"Questions on Contracts & Sales 1885"
"No. 64""Final Examination, June 6th 1886"
"Questions for the Senior Law Class, 30th Jan. 1889."
"Questions for the Junior Law Class"
"Junior Law Class 'Examination by O.M. Roberts' Feb 4 1886"
"Junior Law Class 'O.M. Roberts' not exact questions but boiled down"
"University of Texas Examination of the Junior Law Class, by O.M. Roberts, Professor, January 29, 1887"
"Examination Questions in Blackstone"
"[Provided] by O.M. Roberts Questions for Junior law class"
"Questions for the Senior Law Class, 30th Jan. 1889."
"Manslaughter is the unlawful killing"
"University of Texas. Law Department. February 4th, 1889."
"University of Texas. Law Department. February 5th, 1889."
"Second Semi-Annual Report of Upsilon Chapter of Sigma Nu"
"Sample Pages of Early Laws of Texas"
"Precedents and Rules of Pleading in Civil Actions"
"Sample Pages A treatise on the Civil Jurisdiction"
"Catalogue Gilbert Book Co. Saint Louis"
This series contains Hardin family correspondence and other memorabilia.
"Why Do You Swear?" signed by J.W. Hardin Pages from a small notebook, unsigned and undated
Pages from a small notebook, unsigned and undated
Invitation card for F.H. Cobb
Hotel-Charco advertisement
Iron City National Bank advertisement
Harper Illustrating Syndicate advertisement
The American Monthly Review of Reviews promotion dated December 14, 1897
London Crayon Portrait Co. promotion
Receipt of purchase from Fred Diedrich
"Flirtation poetry" by J.B. Cainey
"Programme"
Loose pages from a pocket Bible
[Oct 20, unknown] [May Hardin] to John Hardin
Marriage license for John W Hardin and Lily Hause
"The Language System of Penmanship"
[Apr 15, unknown] J.B. Cobb to John Hardin
Jan 17, 1902. [Unknown] to John Hardin
Oct 17, 1910. [Unknown] to John Hardin
Nov 2, 1931. W.B. Teagarden to Mrs. Charles Billings
This series contains clippings that relate to Hardin.
Jan 1, [unknown]. "Hardin on Trial"
Jan 1, [unknown]. "Hardin on Trial"[Photocopy]
[unknown] "Pleading For Pardon"[Photocopy]
[Sept 17, 1894] [The Semi-Weekly Drag Net] [Photocopy]
Oct 13, 1894. Waelder Local.
[Oct 11, 1894] [The Gonzales Inquirer] [Photocopy]
Oct 12, 1894. [The Semi-Weekly Drag Net] [Photocopy]
Oct 13, 1894. La Opinion Del Pueblo. [Photocopy]
Oct 13, 1894. [The Gonzales Inquirer] [Photocopy]
Oct 25, 1894. The Semi-Weekly Drag Net. [Photocopy]
Oct 23, 1894. [The Gonzales Inquirer] [Photocopy]
[Nov 1, 1894] [The Semi-Weekly Drag Net] [Photocopy]
[Nov 1, 1894] [The Gonzales Inquirer] [Photocopy]
Nov 2, 1894. The Semi-Weekly Drag Net. [Photocopy]
[Jan 9, 1895] [The Kimble County Citizen] [Photocopy]
[Apr 24, 1895] [El Paso Daily Tribune] [Photocopy]
May 4, 1895. The Evening Tribune. [Photocopy]
June 13, 1895. The Evening Tribune. [Photocopy]
Mar 3, 1930. The San Antonio Light. [Photocopy]
Feb 8, 1937. The San Antonio Light. [Photocopy]
Feb 24, 1938. Kerrville Mountain Sun. [Photocopy]
Jan 8, 1950. "Soft-hearted." The American Weekly. [Photocopy]
This series contains photographs of Hardin's family, many of the subjects are identified.
John Wesley Hardin. c. 1873 [Photo reproduction]
John Wesley Hardin. c. 1873 [Photo reproduction]
John Wesley Hardin. c. 1873 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin. c. 1885 [Tintype]
Jane Bowen Hardin. c. 1885 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin. c. 1885 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin. c. 1885 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin. c. 1885 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin. c. 1885 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin. c. 1885 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin and Molly. c. 1887 [Tintype]
Jane Bowen Hardin and Molly. c. 1887 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin and Molly. c. 1887 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin and Molly. c. 1887 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin and Molly. c. 1887 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin and Molly. c. 1887 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin and Molly. c. 1887 [Photo reproduction]
Jane Bowen Hardin and Molly. c. 1887 [Photo reproduction]
Elizabeth Cobb. undated [Tintype]
Elizabeth Cobb. undated [Photo reproduction]
Bright Smith. undated [Tintype]
Bright Smith. undated [Photo reproduction]
Aunt Matt. undated [Albumen Print]
Joe Hardin. undated [Albumen Print]
Joe Hardin. undated [Photo reproduction]
Grandma Odim. undated [Tintype]
M. Lacey and son, J.W.H. undated [Tintype]
M. Lacey and son, J.W.H. undated [Photo reproduction]
M. Lacey and son, J.W.H. undated [Photo reproduction]
M. Lacey and son, J.W.H. undated [Photo reproduction]
John Wesley Hardin, Jr. undated [Albumen Print]
John Wesley Hardin, Jr. undated [Photo reproduction]
John Wesley Hardin, Jr. undated [Photo reproduction
Molly Hardin Billings. [Albumen Print]
Molly Hardin Billings. [Photo reproduction]
Molly Hardin Billings. [Photo reproduction]
Victory, Otis, Edith, and Blanch Billings. [Albumen Print]
Victory, Otis, Edith, and Blanch Billings. [Photo reproduction]
John Lyons. [Albumen Print]
John Lyons. [Photo reproduction]
John Lyons. [Photo reproduction]
Jennie Hardin Lyons. [Albumen Print]
Jennie Hardin Lyons. [Photo reproduction]
Jennie Hardin Lyons. [Photo reproduction]
Jennie Hardin Lyons. [Photo reproduction]
Jennie Hardin Lyons. [Photo reproduction]
Jennie Hardin Lyons. [Photo reproduction]
Jennie and Allie Lyons. [Albumen Print]
Matt Bowen. [Platinotype]
Matt Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Matt Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Matt Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Matt Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Matt Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Benny Bowen. [Albumen Print]
Benny Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Brown Bowen and Black Tom Caffole. [Tintype]
Brown Bowen and Black Tom Caffole. [Photo reproduction]
Brown Bowen and Black Tom Caffole. [Photo reproduction]
Brown Bowen and Black Tom Caffole. [Photo reproduction]
Brown Bowen and Black Tom Caffole. [Photo reproduction]
Josh Bowen. [Tintype]
Josh Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Josh Bowen. [Tintype]
Josh Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Josh Bowen. [Photo reproduction]
Mr. Witte. undated [Albumen Print]
Mr. Witte. undated [Photo reproduction]
Nan Witte. undated [Albumen Print]
Mr. Witte. undated [Albumen Print]
Mr. Witte. undated [Photo reproduction]
Jim Clements. undated [Tintype]
Jim Clements. undated [Photo reproduction]
Jim Clements. undated [Photo reproduction]
Jim Clements. undated [Photo reproduction]
Manning Clements. undated [Photo reproduction]
Manning Clements. undated [Photo reproduction]
Joe Clements. undated [Tintype]
John Wesley Hardin on slab. 1895 [Photo reproduction]
John Wesley Hardin on slab. 1895 [Photo reproduction]
John Wesley Hardin on slab. 1895 [Photo reproduction]
John Wesley Hardin on slab. 1895 [Photo reproduction]
Information regarding. 1895. [Photo reproduction]
Information regarding. 1895 [Photo reproduction]
John Selman. 1878 [Photo reproduction]
John Selman. 1878 [Photo reproduction]
Captain John Armstrong. undated [Photo reproduction]
Captain John Armstrong. undated [Photo reproduction]
Jan 9, 1879. J.W. Hardin to Jane Hardin [Photo reproduction]
Pierre Adolph Beasley. [Albumen Print]
Pierre Adolph Beasley. [Photo reproduction]
Pierre Adolph Beasley. [Photo reproduction]
Mrs. Helen Bulah M'Rose. [Photo reproduction]
Mrs. Helen Bulah M'Rose. [Photo reproduction]
Mrs. Helen Bulah M'Rose. [Photo reproduction]
Mrs. Helen Bulah M'Rose. [Photo reproduction]
[Rudolph Billings] [Tintype]
[Rudolph Billings] [Photo reproduction]
[Unknown] [Albumen Print]
[Unknown] [Photo reproduction]
[Unknown] [Photo reproduction]
[Unknown] [Albumen Print]
[Unknown] [Photo reproduction]
[Unknown] [Photo reproduction]
[Unknown] [Photo reproduction]
[Unknown] [Photo reproduction]
[Unknown and Unknown] [Albumen Print]
[Unknown] [Tintype]
[Unknown and Unknown] [Tintype]
[Unknown] [Tintype]
[Unknown] [Tintype]
[Unknown] [Tintype]
[Unknown] [Tintype]
[Unknown] [Tintype
This collection contains the reference photocopies of the Hardin correspondence.
The Cormac McCarthy Papers span 1964-2007 and document the literary career of one of America's most celebrated authors. The collection contains Published Works and Unpublished Works. The bulk of the collection is Published Works, housed in boxes 1 through 96. All of McCarthy's published novels and produced plays and screenplays are represented: The Orchard Keeper (boxes 1-7); Outer Dark (boxes 8-15); Child of God (boxes 16-17); The Gardener's Son (box 18); Suttree (boxes 19-34); Blood Meridian (boxes 35-45); All the Pretty Horses (boxes 46-54); The Crossing (boxes 55-65); The Stonemason (boxes 66-68); Cities of the Plain (boxes 69-78); No Country for Old Men (boxes 79-86); The Road (boxes 87-93); and The Sunset Limited (boxes 94-96).
The works are arranged chronologically by publication/production date. The material for each title is arranged into the following subseries: correspondence; research; notes; drafts; fragments; proofs; and production materials. Not every title has material from each subseries. For example, there is no correspondence associated with Outer Dark or Child of God; and The Gardener's Son is the only title with a subseries devoted to research. Other titles such as Blood Meridian have some research materials within the "notes" subseries.
Drafts represent the bulk of material for each title and are arranged chronologically as best determined. All pages of each draft remain in the original order, and pagination lists exist for each, representing McCarthy's unique page-numbering practice -- particularly for early and revised drafts. Nearly every draft arrived at the Collections with a numbered cover sheet that includes descriptive information such as title, draft stage, and page numbers. These sheets remain with the materials, although the listed page number counts are often inaccurate. The true count and pagination can be found in the container list of this finding aid.
Unpublished Works contains drafts for McCarthy's unproduced screenplay, "Whales and Men," (box 97) and a novel with the working title "The Passenger" (box 98). McCarthy began both Cities of the Plain and No Country for Old Men as screenplays, and although his scripts were never produced, the notes and drafts for them are housed in the boxes with the published novels of the same titles.
Correspondence, notes, drafts, and proofs relating to McCarthy's 1965 novel, The Orchard Keeper.
"The carbon I have doesn't necessarily have the same page-numbers as the copies you quote from, hence I am not sure what transpires on page 67…" Discusses punctuation and chapter divisions.
"I was glad to get your letter and to know that the book is acceptable to you…" Wishes him well as he is leaving Random House.
"Thank you for the letter. In regard to the apostrophes I meant all of them that had been omitted from negative contractions…" Inquires about possibility of magazine excerpt of novel; recommends the cartoons of Fernando Krahn, and discloses that his typewriter is a "Royal Portable, Quiet Deluxe model, vintage circa 1958."
"To take most important things first, the note on page 260: the passage does refer to the cat sequence on 246-248…"
"Enclosed are the letter and the sheets you sent. Some of the inconsistencies I was aware of, others were more in the nature of typographical errors, or just plain carelessness…"
"Remember to insert galleys McCarthy sent back at later date with further corrections."
"I am shipping you at this date, two pages of the above title [The Orchard Keeper] consisting of: Copyright page, About the Author…" Both pages are included.
"May I give this set of McCarthy galleys to [ ] to send abroad?"
"Here, at last, all of the papers, ms, galleys, etc. on the above [The Orchard Keeper]…"
1-12; [no #]; 13-22x; 22; 23-30b; 30-56; ¼ leaf; ¾ leaf; 57-58; [no #]; 59-144; 144a; 144b; 144c; 144d; 144e; 145/150; 146/151/; 147/152; 153-155; 149/156; 157-167; 162/168; 163/169; 164/170; 165/171; 166-173; [no #]; 175-182; [no #]; 183-200; 201/205; 206-209; 209; [2 no #]; 211-215; [2 no #]; 216; 218; 216b; 217; 219-227; [3 no #]; 229; 228; 228; 228; 230-231; 233; 233; 232; [3 no #]; 234-243; [1 no #]; 244; 260/264; [3 no #]; 248t; 249-253; 269-274 [double-sided]; 254; 193; 193; [193]; 255-259; 276t-279t
[no #] 1-13; 13a; [no #]; 14-24; 24; 25-27; [no #]; 27; 28-50; 50; 51-53; 56; 57/55- 100/98; 99; 102a; 102/100; 103/102; 103; 105/104 138/137; 139; 140/139-149/148; 149; 151/150- 183/182; 184-1; 184/183-191/190; 192a; 192/191; 193/194-1; 194/193- 210/209; 211+212/210; 211/213-244/242; 245/243; 245a/246; 245b/247; 248? 250/246; 51/247-254/250; 251-253; 258/254-272/268; 266/269/273; 267/270/271; 268/272- 276/279; 277-278; 284? 279/282
[no #]; 1-260; 260a; 260a (photocopy); 261-282
1a; 1-13; 13a; 14-282
Title page; 1-101
Title page; 1-13; 13-29; 29-30; 30-68; 68-85; 85-99; 99-101
Title page; 1-101
Title page; revised title page; 2nd revised title page; 3; 7-247. Additional Pages: 10-11; 100-101; 170-171; 184-185; 188-189; 224-225; 240-241; "About the Author;" 10-12.
Drafts and notes relating to McCarthy's 1968 novel, Outer Dark.
1-16; 23-36; 38-52; [no #]; 43-54; 56-59; [no #]; 61-70; 73; 76-83; 85-88; 94; 99-102; 104-105; 107-134; 136-141; 146; 148-152; [no #]; 155-162; 164-166; 170-173; 177; 179-181; 184
[no #]; 1-2; 2a; 3-256
1-11; 9 "retype;" 12-19; 24-28; 30-33; 30; 34; 35-51; 47; 52-56; [no #]; 57-63; [no #]; 64-88; [no #]; 89; [no #]; 90-92; 96; 96; 96; 96; 100; 101A; 101-117; [no #]; 118-120; 122-136; 135; 203/95; 137-188; 192-200; 190-194; A; 197; 204B; 201-203; 198; 204D; 202; 204; 203; 205-215; 217; 217-1- 217-4; 218-220; [no #]; 221-222; 222B; 223; 224-230; 233; 233A; 234; [no #]; 235-240; [3 no #]; 242-243; (244); 244 (250); 244; (245); 245; 246; (246); 248-249; 241; 251-252
[2 no #]; 2-102; 103 "old"; 103-273
[2 no #]; 2-270 [page 103 is a photocopy]; 271x; 271-273
[2 no #] 2-273
Notes, drafts, and proofs relating to McCarthy's 1973 novel, Child of God.
1-15; 1a; 16-22; 24-84; 84a-84e; 88-89; [3 no #]; 94-99; 92-93; 100-101; 101a-101c; 85-87; 102-104; 105a; 105-113; [13 no #]; 153; [no #]; 105; 9.
Correspondence, research, drafts, and production material relating to McCarthy's screenplay, Gardner's Son. It originally aired on the Visions series on PBS, January 6, 1977.
"A hurried note. I think the dock scene should go after McEvoy passes James Gregg's office on page twenty five…"
"I hope this will be of some use to you but I dont guarantee anything. Concerning specific actors, I think Royal Dano would be a good man to play the doctor…" suggests Keenan Wynne for Patrick McEvoy, also John Savage. Recommends John Cullum for role of James Gregg and James Earl Jones for Whipper.
Sending tape of a 67 year old Graniteville mill hand singing traditional mill songs as well as other research materials [no tape included].
Correspondence, notes, drafts, fragments, and proofs relating to McCarthy's 1979 novel, Suttree.
Recommends a more compact mss before submitting it for copy editing and production. Focuses on a few episodes that he feels need improvement.
"Here tis. I made a note or two in the margins, addressed to you, nothing of earthshaking importance…" Describes changes and the decision to use "greatuncle" on page 453 of the ms.
Has received Suttree ms. and outlines process for making corrections and getting them to McCarthy for review.
Sending queries. Annotated photocopy pages are enclosed
Discusses previous copy edit questions; asks what dictionary McCarthy uses.
Sending queries. Annotated photocopy pages are enclosed.
Discusses capitalization of "God/god."
Sending queries for McCarthy's review.
Discusses copy edit questions.
Has finished first reading; sending queries.
Asking how strongly McCarthy feels about meeting a February publishing date.
Is on the second "go-round." Annotated photocopy pages are enclosed.
Regarding a previous query about capitalization of "Indian."
Sending queries. Annotated photocopy pages are enclosed
Discusses reading the proofs.
Going on vacation; galleys will be in when she returns. Asks if McCarthy could get to a phone and call collect to collate.
Galleys will be in July 10.
Sending the galleys. Asks to have them back by August 9.
Moving offices and phone number is changing.
Galleys received. Sends questions about some of McCarthy's changes.
Asks McCarthy's preference for accent marks, capitalization.
Folder with 113 pages, typescript, holograph, and photocopy. Plus the booklet, "Chess McCartney, 'The Goat Man.' Presidential Handbook," with inserted postcard and pages from a short
fiction anthology printing of Wilbur Daniel Steele's "How Beautiful With Shoes."
 DF-1-DF 6; 1-11; 11a; 11b; 12-73; 73a; 74; 75a; 75-93; 100; 1c-42c; 143-183; 183a; 184-315; 316a; 316a; 316-321; 321a; 322-325; 325a; 326-357; 357a; 358-383; 383a; 384-406; 407&408; 409-425
426-436; 436b-436c; 437-443; 443a; 444-460; 460a; 461-483; 483a; 484-543; 544/545a; 545-637; 637a; 638-665; [no p. #666]; 667-769; 769a; 770-829; 829-830; 830x; 831-857
DF1-DF6; 1-11; 11a; 11b, 12-73; 73a; 74-75; 75a; 76-93; 100; 1-42; 143-183; 183a; 184-215; H-15-H-9; 221-279.
280-316-316a; 316b; 317-321; 321a; 322-325; 325a; 326-357; 357a; 358-383; 383a; 384-406; 408-436; 436a; 436a-436c; 437-443; 443a; 444-460; 460a; 461-483; 483a; 484-543; 544/545a; 545-601
602-636; 637a; 637-665; 667-769; 769a; 770-829; 829-830; 830x; 831-856.
401-736; 737a; 737-742; 743&744; 745-831; 834; 833-878
[title page]; 1-28; 116-129; 131-324; 326-390
401-433; 433a; 434-440; 440a; 441-594; 596-641; 643-661; 661a; 662-676; 678-696; 707-735; 738-742; 743&744; 745-775; 791-826; 828-878
1-4; 6-32; 32a; 33-38; 38/39; 39-41; 44-91; 91a; 92-125; 127-129; 131-155; 155a; 156-167; 167a; 168-176; 177-183; 183a; 184-189; 193-201; 203-279
280-319; 326-330; 330a; 331; 332a; 332-340; 345-364; 364a; 365-367; 367a; 368-390; 401-409; 412-425; 427-428; 431-441; 441a-441d; 442-495; 495a; 496-510; 510a; 511-529; 529a; 530; 530a; 531-580; 582-586; 588-592; 596-600
601-605; 605a; 606-636; 639-641; 644-660; 661a; 661-676; 678-696; 707-726; 728-735; 740-742; 743&744; 745-764; 764a; 765-775; 791-793; 793a; 794-805; 805a; 806-821; 823-825; 828-854; 854a; 855-873; 876-878
[ad card]; [half title]; [title page]; [blank]; [second half title]; 1-4; 6-32-32a; 33-38; 38a; 39-41; 44-91; 91a; 92-125; 127-129; 131; 132-155; 155a; 156-167; 167a; 168-176; 176a; 177-183; 183a; 184-189; 193-201; 204-279
280-319; 326-330; 330a; 331-332; 332a; 333-340; 345-364; 364a; 365-367; 367a; 368-390; 401-409; 412-425; 427-428; 431-441; 441a-441d; 442-495; 495a; 496-510; 510a; 511-529; 529a; 530; 530a; 531-580; 582-586; 588-592; 596-600
 601-605; 605a; 606-636; 639-641; 644-661; 661a; 662-676; 678-696; 707-726; 728-735; 740-742; 743&744; 745-764; 764a; 765-766; 768-775; 791; 793a; 794-805; 805a; 806-821; 823-824; 827-828; 829-842; 844-845; 845-854; 854a; 855-873; 874/876; 877-878
[ad card]; [half title]; [title page]; [copyright page]; acknowledgements]; [second half title]; 1-4; 6-32; 32a; 39-41; 44-91; 91a; 92-125; 127-129; 131; 132-155; 155a; 156-167; 167a; 168-176; 176a; 177-183; 183a; 184-189; 193-201; 203-319; 326-330; 330a; 331-332; 332a; 333-340; 345-364; 364a; 365-367; 367a; 368-390; 401-409; 412-425; 427-428; 431-441; 441a-441d; 442-495; 495a; 496-510; 510a; 511-529; 529a; 530; 530a; 531-580; 582-586; 588-592; 596-605; 605a; 606-636; 639-641; 644-661; 661a; 662-676; 678-696; 707-766; 728-735; 740-742; 744-764; 764a; 765-775; 791-793; 793a; 794-805; 805a; 806-821; 823-826; 828-854; 854a; 855-873; 876-878
Correspondence, notes, drafts, fragments, and proofs relating to McCarthy's 1985 novel, Blood Meridian. In working drafts and notes, McCarthy referred to this as his "Western."
"Here are the corrections. The pages (31ff) with the red marks on the left margin are all the pages in the ms that have Spanish in them…"
Includes 76 leaves of editorial notes and photocopy manuscript pages
Includes 121 pages of "late draft" photocopy manuscript pages.
"Just before A"; A; [no #]; B; C; 452-453; 453; D; A-1; [no #]; A-2 to A-4; A-4aa; A-4a; 463; A-x; 465?; A-4b; A-7; A-7a; A-8 to A-11; 170-185; 185A to 185C; 22a; 186-192; 26; [no #]; 28; 26a; 193-197; 198a; 199; [2 no#]; 207a; [no #]; 34a-34b; 200-203; 226-235; 75a; 237-242; 79; 243-258; [no #]; 259-263; [no #]; 103; 264-268; [no #]; 269-291; [no #]; 292-299; [no #]; 300-301; 143a; 143; 303; 302; 304-309; 150; 310; [no #]; 311-316; [no #]; 317-318; 158; 158a; [no #] 159; 319; 160; 320-332; 173; 333-339; [no #]; 180; 340; 181; 181a; 341-344; 345a; 345-346; 347a; 347; 188; [no #]; 190; 348-376; 213d/214a; 377-381; 228a; [2 no#]; 228; 382-410; 252; 411-415; 258; 416; [no #]; 417a; 417; 262; 418; [no #]; 419; 419a; 420-422; [holograph notebook page, no #]; 423-424; [no #]; 425-432; 277; 433; 119; 121; 434; LA-1; LA-2; 280a; LA-3; [no #]; EW-2; EW-3; 282; EW-4 to EW-8; 444?; 445?; 446-452; [no #]; 453-545; [no #]; 455-464; 464-465; A-5 and A-6; 466-471; [no #].
[map]; [title page]; [acknowledgements]; [quotes]; 1-43; 43a; 44-61; 61a; 62-78; 78a; 79-81; 81a; 82-119; 119a; 120-163; 163a; 164-166; 167a; 168-169; 1 (170); 2-25; 25a; 25b; 26-35; 35a; 36-41; 41-44; 44a; 45-48; 49a; 49-56; 56a; 57-63; 63-72; 72a; 73-92; [no #]; 93-114; 114x; 115-117; 117x; 118; [no #]; 119-127; 127a; 128-141; 141a; 142-143; 143a; 143b; 144-148; (149); 149-151; 151a; 152-168; 168a; 169-176; (177); 177-182; 182a; 183-198; (199); 199-203; (204); 204-226; 226a; 227; (228); 228-256; 256a; 257-269; (270); 270-285; (286); 286-303; 303a; 304-305; 305a; 306-314; [folder half].
1-31; 34-89; 91-100; 103-112
113-115; 118-126; 135-138; 147; [no #]; 139-169; 169a; 170-185; 185a; 185b; 185c; 186-198; 198a; 199-268; 271-273; 275-276; 278-290; [2 no #]; 291-317; [no #]; 322-345; 345a; 346-347; 347a; 348-349.
350-375; 213d/214a; 376-378; [no #]; 380-389; [no #]; 390-417; 417a; 418-419; 419a; 420-435; EW-1 to EW-2; LA1; LA-3; EW-3 to EW-8; 444?; 445?; 446-453; [no #]; 454-464; 464-465; A-5 and A-6; 466-471.
[title page]; [acknowledgments]; [quotations]; 1-124; 124a; 125-169; 169a to 169c; 170-172; 172a; 173-253; 254/255/256; 257-319; 310x to 319x; 320-352; 352a; 353-393; 394/395; 396-412; [no #]; 413a; 413-420; 420a; 421-452.
Correspondence, notes, drafts, fragments, and proofs relating to McCarthy's 1992 novel, All the Pretty Horses.
Sending list of things that have posed problems with the French translation (not included).
Queries from the Japanese translator. Includes McCarthy's answers to twenty-nine questions.
Compliments McCarthy's Spanish and encloses pencil-corrected photocopies of typescript pages.
1-18; 18a; 18b; 19-26; 26a; 27-42; 42a; 42b; 43-44; 44a; 45-49; 49a; 50; 50a; 51-56; 56a; 57-82; 82a; 83; 83a; 84; 84a; 85-113; 113a; 114-139; 139a; 140-143; 143a; 144; 144a; 145-149; 149a; 150-152; 152a; 153-163; 163a; 163b; 164-165; 165b; 166-170; 170a; 171-172; 172a; 173-179; 179a; 180-184; 184a; 185-186; 186a; 187/188; 189; 189a; 190-193; 193a; 194-199; 199a; 200-202; 202a; 203-211; 211a; 212; 212a; 212b; 213; 213a; 214-216; 216a; 217-225; 225a; 225b; 226; 226a; 227; 227a; 228-255; 255a; 256; 256a; 257; 257a; 258-259; 259a; 259b; 260; 260a; 261-262; 262; 263-264; 264a; 265-270; 271a; 271-274; 274a; 275-276; 276a; 277-278; 278-28-; 281/282/283; 284-291; 291a; 292-300; 300a; 301-302; 302a; 303; 303a; 304-327; 327*; 328-331; 331a; 332-348; 348*; 349-381; 381a; 382-383; 383x; 384-397; 397a; 398-410; 410a; 411-438; 438x; 439-441
1-42; 42a; 43-82; 83; 83a; 84; 84a; 85-97; 97-132; 137-143; 143a; 144; 144a; 145-149; 149a; 150-153; 153a; 154-163; 163a; 163-170
170a; 171-254; 225a; 225b; 255-311; 311*; 312-365
Correspondence, notes, drafts, fragments, proofs, and production material relating to McCarthy's 1994 novel, The Crossing.
Forwarding pages with "dicey transition points" in scenes depicting Billy's hunt for the wolf. In folder labeled "The Crossing."
Providing medical commentary on pages depicting Boyd's surgery in Mexico: "From a literary standpoint, there is no doubt that the scene well depicts the adversity Boyd faces in the character of the Mexican physician who intervenes. However, from a purely medical view, it doesn't tie together…." Includes 4 photocopy pages of typescript draft for review.
Commenting on pages depicting Boyd's surgery in Mexico. Provides suggestions for making it more believable.
Note written on an overdue notice from The University of Texas-El Paso's library asking McCarthy to return books Maria King had checked out and loaned to him.
Suggesting a few minor modifications to medical description that "could be eliminated without losing the structural integrity of the scene."
Providing a follow-up on the period appropriateness for some of the medical instruments.
Suggesting a few minor modifications to medical description that "could be eliminated without losing the structural integrity of the scene."
Pages 382-388B of Boyd's surgery scene with note from King on first page and notes and suggestions by him throughout.
 [4 no #]; 1-48; 51-52; 48-55; 58; 56-57; 59-61; 58-70; 74; 71-85; 113; 113; 86-97; 133; 98-100; 136; 136; 101-107; 109; 110; 110a; 111-118; 157; 119-124a; 124-131; 131; 131-144; 144a; 145; 145a; 146-150; 150a; 188-189; 151;190; 152; [no #]; 193; 153; [no #]; 154-157; 198-200a; 202; 158-160; 203; 161-163; 207-208; 164; 208; 208; 182-185; 187; 189-199; 194; 200-201; 197; 202; 198; 203-208; 204; 209; 211; [no #]; 188; 205; 209; 204; 204; [no #]; 205; 186; [no #]; 205; 205; [no #]; 165; 210; 164; 166-168; 168a; 209; 169a; 169-177; 180; 187-190; 181; 181a; 182-183; 186; 191; 191x; 225; 192-206; 206a; 207-210; 241; 211-224; 224a; 224b; 225; 252-253; 226-237; 262; 238-243; 273; 266-276; 244-246; 280; 246a; [2 no#]; 247-249; [no #]; 250-257; [no #]; 258-260; 289; 261-267; [no #]; 269-272; 272a; 272b; 272b; 272c; 273; 272a; 273aa; 273b; 273bb; 275cc; 275cc; 268; 297; 268; 305; 271x; 274; 274; 275(1); 275(2); 275; 306; 275(3); 275(4); [no #]; 319-321; 275(5); 275(6); 275(7); 275(8); 275(9); 275(10); [2 no #]; 275(13); 275(14); 275(15); W-4b; 275(16); 275(17); 275(18); 275(21); 275(22); 275(23); 275(24); 275(25); 275(27); 275(26); 1-13; 13a; 14&15; 16-45; 385; 46-47; 386ish; 389.
1-21; 20; 22-27; 27x; 28-50; 51a-51d; 58; 58; 51f-51h; w::; 51i-51j; 51-68; 82; 69-79; 92; 80-81; 96; 00; 96; 82-83; 97; 84; 98; 85-94; 105; 95-96; 108; 97-100; 113; 101-104; 104a; 105-115x; 115-131; 139; 139a; 132-146; 152; 152a; 147-152; 156; 153-160; 164; 161-164; 169; 165; 170; 170; 166; 168-171; 175; 172-173; 175; 173-180a; 180-195a; 195-208; 179; 217; 216; 209-248; 252-292; 290; 293-294; 293; 295-297; 295; 298-302; 300; 303-335; 348-385; 387; 386-391a; 392-394; 377-378; 378-379; 395-408; 408x; 409-413; 415; 400; 417; 414; 416; 418-444; 446a; 446; 445; 447-465; 491-499; 501-523; 470; 524-533; 480; 534-535; 480; 536-537; 483; 538; 539a-539b; 539-549; 497a; 550-570; 518aa; 518a; 519; 518a; 571-578; [45-51]; 579-596.
1-27; 27x; 28-82; [no #]; 83-104; 104a; 105-115x; 115-169; [no #]; 170-180; 180a; 181-189; 182-195; 195a; 196-311; 311-319; [no #]; 320-329; [2 no #]; 330-375; w*; w**; w***
376-391; [no #]; 391a; 392-408x; 408; 410; 410-437; [no #]; 438-444; 446a; 445-467; 490-538; 539a; 539b; 539-570+; 570-575; 565-579; [45-51]; 580-596.
1-4; 4a; 5-27; 27a; 28-30; 30a; 31-34; 34a; 35-46; 46a; 47-48; 48a; 49-58; 58a; 59-61; 61a; 62-95; 95a; 96-98; 98a; 99-105; 105a; 106-145; 145a; 146; 146a; 147-150; 150a; 151; 151a; 152; 152a; 153-158; 158a; 159-161; 161a; 162; 162a; 163-171; 171a; 172-197; 197a; 198-206; 206a; 207-211 (insert); 211-214; 214a; 215-229; 229a; 230-231; 231a; 231b; 232-265; 265a; 266; 266a; 267-270; 270a; 271-272; 272a; 273-281; 281a; 282-296; 296a; 297-327; 327a; 328-384; 382-383; 383a; 384-386; 386-388; 388a; 388b; 388b; 382a; 383-399x; 399-400; 400a; 400-413; 413a; 414-416; 416a-416c; 417-418; 418a; 419-447; 447a; 448-450; 450a-450i; 451-452; 452a-452c; 453-461; 461a; 462-464; 464a; 465-481; 454; 482-494; 494a; 495-501; 501a; 502-506; 506a; 507-508; 508a; 509-512; 512(insert); 513-515; 515a; 516-536; 536a; 537; 537-543; 543a; 544; 544-546; 546a; 547a; 547-564.
Correspondence, notes, drafts, fragments, and proofs relating to McCarthy's play, The Stonemason. Originally started in the 1970s, it was eventually published by Ecco Press in 1994.
Enclosing copyedited manuscript and sample pages. Requests a list of characters and a list of acts and scenes.
Follow-up to earlier reading of The Stonemason with suggestions for alterations.
Letter serves as an agreement between the McCarter and McCarthy regarding the play, The Stonemason.
Consolidation of her and Janice's notes on the play.
"Here is the new version. I'll go over your letter. Changing the location of the drama is not something that would work for me…"
2 copies of McCarter program, June 20, 1997; one with pencil notes; 9 notebook paper pages with holograph notes; Photocopy pages numbered 2-45; 00 with minor holograph corrections; Manila folder marked "Stone Mason (inc new opening pp).
Cover letter from Emily Mann to McCarthy. TLS. 1 page April 20, 1999; McCarter Lab contact sheet, 2 pages, May 7, 1999; McCarter Theatre Lab schedule overview, 1 page, May 7, 1999; McCarter Theatre Lab rehearsal schedule, 1 page, May 7, 1999.
Drafts and fragments for an unproduced screenplay of Cities of the Plain. McCarthy reworked it as a novel published in 1998.
Correspondence, notes, drafts, fragments, proofs, and production material relating to McCarthy's 1998 novel, Cities of the Plain.
Sending lightly copyedited manuscript for author's review.
Sending first 200 pages along with notations.
1; 1-28; 28a; 29; 32-34; 36-70; 72-75; 75(insert); 76-82; 83a; 107a; 108-117; 117a; 118-119; 119a; 120-126; 128; 122x; insert; [no #]; 136-140; 140; 140; 141-145; 145x; 146; 146a; 147; 147a; 148-198; 198(1)-198(11); 199-221; 254; 254; [no #]; 223; 222; 224-226; 259; 227-236; 232a; 238-249; 249a; 250-255; 255a; 256-266; 300; 267-269; 303; 270-271; 271(1)-271(2); 308a; 271(3); 285-288; [no #]; 289-291; 272-284; 292-310; 312; 312a; Z(1)-Z(18); 1; Z(19)-Z(29); Z(31)-Z(32); Zx3; Z(33); Zx1; Zx2; 12; 66; 85; 102; 113; 208; 255-257; 257-260; 270; 273; 275; 278; 313; 318; 348
1-11; 11a; 12-39; 39a; 40-43; 43a; 44; 44a; 45-58; 58a; 58b; 59-66; 66a; 67-76; 76a; 76bx; 76b; 77-85; 85a; 85a; 86-101; 101x; 102-127; 127a; 128-140; 140a; 140a; 141-166; 166a; 167-200; 201a; 201-233; 233x; 234-259/260; 261-268; 268a; 269-271; 271a; 272-282; 282a; 283-294; 294a; 295-299; 299a; 300-313; 313a; 314-315; 315x; 315a; 315b; 316-331; 331a; 332-339; 339a; 340-347; 347x; 348; 349-355; 355a; 356; 356a; 357-369; 369a; 370-389; 389x; 389y; 390; 390a; 391; 391x; 392-393
Drafts and fragments for an unproduced screenplay of No Country for Old Men. McCarthy reworked it as a novel published in 2005. Ethan and Joel Coen eventually adapted it for the screen in 2007.
1-2; 2a; 3; 3a; 4-5; 5a-5c; 5c1-5c3; 5da; 5db; 5fc; 6-21; 21a; 22-26; 26a; 27-31; 31a; 31b; 32-36; 36a; 37-63; 63a; 64-67; 67a; 68-101; 101a; 102-103; 103a; 104-107; 107a; 108; 108a; 108b; 109-126; 126a; 127-137; 137a; 139-140; 140a; 141-145; 145a-145d; 146-153; 153a; 154-157; 157a; 158-169
1; 1-2; 2; 3; 3a; 4-5; 5a-5c; 5cc; 5c1-5c3; 5da; 5da; 5eb; 5fc; 6-11; 11-14; 18; 20-21; 24; 26; 26a; 29; 31a-31b; 34; 40-46; 49; 60; 63-67; 71; 73-74; 77-80; 84-86; 90-91; 95-100; 100-101; 101a; 102-103; 103a; 104-107; 107a; 108; 108a-108b; 107-126; 127-132; 132; 133; 133-137; 139-140; 140a; 141-145 145a-145d; 146-153; 153a; 154-157; 157a; 158-162; 164-165; 165; 166-169
Correspondence, notes, drafts, fragments, proofs, production materials, and reviews for McCarthy's 2005 novel, No Country for Old Men.
Discusses and provides suggestions for ms pages relating to Chigurh's treatment of his injuries.
[no #]; 1a; 2-12; 13a; 14-20; 20a; 21-43; 43a; 43b; 44-45; 45a; 46-55x; 55-58; 58a; 58b; 59-64; 64a; 64b; 65-77; 77a; 78-81; 83-84; 82; 85a; 86-99; 99a; 100-112; 112a; 113-115; 115a; 116-120; 120a; 121-126; 126a; 127-136; 136a; 137-159; 159a-159l; 166a; 159a-159z; 160-162; 162a; 163-168; 170-178; 178a; 179-196; 199; 197-198; 200-214; 214a; 215-235; 235a; 236-241; 241; 241-243; 243; 243; 243; 243a; 244; [2 no #]; 247-256; 257a; 257-260; 261a; 261; 263; 264-271; 271a; 272-282; 282a; 283-293; 222x; 182a; 284; 62x; 247a; 127x; 282x; [no #]; 167a; 167b; 168; 169; [170]; 254-255; 255x; 256-257; 257a; 257b; 307x; 300; 300a; 228; 96x; 63a.
1-62; 62a; 62b; 64-96; 96x; 97-127; 127x; 128-166; 166a; 167; 167a-167c; 168-182; 182a; 183-221; 222x; 222-247; 247a; 248-255; 255x; 256-257; 257a; 257b; 258-282; 282x; 283-297; 298x-1; 298x-2; 298x-3; 298-300; 300a; 301-307; 307x; 308
Correspondence, notes, drafts, fragments, and proofs for McCarthy's 2006 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, The Road
Sending Peter Andersen's text design for The Road.
Enclosing printout of email from Jane Daniels Lear to Dan Frank with sailor Joe McCann notes, also sending suggested corrections from McCarthy Society member.
Referring to previous notes and corrections.
Sending corrected pages from third and fourth pass proofs.
Enclosing finished copies of The Road. Discusses website URL on book jacket, and sending second pass proofs of Sunset Limited.
1-48; 51-73; 71; 74; [no #]; 75-76; 40; 76; 79-85; 77-78; 86; 78-79; 88-94; 87; 95-154; 156-157; 137-143; 144a; 144b; 145-147; 160; 158; 146; 159; 163; 162; 161; 155; 145b.
1-8; 9x-1; 9x-2; 9; 10; 10x-1; 10-17; 17-24; 24a; 25-26; 27a; 27b; 28-46; 46-61; 61-73; 73a; 74b; 75-84; 84-85; 86-1; 86-2; 86-3; 86-96; 97a; 97b; 98-107; 108a; 108b; 109; 109-113; 115a; 115b; 116-128; 129a; 129b; 130-135; 136a; 136b; 137-144; 145a; 145b; 146; 147a; 147b; 148-154; 154-161; 162a; 162b; 163-182; 183a; 183b; 184-223; 224a; 224b; 225-248; 248.
1-10; 9-24; 24a; 25-27; 31-36; 66x; 37-73; 74a; 75b; 75-135; 136a; 136b; 137-144; 145a; 145b; 146; 147a; 147b; 148-248; 244-267.
"Della, I'll stop in after lunch to see when you might get to this (It's very little) – Cormac"
1-3; 3; 4-22; 22.4; 23-141; 141x; 142-203; 218; 20-231
1-151; 151-152; 152-158; 163-217; 219-248
1-150; 153-162; 159-173; 175-220; 220-247.
p. 150-161, 12 leaves.
 p. 168-177, 10 leaves.
 p. 178-192, 15 leaves.
p. 193-199, 7 leaves.
p. 198x-218, 23 leaves.
 Flarepistol p. 219-225, 7 leaves.
 Flarepistol p. 219-243, 25 leaves.
 Grail, 8 leaves.
LD, 3 leaves.
 Road notes, 7 leaves.
Correspondence, drafts, fragments, proofs, and production material for McCarthy's 2006 novel in dramatic form, Sunset Limited. It was originally performed by Chicago's Steppenwolf Theatre Company.
Faxing Kirkus Review (not included)
Regarding sell sheet from Vintage edition. 2 copies of sell sheet included with holograph corrections by McCarthy.
Regarding Dutch translator's queries for The Road. Queries not included.
Memo; Style Sheet; i; ii; iii; iv; v; vii; viii; ix; x; xi; 1-58; 59/60; 61-62; 63a; 63b; 64-84; 85/86/87; 88-97; 98a; 98b; 99-102; 103x; 103-105.
Drafts and fragments for McCarthy's unproduced screenplay, Whales and Men.
Drafts and fragments for McCarthy's incomplete and unpublished novel titled "The Passenger." RESTRICTED.
 1-9; 1-2; 1; a; [no #]; 2-8; 9a; 9b; 9; 10a; [no #]; 10-16; 16a; 17-41; 40a; 40b; 42-65; 65a; 66; 66a; 60; 66-69; 77; 101; Q-5 through Q-7; 109a-c; 33; aa; kid; 17; 32a; 16; [4 no #]; she; 380; 376; 376a; 377; 282; 279; 278; 277; 276; 275; 274; 273; [square/dot]; [square/dot]x; 266; 265; 258; 257; 256; 248-255; 247; 243&244; 337; 238; 237; 236; 232; 235; 233-234; 231; 230; 226-227; 225b; 225a; 225; 224; 216; 210; 4c; 285; 4b; 4a; 1; 1-1; 193; 258; 179; 175; h; gx; f; 165; 165x; 164; 166; 163; 162; 158; 157; 154; b(c); d(e); a(b); a/c; w-1; w-2; 149; 148; 146; 141; 138; 137; 193; 134; 124; 123; 181; [no #]; 122; 120; 114; the campaign 1; the campaign; 100; 98; 97; 96; 95; 154; 91; 83; 82; 81; 79; 13xx; [no #]; 112; shack 7; 126; [circle/dot].
183; 183a; 184-195; 194x; 196-202; 211; [no #]; 203-206; 110; 216; 111; 111a; 219; kid (2 pages); 207-209; Tori 1b; she 2-3; she; 210-216; 216a; 217-228; 230; 232-236; 239-240; offshore drilling 1-3; 99; 241; 82; 242-249; 253-254; 254a; 255-268; x; 283; 1-c; 289; shex; she 100; Alicia; she 111; 269-279; his father; 280-287; 289-304; 304a; 305-316; [no #]; 317-319; she zap 1-3; 229; 231; [diamond]1; [diamond]2; 35x; 35; [square]2; [no #]; [no #]; 320-357; 174a; 155-156; 156a-d; 156dx; 157-158; 358-363; kid; 300-309; 364-379; 283-288; shack 1-16; 100; shack 17-21; shack 23-24; 27-28; shack 22; 101; shack x1; [no #]; shack 25-26; 128; [no #]; kline; ka-3; x; ka-2; F; Fx; [no #]; 149a; last days; E; she; Ex; 524; [3 notebook pages]; 524-535; 534x; 52x; [no #]; Tori; Jeff [5 leaves]; [no #]; 2N-1; F?; last days; -1.
The Woolmer Collection of Cormac McCarthy spans 1969-2006 and documents the professional and personal friendship between the book collector and McCarthy. The collection is arranged in four series: Correspondence, Writings by McCarthy, Writings about McCarthy, and Woolmer's Bibliography Files.
Series I: Correspondence, 1996-2006 (box 1), contains 120 letters between McCarthy and Woolmer. The letters are arranged chronologically. The majority of the letters discuss McCarthy's writing, but other topics include recommendations of books to read, reviews of McCarthy's work, and the book collecting world. More detailed descriptions of each letter are found in the container list beginning on page 5.
Series II: Writings by McCarthy, 1982-1994 (boxes 1-4), includes photocopies of drafts of Blood Meridian, The Crossing, Cities of the Plain, The Road, The Stonemason, and The Gardener's Son. The works are arranged into following subseries: Novels, Plays, and Screenplays.
Series III: Writings about McCarthy, 1974-2006 (boxes 4-5), comprises reviews and articles about McCarthy from Esquire, The New Yorker, Southern Literary Journal, Texas Monthly, and other publications. The writings are arranged alphabetically by author. Also included are a number off clippings files about McCarthy and a small collection of ephemera such as publishers catalogs, flyers, and press packets.
Series IV: J. Howard Woolmer bibliography files, 1986-2006, (box 5), consists of Woolmer's files and notes on a possible bibliography on McCarthy. Of note are Woolmer's correspondence files regarding collecting McCarthy.
Correspondence contains 120 letters between McCarthy and Woolmer. The letters are arranged chronologically. The majority of the letters discuss McCarthy's writing, but other topics include recommendations of books to read, reviews of McCarthy's work, and the book collecting world.
Praising Outer Dark and asking if McCarthy will inscribe books.
"Thank you for your very kind letter…" Mentions stories in Yale
Review and Sewanee Review. "I don't write short stories…I won't have
another book finished for a couple of years." He will inscribe the books.
Asking about foreign editions, and promising a complimentary
subscription to Works, a magazine that Woolmer had a hand in publishing.
Thanking for inscribed books.
"Thank you for the letter and note…I have an artist friend who wants to do an illustrated edition of my forthcoming book [Child of God] but it remains to be seen whether the publisher will take to the idea." Supplies the names of publishers of foreign editions of his books. Thanks Woolmer for Works: "I was really amazed at the quality of material they're publishing. Most literary quarterlies these days are pretty grim. I particularly liked Lyn Lifshin's poems. And Paul Blackburn's Bertran de Born."
"Thank you for the book of poems…This girl is very good. I particularly liked 'You who rejoice in Symmetry', but of the ones I have had a chance to read there are none bad…"
Inquiring about purchasing manuscripts, corrected galleys, etc. of The Orchard Keeper and Outer Dark.
"Sorry to be so long in answering your letter. The new book [Child of God] is on the fall lists and will be out, I am told, in December. It is not the longer book that I was writing, but a shorter one which intruded itself in the middle of writing the other one." Replies to Woolmer's inquiry about buying manuscripts saying he has all the "stuff" and would consider an offer if Woolmer tendered one.
Asking for an inventory of manuscripts in order to make an offer.
Praising Child of God. Includes duplicates of newspaper clippings enclosed with the letter.
"Thanks for you letter and the comments on the book…" Sends new address in Tucson and agrees to sign books. Hasn't had a chance to go through his manuscripts.
Sending Child of God for signature. Mentions the possibility of McCarthy's papers going to a university library.
Mentioning PBS advertisement in NY Times for The Gardeners Son.
Requests a copy of the script. [Copy of NY Times ad included.]
"Thanks for your letter. Sorry you've been looking for my book without
success…" Is going to have a copy of the typescript of The Gardner's Son made for Woolmer and would like a copy of The Michael Fraenkel - Henry Miller Correspondence, Called Hamlet in return.
Sending the Miller-Fraenkel book; discussing the reviews of The Gardener's Son; and asking about early works in preparation for a possible bibliography [as yet unpublished]. Corresponding New York Times advertisement for the PBS Visions series, and a November / December 1976 issue of Coda: Poets and Writers Newsletter with mention of the series on p. 9.
"Thank you for the book. It is very exotic looking. This was the only one of Millers books I didnt have and I've been looking forward to reading it for years…" Mentions his early publications: "I'm afraid theres not much research to do in the way of bibliography. Think I published a story once in a college rag…When I started writing novels I stopped writing anything else. Never wrote no poetry." Ends with "I'm in Tucson working on my 'western' [Blood Meridian] Long book supposed to be out this year but maybe not."
Thanking him for typescript and asking to have it signed. Suggests Woolmer/Brotherson publish a limited signed edition of "Burial" [previously published in Antaeus].
"Thank you for the note. Letter, I guess…" Mentions he did not know that Antaeus had published an excerpt from Suttree. "I dont like to find my name in little magazines, but the idea of a limited edition sounds interesting. I'm working on a western [Blood Meridian] – based loosely on historical events in Mexico in 1849 – illustrated with about 2 dozen period prints – woodcuts mostly. The book is essentially finished (300 pp) but needs to be completely rewritten…"
Regarding Suttree, which he does not like as much as McCarthy's other works, but feels it is still "miles ahead of anything being written by any other writer." Asks if McCarthy uses a typewriter; discusses possibility of publishing McCarthy's "western."
"Thank you for your letter and here's your book…" Robert Coles sent him proofs of a review to appear in the New Yorker. Mentions another review: "I suppose by now you may have seen the thing in Esquire, I enjoyed the cartoon. Thought it showed a wit and discernment the reviewer [Geoffrey Wolff] could have used. Also the cartoonist managed to get all the words spelled right." Answers Woolmer's question about his writing process: "I normally use a typewriter (you asked) and I think you can see why." Mentions that Random House has publishing rights for "the western" but that maybe Woolmer can publish an excerpt.
Providing details of publishing history.
"Thank you very much for the Levertov. It is very handsome…" mentions Kosinki's book in passing, agrees that Esquire has fallen on hard times, he's seen a number of reviews, some of them nice ones. Mentions that his editor is Albert Erskine and that Woolmer should contact him about publishing the excerpt.
Regarding publishing an excerpt of Blood Meridian.
"What are you doing? Did you ever hear from Albert about the limited signed edition…?"
Regarding cancelled trip to Vanderbilt and response received from Albert Erskine.
"Sorry you didnt get down to Nashville, would have enjoyed seeing you…" Discusses Random House, "Albert is semi-retired and probably considered some sort of relic of bygone years by the functional illiterates now in command…" Also, "a short section of the western is to appear – I am told – in the next issue of Triquarterly. The issue being devoted to the literature of the West. I'm branching out."
Informing him that Robert Penn Warren considers McCarthy a "most talented writer." Recommends the film Wise Blood.
"Thank you for your very nice letter…" Mentions that Robert Penn Warren and he share the same editor at Random House [Erskine]. "Interesting that he [Warren] liked Child of God. Some people think it a most peculiar book, but lately it has been receiving a sort of belated enthusiasm in the form of reviews and theses and such." Mentions that Wise Blood actors Brad Dourif and Ned Beatty were also both in The Gardner's Son.
Sending May 2, 1980 TLS review of Suttree [review included].
"Thanks for the clipping. You were right, I probably would not have seen it…I'm getting ready to head west for the final push on my novel [Blood Meridian]. Hope to get it done by the end of the year." Erskine and Random House are very negative about a limited edition. "I don't have an agent anymore and am in a sort of limbo…" All of his books except for the most recent are out of print; inquires if Woolmer knows of a paperback house that might be interested.
Received Triquarterly. "The Scalphunters" is powerful, but confused about characters. Comments on the stuffing genitals into victim's mouths. Mentions reading John Yount.
"Thanks for your letter, it is always nice to hear from you…The characters in the story [Blood Meridian] are a bunch of American adventurers in Chihuahua in 1849 who have contracted to supply scalps to the government…" Mentions John Yount's The Trapper's Last Shot. Also mentions getting "a little windfall from a foundation [MacArthur] so expect to stay in business a while longer." Might go to Europe.
Suggests getting together if McCarthy comes out East.
"I'm looking for a book for a friend of mine and thought maybe you could help me…" Forty-Four Years of the Life of a Hunter by Meschach [sic] Browning. "The western proceeds apace – not a blistering pace, I suppose, but it goes." Describes getting caught in the middle of a gunfight between police and criminals in Knoxville, "A news lady rushed up to me with a microphone and a tape recorder and asked me what was going on. I told her I had no idea, but it certainly seemed like the good old days for a few minutes."
Promising to look for the Browning book. Asks if McCarthy couldn't use
a good agent.
"Thanks for the letter. Yes, the Meschach [sic] Browning book is what I need…" States his literary affairs are "a long and tiresome tale at best…. My agent for several years was Candida Donadio...she expressed her satisfaction at representing me personally and negotiated the contract for the book with which I am now occupied. That was the last I ever heard of her…I wrote and told her I'd like to make official what already existed in fact and we amicably parted…After this I wrote some other agents who'd been recommended to me by a friend but the one or two who wrote back seemed less than jubilant about the prospects of representing me. So Random House is now my agent…"
Has asked John Malcolm Brinnin [Gertrude Stein and Dylan Thomas biographer] about agents and his is Dorothy Olding of the Harold Ober Associates, Inc. Waiting for "the western" to come out; is buying up copies of Orchard Keeper to hand out to friends.
"Good to hear from you. Thank you for your inquiries on my behalf…" Planning a trip to New York at beginning of new year. Random House has sold the paperback rights to his early books to the Ecco Press.
Congratulations on receiving the MacArthur grant. Wall Street Journal clipping about the grant from November 19, 1981 included.
"Thank you for the letter and the good wishes…The MacArthur people just call you up and ask where to send the checks. It was something of a shock...My creditors seem much gratified…I am still struggling with my mss, but it goes ok…"
Recommending agent Peter Shepherd who handles Muriel Spark in the U.S. and suggests McCarthy contact him.
"Thanks for the letter. Please dont apologize for trying to find readers for my books…In the same mail came a letter from Peter Shepherd asking that I call him – which I've done…"
Gave copy of Orchard Keeper to neighbor who is reading it for a second time. Sending photo for inscription.
"Here's your photo…" [Photo not included].
Thanks for signing the photograph.
Asking for publication information on all of the printings of McCarthy's books.
Sending some publication information on McCarthy books.
Asking when western will be published; inquires about status of agent search
"Thanks for your letter, 'twas good to hear from you… the western - entitled Blood Meridian or The Evening of Redness In the West is set and proofread and will appear – I am told – in March…" More about his search for an agent; Ecco Press has brought out his early books.
Glad Blood Meridian is coming out; offers $100 to buy Xerox copy McCarthy had sent to Peter Shepherd [copy in box 1 folders 10 and 11].
Received the Xerox copy from Peter Shepherd; surprised at Shepherd's lack of response to McCarthy. Praises Blood Meridian; asks if McCarthy actually traveled the country described. Endorsed/canceled check to McCarthy included, as is a Spring 1985 advertisement for Random House.
"Glad that you got the Xerox…" and refunds $50.00. "To answer your question, I spent several years in the country described. I've taken the train to Mochos a couple of times and it is a great trip…"
Received his copy of Blood Meridian; likes the Dali painting. Will send copy for inscription if McCarthy agrees.
"By all means send the book and I will be happy to scribble in it and return it…Saw a nice review in USA Today (national newspaper) this past week-end but nothing other. Book in a few stores friends tell me…"
Sending copy of Blood Meridian for signature; discusses reviews and mentions meeting Dali once.
Sending Xerox of Times review. Mentions meeting Albert Erskine at a
fugitive poets exhibit at The University of Virginia. Newspaper clipping from April 28, 1985 Times included.
"Thank you very much for sending the Southern Literary Journal. Discusses Erskine. "Mostly these days I'm trying to get a film script produced into a film. The MacArthur largess expires in a little over a year and I've gotten used to eating regularly and dont know what will happen when the money stops. Other than that I have 2 or 3 novels that I have notes and a few sections for but I dont know which one to hone in on. Probably the most difficult one…"
"Thanks for sending the review (Images of the Southern Writer)…" Just back from a week-long rafting/hiking trip in Big Bend. "I'm working on a couple of stories in filmscript form. Very good form for conserving the word…"
"My good friend and attorney here - Bobby Perel - has an opportunity to buy an original set of Curtis's Indian photographs…" Asks if Woolmer knows what they might be worth. McCarthy's brother and wife visited and they went rafting down the Rio Grande "Very beautiful country. It rained in the night and the river came up 5 feet and we brought out refugees with us…"
Curtis' The North American Indian valued at about $50,000. Advises about what attorney should look for; offers to help auction it.
Follow-up on Curtis book. Recent auction at only $22,000 but not a fine set.
Christmas greetings.
"Ecco sent me about a half dozen of these [advance cover for paperback Blood Meridian] and I was just [martialing] all forces for a note to you I should I would send you one…" The Curtis book "has escaped." Asks what book Woolmer is working on. Included: advance cover inscribed "Guaranteed to be the first autographed copy. All the best, Cormac."
Thanks for Blood Meridian cover. Working on checklist of Leonard and
Virginia Woolf's Hogarth Press.
"Thank you very much for the book [Bibliography of Malcolm Lowry]. I think is quite elegant and I've enjoyed looking through it. I think Under the Volcano is an amazing book and Lowry a genuinely tragic figure…" Discusses Malcolm Lowry and Albert Erskine's relationship with him. "Thank you also for the excerpt from Rubin's book on Southern literature…I see these excerpts come from pages as advanced as #581. How long does this tome continue? I didnt know there was that much Southern Literature…" Mentions he is back from New Orleans where friend has been filming a movie with Richard Gere.
Sorry he missed McCarthy's phone call; Asks about status of Curtis book.
"Sorry I missed you on the telephone. Perel was stirring about the Curtis again, but it has subsided again since…Random House sends the proof cover of their paperback issue of Suttree – due out in October. A 'Vintage Contemporary' the jacket says. Do you love it? Gallimard has bought the rights to Blood Meridian." He's written a play.
Sending a "have-list" of his CMcC collection [not included]; offers to buy anything McCarthy has that's not on the list.
"Aint you a good chap to send the play? I thought it quite good…" Mentions that his agent has banned him for showing anyone a copy of his new play "Something to do with his strategy…"
"Thanks for the correspondence – The Writer's Choice is something I would not have seen otherwise. Tobias Wolff is a very agreeable chap…I was pleased to see I remain in his good graces…" Lists McCarthy editions that Woolmer might not have in his. "My translator was here a few weeks ago. Charming gentleman who loved the desert and kept crying out 'formidéble!' at everything…I'm working on a whale story. May go to Argentina in the fall with a biologist friend who studies them…" Asks whom else Woolmer collects. Mentions Michael Ondaatje and Guy Davenport.
Trying to get French translations. Discusses book collecting (Yount, Gilbert White Graham Swift) and bibliography writing.
Inquiring about McCarthy excerpt in text book. Warren's response indicates that he did not publish an excerpt in Understanding Fiction, but there might be a reference to McCarthy.
"This, as the card says, comes to you from Ushuzia [Argentina], the southernmost city in the world…".
"Just back from the Argentine – a good trip. Spent about 3 weeks among the whales at peninsula Valdez…[Guy] Davenport is supposed to have a new collection of essays out from North Point. I thought the first collection was just a first rate piece of work…Just finished a very interesting book called The Body in Pain by Elaine Scanny…" Sending a Yount book found for 50 cents.
Thanking him for Yount book. Recommends Robert Herring books. Enclosing Anatole Broyard New York Times Book Review article, "To Squalor, With Love" that references Suttree. [clipping included].
"Good to hear from you. I see I'm going to have to start proofreading my letters before I send them off…" Spent Christmas with his brother in Knoxville then went to California for a week. "I'm now holed up and back to work. My whale biologist friend Roger is in the Seychelles. I think I'm in the wrong business…"
"Thank you for the clipping from the NY Times. I'm just back from California, where a theatre group did a reading of a play I wrote…I've finished a rough draft of a novel [All the Pretty Horses] – Mexico & Texas in the 1940's – and started another one with much the same setting…"
Asking if McCarthy has an extra copy of the play script.
"I aint forgot you…" Is hesitant to send copy of script "because I intend some time to do some more work on it. There are elements that are just not clean…" Recommends [Bruce Chatwin's] Songlines.
Inquiring about advance copies of Outer Dark and Child of God.
Passing along compliment from Bruce Chatwin. Also inquiring about selling his papers; is establishing a relationship with a university library that would be in position to purchase his archives. Advises to never throw anything away.
"I've been in my non communication mode for some time but I have to write and thank you for the very handsome book…I appreciate your inquiry about my manuscripts. I've got – I suppose – most of them packed away in a storage locker along with corrected proofs and galleys and such. I dont really propose to do any thing with this junk except keep it…Anyway I'm still at work on my little projects I've finished rough drafts of 2 novels and started a third. They are all three connected…"
"Sorry for the long hiatus in our correspondence…" Just received a batch of reviews [All the Pretty Horses]. "I was very distressed over Chatwin's death. A talented and honest man and a decent human being – the perfect candidate, in other words for the fates to single out…I've lost another writer friend two weeks ago – Ed Abbey. I think he came across in his writing as some thing of a curmudgen [sic] but he was a kind and generous man – qualities, sad to say, not common to writers…" Refers to Woolmer's comments about selling his manuscripts, "I get requests from institutions wanting me to send them my manuscripts. I sometimes wonder vaguely what they think I use for money. I've been a full time professional writer for 28 years and I've never received a royalty check. That, I'll betcha, is a record…"
Shocked over Chatwin's death; discusses Henry Miller and Saul Bellow manuscripts sales; advises not to give away his papers.
Inquiring how to pronounce "Suttree." Arguing with friend that it is "Suhtree."
"Thanks for your note. You win the wager. It never occurred to me that folks would pronounce Suttree to rhyme with shoe tree but they do…"
Suggests bringing Dr. Thomas F. Staley, Director of the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas to El Paso to meet McCarthy.
Woolmer and Staley thinking of coming out in to El Paso in October.
Sending Paul Watkins novel; more about October trip possibility.
Staley suggests October 15, 16, or 17.
Attended American Academy awards and disappointed McCarthy was a no-show. Hopes to see him in El Paso in fall.
Thanking for proof copy of All the Pretty Horses; praises book. Will be in Austin for dinner for Elizabeth Hardwick, but won't make it to El Paso.
Asking about McCarthy signing copies of books; offers to broker deal for his papers with the HRHRC.
Thanking for signed books. Inquires about scripts for The Stonemason and The Gardner's Son.
Inquiring about The Stonemason.
Recently spent the day with Guy Davenport; went to The University of Tennessee library and found "Wake for Susan" and "A Drowning Incident" published in the Phoenix.
"Cormac McCarthy invites you – on the occasion of his receiving the National Book Award for 1992 – to a party to be held on Saturday December 19th at the law offices of Malcolm McGregor and Bobby Perel."
Sending Thomas Staley's review of All the Pretty Horses for Harper & Queen. TMs included, inscribed: "To Howard Woolmer, I've cut and cut for Harper and Queen. I could write a book on this fine novel. Best wishes, Tom 12/7/92"
Thanking for party and lunch; Suggests limited edition of The Stonemason.
Thanking for Stonemason; sending check for $100; congratulations on National Book Critics Circle Award.
Sending article in Firsts.
Reporting on purchase of French editions during Paris trip.
Inquiring about French editions.
Update on All the Pretty Horses printings.
Complimenting "The Wolf Trapper."
More about collecting foreign editions; asking to publish limited edition of The Stonemason.
Sending books for signature; read in a London Times poll that both John Banville and Roddy Doyle listed McCarthy as one of "the greatest living novelists writing in English."
Thanking for signed books.
Regarding John Sheddan and McCarthy's desire to purchase back letters he'd sent to Sheddan. Corresponding note (TMs, 1 p.) from Woolmer about his dealings with Sheddan.
Proving fair market appraisals of three signed McCarthy books.
Had coffee with Marisa and Sylvia Erskine.
Alerting McCarthy to bookmarks quoting him. Inquires about future limited editions.
Heard that Thomas Staley met McCarthy in El Paso; urges McCarthy to consider the HRHRC as home for his papers.
Thanking for inscribed Gardener's Son; just back from Vancouver.
Inquiring about a proof copy of Cities of the Plain.
Asking McCarthy to inscribe Cities of the Plain.
Sending Cities of the Plain for inscription; congratulations on wedding and wife's pregnancy.
Thanking for Cities of the Plain; recommends The Bandana, a new opera with a libretto written by Paul Muldoon.
Signed, and with a print-out of a digital image of the John Francis McCarthy, 5 months.
Inquires about screenplays "Whales and Men" and "Cities of the Plain."
Working on a new collection; going to Morocco.
Printout of digital image with holograph annotation "John Francis McCarthy 15 months/Nov '99 All best, Cormac."
Thanking for photograph
Printout of digital image with holograph annotation "John Francis McCarthy, Age 2."
Thanking for photograph; Comments on All the Pretty Horses film.
Asking McCarthy to sign No Country for Old Men; meeting with Phillip Murray in New York.
"Sorry to be so late answering your nice letter…" Has been in Ireland.
Sending book for signature; working on Irish Theatre Collection for Princeton.
Thanking for inscribing No Country for Old Men; is reading Blood Meridian again.
Writings by McCarthy includes photocopies of drafts of Blood Meridian, The Crossing, Cities of the Plain, The Road, The Stonemason, and The Gardener's Son. The works are arranged into following subseries: Novels, Plays, and Screenplays.
Writings about McCarthy comprises reviews and articles about McCarthy from Esquire, The New Yorker, Southern Literary Journal, Texas Monthly, and other publications. The writings are arranged alphabetically by author. Also included are a number off clippings files about McCarthy and a small collection of ephemera such as publishers catalogs, flyers, and press packets.
J. Howard Woolmer bibliography files consist of Woolmer's files and notes on a possible bibliography on McCarthy. Of note are Woolmer's correspondence files regarding collecting McCarthy.
The SilverStar Entertainment Group Antone's: Home of the Blues Collection contains materials used in the production and release of the documentary film, Antone's: Home of the Blues. The bulk of the collection is video recordings of performances, interviews and other raw footage used to produce the film. The collection is arranged into three series: Production Videos, Marketing and Publicity, and Documentary.
This series consists of 318 DV cam tapes of raw footage used in the production of the film, as well as DVD viewing copies and inventories of the tapes.
This series contains photocopies of reviews of Antone's: Home of the Blues, press releases, biographies, a cast list, a Certificate of Registration, the film trailer, and a Fox 7 News clip about the film's premiere at the 2004 SXSW film festival.
Austin Chronicle, March 12, 2004;
Living Blues, July/August 2006;
Big City Blues, Aug. – Sept. 2006;
VideoScope-The Phantom of the Movies, Fall 2006;
Home Media Retailing, April 30 – May 6, 2006;
The Hollywood Reporter, May 24, 2006;
The New York Times, May 25, 2006;
CityBeat Cincinnati, June 16, 2006;
Chicago Sun-Times.com, June 2, 2006;
GuideLive.com, June 16, 2006;
Houston Chronicle, June 13, 2006;
Los Angeles Times, June 16, 2006;
Movie City News, Aug. 1, 2006;
DVD Talk, June 6, 2006;
The Rasputin Manifesto, June 2006;
Billboard.com, June 10, 2006.
Cast list, synopsis, introduction of director, executive producer and producer, and biography sheet for majority of musicians in DVD. One red folder which originally housed press releases and other information.
Includes one DVD with the news story of the premiere of Antone's: Home of the Blues at the South by Southwest Film festival; news story aired on Fox 7 News in Austin, Texas, with one archival DVD copy
This series includes a commercial DVD copy of Antone's: Home of the Blues, as well as a VHS tape and DVD viewing copy of the premier version, labeled "1st edit premiered @ SxSW 3/04".
The Robert Benton Papers document the filmmaking career of the Oscar-winning writer and director from 1969-1994. The collection is arranged in six series: personal papers (1940s, 1987 and 1984); produced works (1972-1994); unproduced works (1969-1988); works by others (including works from Walter Bernstein and Naomi Foner); photographs; artwork (storyboards, posters, and set designs); and framed photoprints.
The bulk of the collection represents some of Benton's most seminal works including screenplays, notes, publicity, and other production material from his produced films, Bad Company, Kramer vs. Kramer, Still of the Night, Nadine, Places in the Heart, Billy Bathgate, and Nobody's Fool.
The papers also include the screenplays, scripts, and notes from some of Benton's unproduced works including "Hubba-Hubba or Will the Big Bands Ever Come Back?," "The Coast," "Stardust," "Magic Hour," and the manuscript for Benton's unpublished novel, "Lover – A Novel of Suspense." Photographs, contact sheets, publicity stills, and color slides from Benton's produced films provide visual documentation of the filmmaking process, as do numerous story boards from Nadine and Places in the Heart, movie posters from nine of Benton's projects, set designs from Billy Bathgate, and framed photoprints of Benton on set with actors such as Dustin Hoffman and Bruce Willis.
The smallest of the series, it consists of papers regarding Italy (1940s), information on a computer, clippings from the Bakker scandal (1987), and a playbill from Death of a Salesman.
Produced works comprise the bulk of the collection. It consists of screenplays, notes, publicity, and other production material for the films Bad Company, Kramer vs. Kramer, Still of the Night, Nadine, Places in the Heart, Billy Bathgate, and Nobody's Fool.
This series consists of scripts/screenplays and notes from projects that have not been produced, and a manuscript for the unpublished novel "Lover – A Novel of Suspense." The unproduced works are "Hubba-Hubba or Will the Big Bands Ever Come Back?," "The Coast," "Stardust," and "Magic Hour."
The works by others in this series are from Sullivan Street (by Walter Bernstein), Hoffa (by David Mamet), and The Homesman or Seeing the Elephant (by Naomi Foner).
This series is the second largest and includes photographs from Still of the Night, Places in the Heart, Billy Bathgate, Nobody's Fool, and Magic Hour.
This series consists of story boards, posters, set designs, set drawings, set plans, and framed photoprints that are oversized and do not fit into standard size archival boxes. It includes story boards from Nadine and Places in the Heart; posters from Still of the Night, Billy Bathgate, Bad Company, The Late Show, Places in the Heart, Kramer vs. Kramer, Nobody's Fool, Nadine (French version), and Twilight; set designs/drawings from Billy Bathgate; framed two photographs of Benton with Dustin Hoffman and Bruce Willis, and Benton with Bruce Willis; and Johnson's New Map of Texas.
The Jody Fischer Collection of Willie Nelson spans from 1976-2003, with the bulk of the materials covering 1983-1988. The collection is comprised of photographs, audio cassette tapes and video tapes collected by Jody Fischer that relate to Willie Nelson. The arrangement of the collection is entirely artificial as the materials were not organized when received. Titles in quotation marks were written by Jody Fischer.
The collection is arranged into the following six series: Personal Papers, Ephemera, Photographs, Audio Cassette Tapes, VHS Tapes, and T-Shirts and Hats.
This series includes correspondence letters, rough drafts of song lyrics and a birthday card to Jody Fischer.
Letter to Jody Fischer from Don Mischer, undated
Birthday card to Jody Fischer from Connie Nelson, [1985]
Letter to Willie Nelson from Gary Fiellgaard. Handwritten lyrics to "She Can Survive" on yellow notebook paper enclosed.
Pedernales Recording Studio letterhead and envelope (blank)
Map of Ned Blessing locations by Lauren Film Productions
This series includes programs, a calendar, and a press kit for Red Headed Stranger. The press kit includes photos on set, director's notes and cast descriptions. Programs include Austin Opry House performances, Run for Your Life program, Farm Aid 1985 program and First Decade Reunion program. The calendar is a Willie Nelson calendar from 1983.
This series is divided into six parts: Willie Nelson portraits; Willie Nelson performing; Willie Nelson with others [non-performance]; non-Willie Nelson photographs; snapshots on the set of Red Headed Stranger, and snapshots on the set of Ned Blessing.
Wearing red bandana
Driving a pickup truck (2)
Speaking
Standing next to a pickup on a snowy day
Wearing leopard print "punk Willie"
Shirtless with new haircut
Wearing black hat
With Belles of Joy in studio (5)
In back room of Pedernales Recording Studio
With others in recording studio (2)
With Ray Charles recording (5)
On stage alone
Fourth of July concert (2)
Farm Aid (5)
With Neil Young and John Mellencamp at Farm Aid
With Johnny Cash at Farm Aid
George Jones
Jody Fischer, Sammy Allred at Lone Star album release
Lana Nelson's wedding, August 8, 1988
Neil Young on "Working Cowboys" video (5)
Merle Haggard, David Lyn Jones
Faran Young, Fred Foster
Jesse Jackson at Farm Aid (2)
Jody Fischer, Fred Foster, Faran Young, Chip Young, Bobby Arnold
Playing golf (2)
Driving with a passenger
Others on set of "Red Headed Stranger" (10)
B Spears on set of "Red Headed Stranger"
Crew of "Red Headed Stranger" filming (16)
Jody Fischer, Carolyn Mugar, Bill Wittliff, Lana Nelson at Wittliff's office, 1986. (Photo by Bill Wittliff)
IRS auction pictures (3)
Carolyn Mugar, Bill Wittliff, Jody Fischer, Manc Rothbaum at Tuscan January, 1986 (10)
Wittliff, Fischer, Drascoll, Roach at "Ned Blessing" wrap
Bill Wittliff and Connie Todd at work (2)
Bill Wittliff and Jody Fischer on set
Tim Scott and Jody Fischer on set
Hank Snow, Johnny Gimble on couch
Carolyn Mugar and Jody Fischer at Red Headed Stranger opening
Coach Royal, Bill McDavid, Booker T. Jones, Bobby Arnold, Larry Greenhill, Jody Fischer- live performance at Cowboys game
Booker T. Jones and Larry Greenhill- "Without a Song" session
Chips Mamam at Willie Nelson's studio
Bobby Emmens, Davis Cherry, Reggie Young, Larry Greenhill, Bobby Arnold, Mike Lach- "Memphis Band" taking a break
Jody Fischer, Larry Greenhill, Bobby Arnold, Lana Nelson- Pedernales Recording Studio staff
Bobby Arnold, Ray Benson, Freddy Powers- singing in back room of Pedernales Studio
Townes Van Zandt on set of "Pancho and Lefty" (3)
Carolyn Mugar and Jody Fischer on Willie Nelson's boat
Kimmie Rhodes and Bobby Lee Nelson
Kimmie Rhodes and Joe Ely
Lana Nelson standing by red car
Connie Todd posing for camera
Connie Todd, Lana Nelson, Luis Avalos, Jody Fischer on set of Ned Blessing
Larry Greenhill and Bobby Arnold as "golf kings"
Bobbie Nelson and Clifford Antone at Lana Nelson's wedding, August 8, 1988
Jody Fischer and Kris Kristofferson (4)
Carolyn Mugar at work (2)
Cast and Crew down on set (11)
Luck, TX on a snowy day
View of River (2)
Pedernales Recording Studio- control room
Lana Nelson in Jody Fischer's office at Pedernales Recording Studio (4)
Farm Aid donation box
Willie Nelson (39)
Bill Wittliff (5)
Morgan Fairchild (1)
General (98)
Willie Nelson (1)
Jody Fischer (22)
Bill Wittliff (5)
General (52)
Posters are divided into Willie Nelson and non-Willie Nelson subseries. The Nelson posters include ones for the sixth annual Fourth of July picnic; Honeysuckle Rose, and two advertising concerts. The bulk of the non-Willie Nelson posters are for concerts at the Austin Opry House by performers such as The Charlie Daniels Band, Kinky Friedman, Dave Loggins, The Lost Gonzo Band, and Taj Mahal.
These audio cassettes primarily feature Willie Nelson, though there are several of other recording artists. The cassettes are in varying condition, some have been recorded over multiple times and the labels are not always descriptive of what is on the tape. The series of audio recordings has been divided into 5 subseries; Jody Fischer recordings, Willie Nelson studio recordings, Willie Nelson dated live recordings, Willie Nelson undated live recordings, and other recording artists. The collection also included a variety of commercially produced and released cassettes that have been transferred to the library holdings.
The cassettes covered a broad scope of music, as well as some personal recordings of events, phone calls and jam sessions. The cassettes did not have a particular original order, and when possible have been arranged by date. The priority for sorting recordings was broken down by separating out the Studio recordings, Jody's own recordings which give insight to the interests and activities outside of strictly music that she participated in as an individual and as Willie Nelson's personal assistant. Following that recordings are sorted by those including Willie Nelson, and those of other artists.
When it is not possible to sort by date, the recordings are sorted by alphabetical order of contributing artists. Often the labels only include first names, such as Hank, Dolly, Kris, Frank, and Johnny to name a few. While some of the last names can be inferred based on other famous musicians and context, last names that have been added by the processing staff are put in parenthesis to indicate that they are additions not included on the actual labels.
Subseries 1: Jody Fisher Recordings, 1988-1996, undated
These recordings are difficult to date, frequently Fischer has recorded over other tapes, and many of her recordings have Willie Nelson music on the other side. These recordings include phone conversations, Hawaiian music taped from the radio on her trip to Hawaii, and programs focusing on Native American civil rights, amongst other topics.
Subseries 2: Willie Nelson Studio Recordings, 1983-1987, undated
These recordings with one exception are from the Pedernales Studio. They are arranged by date when possible, with undated recordings at the end of the series.
Subseries 3: Willie Nelson Recordings Dated, 1976-1995
These recordings vary from jam sessions to concerts to rough recordings prior to production. Often they include other artists such as Kris Kristofferson, Merle Haggard, and other country, folk and blues artists.
Subseries 4: Willie Nelson Recordings, Undated
These recordings are similar to those in subseries 3, except that they are undated. Recordings will be grouped by collaborating artists listed on the labels.
Subseries 5: Recordings by Other Artists, 1982-1986, undated
These are other unproduced recordings in the Jody Fischer collections featuring other artists. These are sorted alphabetically by artist last name.
Tape has a date of December 1, 1985 on label.
This series consists of VHS and U-Matic tapes. Most of the tapes are programs featuring Willie Nelson recorded from television. The programs include news interviews, music concerts, television shows and film. The majority of the tapes are produced video although, there are some tapes featuring raw footage of Willie Nelson. The raw footage includes a music performance at a bar in 1990, the auction of Willie Nelson's personal belongings, Willie Nelson performing at Phoenix Indian School and Willie Nelson performing a toast to Mae Boren Axton. The raw footage tapes have been copied onto DVDs.
The collection also includes television recordings of Farm Aid 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 that aired on the MTV network. The VHS tapes that do not feature Willie Nelson include two episodes of Ned Blessing, a raw footage recording of the play, Small Town Girl and a raw footage recording of a tribal award ceremony with Kris Kristoferson in attendance. Titles supplied by Jody Fischer are in quotations.
This series is divided into five subseries: Farm Aid Concerts, Farm Aid Related Videos, Willie Nelson Produced Video, Willie Nelson Raw Footage and Non-Willie Nelson.
The bulk of the series are T-shirts, sweatshirts, jackets and hats. Most of the T-Shirts are from Farm Aid, the 4th of July Picnic, and other concerts with some from various running events, and a few from the Austin Opry House. The four sweatshirts are from Farm Aid. The jackets include paraphernalia from Willie Nelson concerts, Pederanales Recording Studio, and the 1984 Darrel and Willie Invitational. There are two hats; one white hat with "Willie Nelson Luck Texas," on the band, and one baseball cap with "Willie Nelson Who'll Buy My Memories? The IRS Tapes," on the front. Also included in this series is a variety of items including match boxes, pins, golf balls fans, and bumper stickers.
Farm Aid. Black T-Shirt.
Farm Aid IV. Black T-Shirt.
Farm Aid. White T-Shirt. 1987.
Farm Aid. Black T-Shirt. 1985.
arm Aid III. Yellow T-Shirt.
Farm Aid II. Tan T-Shirt.
Farm Aid. Grey T-Shirt. 1985.
Farm Aid. White Sweat Shirt.
Farm Aid II. Gray Sweat Shirt.
"Farm Aid II Keep America Growing." Picture of tractor and American flag.
"Farm Aid Keep America Growing." [Front]. Farm Aid University Memorial Stadium Champaign Illinois September 22, 1985."
4th of July Picnic. Dark Blue T-Shirt. 1975.
4th of July Picnic. Yellow T-Shirt. 1976.
4th of July Picnic. Blue and White T-Shirt. 1985.
3rd annual 4th of July Picnic. White and Yellow T-Shirt.
4th of July Picnic with Armadillo. 1987.
4th of July Picnic. Red T-Shirt. 1976
4th of July Picnic. White and Yellow T-Shirt. 1974.
4th of July Picnic. White and Yellow T-Shirt. 1974.
4th of July Picnic. Blue and White T-Shirt. 1979.
4th of July Picnic. Blue and White T-Shirt. 1978.
4th of July Picnic with American Flag. Blue and White T-Shirt.
"Opening Celebration Lone Star Records Austin Opry House June 19, 1978."
[Front]. White Ringer Tee.
"Austin Opry House Grand Opening Presents Willie Nelson and Family Special
Guest Ol' Whats-His-Name June 28, 1977." [Front]. White Ringer Tee.
"Willie Nelson and Many Others." Picture of Texas with tennis shoes. [Front].
Black T-Shirt.
Willie Nelson's Whiskey River." Picture of Texas with tennis shoes. [Front].
Brown T-Shirt.
Picture of Willie Nelson in flying tennis shoe. [Front]. Black T-Shirt.
"The Willie Nelson Running Society 11th Annual Birthday Run April 29th, 1989
Atlanta GA." Picture of Georgia with American Flag. [Front]. Blue Tank
Top.
"Willie (no head no backstage pass." Picture of a road. [Front]. Black T-Shirt.
"Willie and Family On the Road Again." [Front]. Black T-Shirt.
"Willie and Family On the Road Again." [Front]. Black Sleeveless T-Shirt.
"Thanks from Willie and the Boys." [Front]. "Stage Hand." Picture of five
Armadillos carrying giant speaker. [Back]. Blue T-Shirt.
"Stage Hand." Picture of five Armadillos carrying giant speaker. [Front].
"Thanks from Willie and the Boys." [Back]. White Baseball Tee with blue
sleeves.
"Willie Nelson at the Golden Nugget Las Vegas." [Front]. White T-Shirt.
"It's Still Not Weird Enough for Me! Songwriter." [Front]. "It's All Wrong
Change It!" [Back]. Grey T-Shirt.
"Willie Nelson Red Headed Stranger." [Front]. White T-Shirt.
"Willie Nelson for President." [Front]. White T-Shirt.
Picture of Texas with Willie's face. [Front]. Black T-Shirt.
"Jody." [Front]. "Willie and Family On the Road Again." [Back]. Black Jacket.
"Songwriter." [Back]. Black Jacket with yellow horizontal stripes.
Willie Nelson & Family in Concert HBO." [Back]. Black jacket.
"Wrangler Jeans Willie Nelson & Family." [Front]. "Wranger." [Back]. Grey
Jacket with blue and yellow stripes.
"John." [Front]. "Pedernales Recording Studio Cut 'N Putt." [Back]. Brown
 Jacket with navy blue stripe.
"1984 Darrell & Willie Invitational." [Front]. Navy Blue Jacket.
"Willie Nelson Luck Texas." White hat with black band
"Willie Nelson "Who'll Buy My Memories? The IRS Tapes 1-800-652-3400." Black baseball cap with white front
The Nadine Eckhardt Collection spans from the 1920s-2009. The collection is comprised of photographs, correspondence, business materials, newspapers clippings and early and final versions of Duchess of Palms. The original order of the Nadine Eckhardt Collection was maintained with minimal changes. The collection was originally arranged chronologically by Duchess of Palms materials, correspondence between Nadine and Billy Lee Brammer 1956-1968, correspondence between Bob, Nadine, and her family 1970s-1983, and Nadine's personal correspondence, 1944 through 1999. The chronological order was maintained, but the materials were organized into five series: Personal Papers - restaurant and scrapbook materials, Family Papers - Billy Lee Brammer, Bob Eckhardt, family, and personal, Photographs - organized chronologically, Print Materials - newspapers and other articles, and Duchess of Palms Materials - drafts, timelines and notes.
Original folder tiles are in quotation marks.
The first series includes papers related to the life of Nadine Eckhardt. There are invitations for Bob and Nadine Eckhardt, drawings by unidentified sources, and documents relating to the restaurant Nadine's
The second series is divided into four subseries: Billy Lee Brammer, Bob Eckhardt, Family, and Other/Unidentified. All correspondence is arranged chronologically within the subseries. Included are many letters that Nadine Eckhardt wrote to others and photocopied for her own records. The largest of the subseries is Other/Unidentified, and within this contains correspondence with acclaimed journalist, Bob Sherrill and several of Eckhardt's high school boyfriends.
The photographs are arranged in chronological order by decade. Many of the earlier photographs include her mother and stepfather. There are some photographs of Nadine Eckhardt during the time she modeled. There are also numerous photographs of Nadine Eckhardt's children, Shelby, Sidney and Sarah, and many of Bob Eckhardt.
Nadine Ellen Thompson (Nadine Eckhardt's mother)(photocopy)
Leslie Wells (Nadine Eckhardt's biological father)(photocopy)
Noah Cannon, Nadine Cannon, Little Nadine, Leslie Cannon; circa 1939 taken by Denson Photo in Dallas, TX (photocopy)
Noah Lee Cannon (Nadine Eckhardt's adoptive father); circa mid 1940s (photocopy)
Photo information sheet
"Nadine Cannon modeling underwear and pjs for a Vanity Fair Factory
near Denton, TX;"1949 or 1950 (photocopy)
Photo information sheet for 1
Nadine Cannon; 1949 or 1950(photocopy)
Photo Information Sheet for 3
Five "Children's Photos," 1950s
Sam Rayburn and Ralph Yarborough; early 1950 (photocopy)
"Nadine on roof of architecture building" 1951(photocopy)
"Stevenson at press conference LBJ Ranch;" Grace Tully, Sam Rayburn,
Lyndon Baines Johnson, Adlai; 1955 (photocopy)
"Mary Margaret and Nadine sitting on Harry McPherson's knees at Party
at Duggers House;" Mary Margaret Wylie, Harry McPherson and Nadine; 1955 (photocopy)
"Nadine sitting on Harry McPherson's lap; 1955 (photocopy)
"LBJ in majority leader's office; Lyndon Baines Johnson; 1955 or 1956(photocopy)
"Nadine in Arlington House"taken by Bill Brammer (photocopy)
"Willie Morris, Nadine Brammer with daughters Sydney and Shelby
Brammer 1957 in front of house on Enfied Rd. Austin" 1957 (photocopy)
"Nadine holding up fish at LBJ Ranch-with daughter Sidney" 1957 or 1958, taken by Bill Brammer (photocopy)
Three photocopies taped onto one page
"Nadine on NTSC campus. Taken by Bill Brammer 1950" taken by Bill Brammer (photocopy)
"Nadine and Michael Janeway at Paleface Ranch" circa 1960 (3-1 photocopy)
"Bob Eckhardt, State Representative from Houston" 1962 or 1963 photograph; taken by Russell Lee (2- both photocopies)
Photo information sheet for 4 and 5
"Bob and Nadine 1963 moved into house newly built"
"Bob and Nadine 1963 moved into house" Nadine and Bob Eckhardt
"Russell Lee volunteered to take Bob's photo for his campaign for
Congress in 1966"(photocopy)
Photo Information Sheet for 9
"L-R, Norma Eckhardt, Bob's mother, state rep. Bob Eckhardt who was
running for Congress and Nadine Eckhardt, in Bob's Campaign HDQTRS. In 1966" 1966 (photocopy)
"Congressman Bob Eckhardt and Nadine on Air Force One en route to
Party in Austin with LBJ in June 16, 1967" (photocopy)
"Bob Eckhardt, Bob Pierpoint (Newsman, deceased), Barbara Bush,
Nadine, Jessica Hobby Cato, Cong. George Bush, Bill Hobby on Capitol Steps 1967" (photocopy)
"Photo: L-R Paul (deceased), LBJ, Nadine, Bob Eckhardt, Bayou Club, Houston, at party in honor of John Connally 1969 Feb. 13" (photocopy)
"Taken in District?;" Sarah Eckhardt (8 yrs old); April 30, 1973
"Nadine, Bob and Sarah at reception in Bob's District Office for federal
employees" April 30, 1973 (photocopy)
"L-R Unknown, Unknown, Nadine, Beulah Shepard,1973"(photocopy)
"L-R: Grace Tully, Nadine, State Senator Walter Richter, Nadine, Bob
Eckhardt, Cong. Chick Kazen, at Andrews AFB, waiting for LBJs body to arrive" 1973 (3)
"Hofneinz Pavilion in Houston, Mack Hofheinz was Mayor's wife;" 1974 (2- both photocopies)
"Photos of Nadine, Betty Dooley and Ann Brinkley and Bob in front of
house in Georgetown 1975" (photocopy)
"1975" (33)
"1976" (12)
"1977" (5)
"1979" (7)
"from 1978" (55)
"from 1978" Duplicates of photos taken in Nadine's Restaurant (43)
"from 1978" Funerals (9)
"1970s photos" (38)
"1980s" (9)
"1981s" (23)
"1981" "Photo of Nadine and Ann Richards Fundraiser at Nadine's in
NYC October 30, 1989"
"1981" "Nadine's in NYC 1988 or '89" (3)
"Roy and Lil at Ann Richards political Party - 9 Dec 1975"
"Texas Capital by Rosalind Eckhardt in mid 70s" (19)
Unidentified photos (14)
"George Crane 1971 Georgetown University Student"
"G.W. Bush at dedication of LBJ Library, Austin 1967, taken by Eckhardt
"Curtis Graves 68 and 89"(3)
NASA Manned Spacecraft Center, Houston, TX; L-R Mrs. Robert Turner, Robert Tuner, Mrs. Bob Eckhardt, Astronaut Michael Collins; January 27, 1967 (3)
Unidentified photos (14)
The fourth series mainly consists of news clippings and magazine articles. These are arranged into subseries: Billy Lee Brammer, Bob Eckhardt, Nadine Eckhardt, Family, and related resources. There are documents, event programs, and articles related to travel included.
The fifth series is related to Eckhardt's research, writing, and publishing of her memoir Duchess of Palms. It includes timelines of Eckhardt's life and several working copies of the manuscript.
The Sam Shepard and Johnny Dark Collection spans 1972-2011 and documents the men's forty-plus year friendship. The collection is arranged in five series: Correspondence, Dialogues, Photographs, Audio Material, and Video Material.
Series I: Correspondence comprises the bulk of the collection (boxes 1-4) and is arranged chronologically. The first letters are from the early 1970s when the Shepards lived briefly in England and the Darks remained in California. Because the two families lived together for many years, there are few letters until 1980 when Shepard began filming on location. The letters pick up in earnest in 1983 after Shepard left his wife and son and began a long-term relationship with actress Jessica Lange. For the next three decades, the two men kept up a fairly regular correspondence.
Series II: Dialogues is over 200 pages of typed transcripts of conversations that Dark and Shepard recorded in the 1970s and 1980s. Arranged in themed sections by Dark, the conversations cover a wide range of topics including relationships, writing, film, ageing, and friendship.
Series III: Photographs is comprised of photographs collected by Dark. Many are mounted onto notebook pages with annotations in Dark's hand. These photographs provide a glimpse into the private lives of the men. The bulk of the photos are of Shepard and Dark, but there are also images of Scarlett Dark, O-Lan Jones, Jesse Shepard, Sam Rogers (Shepard's father) and Jessica Lange. The photographs are in the order in which Dark arranged them, and each has a unique identifying number (001-178) assigned by the archivist. In addition to the numbered photographs, there are over 250 snapshots taken by Dark. Many of these are duplicates of the numbered photographs, but there are several unique ones including shots of Shepard on the set of All the Pretty Horses with Matt Damon, photos from Jesse Shepard's wedding, and more photos of Shepard and of Dark.
Series IV: Audio Material contains 28 tapes of varying audio quality. Most of the tapes feature conversations between Shepard and Dark - some recorded in person, some over the telephone. The tapes from the 1970s and 1980s form the basis of Dark's typescript, Dialogues, in Series II. All of the cassettes have been digitized, and there are listening copies available. Archives staff have provided summaries of many, but not all, of the digitized tapes.
Series V: Video Material consists of two items. The first is a VHS tape of home movies shot by Dark. The video quality is relatively poor, but the tape has been digitized and a viewing copy is available. The second item is a DVD of the documentary, Shepard and Dark, directed by Treva Wurmfeld. Access to this DVD is by special permission only.
Terminology Notes for the correspondence:
ALS Autograph [handwritten] Letter Signed (AL = Autograph Letter)
TLS Typed Letter Signed (TL = Typed Letter)
Series I: Correspondence comprises the bulk of the collection (boxes 1-4) and is arranged chronologically. The first letters are from the early 1970s when the Shepards lived briefly in England and the Darks remained in California. Because the two families lived together for many years, there are few letters until 1980 when Shepard began filming on location. The letters pick up in earnest in 1983 after Shepard left his wife and son and began a long-term relationship with actress Jessica Lange. For the next three decades, the two men kept up a fairly regular correspondence.
Series II: Dialogues is over 200 pages of typed transcripts of conversations that Dark and Shepard recorded in the 1970s and 1980s. Arranged in themed sections by Dark, the conversations cover a wide range of topics including relationships, writing, film, ageing, and friendship.
Titled sections [approximately 1-4 pages each]
Introduction
Themes and Subjects
Life
Einstein
Marilyn Monroe and Hollywood
Hugh Hefner and Playboy
Howard Hughes
Biographys [sic]
Harry Truman
The Feeling of Places
Movies and Plays
Overhearing Yourself
Gangsters
The Moth
Neighbors
Writing and Imagination
Interviews and the Boarding House
Presence and Effort
Ideas and Projects
Resturants [sic] and Neighborhood
Eyes and Light
Pretending
Chicken, Cafes and Loafers
The Prospector Play
Theatre Form
Insults
The Hotel
L.A.
Posessions [sic]
Shepard's Plays
"Period" Movies
Advice
Zane Grey
Radio Voice
Stage Directing
Sight Gags and Circuses
Reactions to Fear
Dennis in the Theatre
Casting
Teenage Memories
The First Girl
Julie Harris and the Senator from Baltimore
Theatre Sound
Sound and the Movies
Movie Characters
The Right Stuff
Fool For Love
A Friend
Manhatten [sic]
Film Production Meeting
The Room
Possibilities
Arnald [sic] and the Vaquaroes [sic]
Fag Mailmen and Cursing
4-F
Haircuts
Folk Singers and Cowboy Stars
Neil Cassidy
Bird Imitation
Living with the Carpenters
Ideas for a Film
2 by Truffeut
On the Ranch
Coach McAdams
Zen Mountain
Sets and Came
Dressing Up Nature
Walking the Property – '76
Collaberation [sic]
Book Inscription
The Pink Panther
Lip Syncing
Matt Painting
Talking Formally
Micraphones [sic] in the Movies
The Origin and Power of Moving Pictures
Possible Origins of Theatre and the Decline of the Form of American Movie Theaters
The Death Scene
Planning for the Filming of Endgame
Singing and Remembering
The New Mexico Conversations
Relating Historical Events
Jokes, Humor and Comedians
Woody Allen
A Phase
Ageing
Beginnings
Movie Endings
Betrayal Movies
Conversation Changer
An Out of Control Reminisence [sic]
A Slapped Down Town
On the Road
Old Friends at the Lodge
Loading the Gun
Spelling on the Desert
Out on the Desert at Night
Having a Mission
Omens, Lesson and Elders
Remembering
In Front of the Bookcase
The Old Man
Relationships
Mid Life Crisis
Conversations between J. and S. and S's son Jesse who was ten between the ages of 7 and 9, 1977 to 1979 California
The Rasberry [sic] Story
Whale Meat and Grapes
Feeling the Salami
School Teachers
Teasing the Kid
Series III: Photographs is comprised of photographs collected by Dark. Many are mounted onto notebook pages with annotations in Dark's hand. These photographs provide a glimpse into the private lives of the men. The bulk of the photos are of Shepard and Dark, but there are also images of Scarlett Dark, O'Lan Jones, Jesse Shepard, Sam Rogers (Shepard's father) and Jessica Lange. The photographs are in the order in which Dark arranged them, and each has a unique identifying number (001-178) assigned by the archivist. In addition to the numbered photographs, there are over 250 snapshots taken by Dark. Many of these are duplicates of the numbered photographs, but there are several unique ones including shots of Shepard on the set of All the Pretty Horses with Matt Damon, photos from Jesse Shepard's wedding, and more photos of Shepard and of Dark.
Series IV: Audio Material contains 28 tapes of varying audio quality. Most of the tapes feature conversations between Shepard and Dark - some recorded in person, some over the telephone. The tapes from the 1970s and 1980s form the basis of Dark's typescript, Dialogues, in Series II. All of the cassettes have been digitized, and there are listening copies available. Archives staff have provided summaries of many, but not all, of the digitized tapes.
Johnny talks about an old girlfriend named Evelyn and the first time they met. He gives a description of her physical appearance and how they "made out" in a car. There are also various other things that are hard to hear or understand because of the low volume.
Side A: On this side of the tape, Sam and Johnny play guitar and sing songs. They discuss different places they have lived, how Los Angeles started out as a hacienda, how to become a "man with a mission", how Sam's first play had old men in it and how his plays have young men who turn old. They also discuss the racial tensions with Jazz music in the 1940's and how they should make movies about it.
Side B: Johnny discusses the contents of a letter he received from a girlfriend about how she is not in love with him. Johnny goes on to talk about the break up and some of his past relationships.
Side A: Sam and Johnny talk about rugged individualism, luck and circumstances as factors of success and achievement. They try to define rugged and come to the conclusion that it is a false concept. They also briefly talk about the movie "The Right Stuff" and various things about it.
Side B: Sam and Johnny continue their discussion on rugged individualism, what the rugged individual would posses as far as material things, knowing whether you have ruggedness or not and having the "right stuff". They also make a list of people throughout history who have had the "right stuff". Sam also discusses filming The Right Stuff and how hard it was to film yet everyone worked as a team and how writing letters are a more personal way of communication.
Side A: This is a continuation from the previous tape. They continue to make of list of people in history who have and did not have the "right stuff". Sam also talks more about filming The Right Stuff.
Side B: Sam and Johnny discuss writing the epilogue, Chuck Yeager's abilities, how Sam is receiving scripts and conditioning for polo.
Side A: A phone conversation between Sam and Johnny about several adventures in drinking and getting "smashed". Their conversation eventually turns to drug experiences, addictions and what affects smoking grass had on them. They also discuss what books they are currently reading at the moment. Johnny also talks about his time living in Tangiers and Valencia and moving back to Connecticut. He relates the story about how he met Scarlett.
Side B: Johnny and Scarlett discuss between themselves about the difference between self-observation and self-remembering and what it means.
Side A: Scarlett discusses with Johnny some of her favorite things such as her favorite dish, animal, weather, locale and winter sports. Johnny reads Scarlett some stories, using voices as he reads. (Note: Tape has some speed variation issues)
Side B: Sam and Johnny jokingly discuss creating The Lisa Vale Fan Club and have fun writing a drunken letter to her
Side A: Sam and Johnny have a phone conversation and talk about a friend they both had conversations with who is writing a book. They discuss previous and current relationships problems, past experiences and memories. The conversation eventually focuses on Sam's efforts to learn to play the piano.
Side B: A continuation of the conversation from Side A. Johnny talks about past relationships, breaking into one of his ex girlfriends apartments and getting arrested, and having remorse about messing up his last serious relationships. After his conversation is over with Sam, the recording switches to a conversation between Johnny and Scarlett on various subjects. They talk about the question of what it is to be an adult and talk it out between each other.
Side A: Johnny has a conversation about a live show that is friend on the other end of the line played. Johnny also talks about a book that he is writing and how he wrote the ending first and is writing backwards. Later on, Johnny talks to Sam about the various guns they own.
Side B: Johnny talks with an unknown woman about writing his biography and the various things he has done with it, such as writing his own death at the end. The woman also talks to Johnny about writing her biography as well. The conversation eventually turns to talk about how Johnny went around and interviewed the people that he knows for his biography so that they could write their own story for it. Johnny tells a story of a former girlfriend who was forced by her father to drop out of college and forbade her from seeing him again and how they finally met up 30 years later.
Side A: During this conversation, Sam tells Johnny about reading Great River and how the writer, Paul Horgan, has a way with writing. They also discuss continuity in life and with people and relationships. Sam talks with Johnny about moving himself to Texas. (Sound missing due to technical difficulties during digital transfer, beginning at 21:27 and ends at 22:00)
Side B: Classical Music recorded by Johnny.
Side A: Johnny talks to Sam about finally understanding Sam's love of driving. Sam tells Johnny a story about a guy he knew who taught his kid how to shoot a .22 by having the kid shoot a cigarette out of his mouth. They also talk about Charles Manson and his magnetism with women, Wang Poe and Buddhism, mind substance and Robin Williams. After the conversation with Sam, the recording picks up mid conversation between Johnny and an unknown woman.
Side B: Sam talks to Johnny about being flexible and being able to move and relocate. Sam also talks about trying to sell a horse that had bad tendons and using magnets for inflammation. During a second discussion, Sam and Johnny talk about a mutual acquaintance's trip to Spain to meet up with her ex-husband and the author Juan Rulfo.
Side A: Sam and Johnny talk about a New York Times article about Afghanistan and the Taliban. They also talk about the story of Mohammad and Islam. During their conversation, Sam tells Johnny of the Bohemian Sausage Festival and Johnny reminisces about going to a gun show after meeting up with Sam in Iowa. They also talk about the reactions of people after September 11, 2001 and what to expect in the coming days and the crusades during the middle ages. Sam also talks about writing about his father throughout his life.
Side B: This side contains music.
Side A: Johnny tells Sam a story about working outside, playing racquetball and feeling alone at the Y. Johnny elaborates on loneliness and how people surround themselves with people to not be alone. Their conversation then moves to the Bible and matters that are of a spiritual nature.
Side B: Johnny talks about feeling like a "sleazy lecher" while telling a story about his last date with a girl and how inappropriate it was. The conversations then changes to the topic of first dates and what to do on them. Johnny reads passages from the book he was writing at the time
Side A: The first parts of this recording are voice messages left for Johnny. After the messages, Sam tells a story about his son meeting a girl that he was fixated on at a restaurant. Sam talks about his family, burying his mom and growing up. Johnny talks about having reoccurring dreams about certain people in his life.
Side B: This is a continuation of side A. They talk about memories and the difference between American and British actors.
Side A: Audio quality is poor due to the quality of the tape it was recorded on. It is hard to hear what is being discussed during parts of the recording.
Side B: The audio quality is poor due to the quality of the tape. Sound fluctuates between soft and loud. It is difficult to understand what is being discussed.
Side A: This side contains an audiobook excerpt of Huckleberry Finn.
Side B: Sam's young son Jesse talks about a teacher he doesn't like and tells Sam and Johnny a story entitled "Raspberries".
Side A: Johnny discusses various points in his life when he felt he didn't realize his potential, Mary talks about family troubles and turning 50, they talk about Sam and his relationship troubles. Johnny and Mary eventually move on to talk about love. The recording switches to a conversation about Johnny and an unknown woman. The recording switches again to part of a conversation between Sam and Johnny.
Side B: This recording starts with Johnny having a conversation with an unknown woman, discussing the filming of a movie, taking a trip to Texas, anxiety, and relationship problems.
Side A: Johnny and Sam talk about Sam's book that he is finishing, going to the Kentucky Derby and getting an autograph from Eddie Arcaro. The conversation shifts to a discussion about the book Johnny is working on, watching the Pelican Brief with Scarlett and Sam's acting in it. Johnny talks about troubles with drugs, a visit from an old friend, and Sam reads a passage of his book.
Side B: This side is a continuation of the discussion on the previous side. Johnny candidly talks with an unknown man about beds. The unknown man tells a story about working at a feed and pet store. Johnny talks about certain aspects of the way he was raised, what he likes about the character of Scrooge in A Christmas Carol and why it is the book of choice amongst drug users. Johnny also talks about advice his mother gave him when he was younger.
Side A: This audiotape contains a conversation with Johnny, Sam and a friend about various and random topic such as their views on college and joining the military. They eventually bring out a guitar and write a song about an "avant-garde wacko."
Side B: This recording begins with Johnny, Sam and an unknown friend playing music on a piano, guitar and harmonica
Series V: Video Material consists of two items. The first is a VHS tape of home movies shot by Dark. The video quality is relatively poor, but the tape has been digitized and a viewing copy is available. The second item is a DVD of the documentary, Shepard and Dark, directed by Treva Wurmfeld. Access to this DVD is by special permission only.
The Robert "Bob" Compton Collection includes documents that cover the years 1955 through 2008. The collection contains 28 boxes and is 16 linear feet. There are four series within this collection: Series I – Compton Personal Papers, Series II – Correspondence, Series III – Dallas Morning News, and Series IV – Newspapers and Magazines. There are two subseries within Series III. The first of the two subseries is Pre-1976, prior to the creation of the Focus section. This includes Compton's career as a Reporter and Assistant Editor. The second subseries includes the dates 1976-1998, Compton's career as Focus and Books Editor. This is the largest of the two subseries. Much of Compton's Collection has been maintained in its original filing order to maintain the integrity of the collection. However, the contents within the folders have been organized either alphabetically or chronologically.
Series I contains Compton's personal papers. Included in this series is Compton's own recounting of his career as the Focus and Books Editor for the Dallas Morning News. Also within this series are correspondences relating to Compton's retirement.
Informal recounting of Compton's career at Dallas Morning News, listing of donation to Wittliff Collection, honors, letters of congratulations, photograph
Series II is comprised of correspondences to and from Compton and book reviewers, publishers, authors, and poets. Within this series are six subject files including: John Graves, William Humphrey, Cormac McCarthy, James Michener, William Morris, and Bryan Woolley. Of particular interest in this series are correspondences that show authors prior to their renowned success. Many of the authors were book reviewers early in their careers. Some of these authors include: Rick Bass, Gene Fowler, William Goyen, A.C. Greene, Steve Harrigan, Shelby Hearon, Elmer Kelton, Beverly Lowry, Larry McMurtry, Paul S. Malone, Jay Milner, Jan Reid, Clay Reynolds, Joyce Roach, C.W. Smith, W.K. Stratton, R.G. Vliet, Donley Watt, and Ed Weems. Compton also received correspondences from the following Texas writers: Judy Alter, Neal Barrett Jr., Sandra Brown, Mark Busby, and Celia Morris. In addition, this series illustrates the close-knit community between authors, publishers, and editors, with many of the letters referring to fellow authors and so forth.
Agrella, Catherine; Allen, C. Leonard; Alter, Judy; Anderson, Kerby; Angle, Jim; Arthur, Elizabeth; Bailey, Ronald; Baldwin, Dan; Barclay, Linda; Barrett, Neal; Barton, Frances; Bender, Eileen T.; Benedict, Elizabeth; Berk, Sally Ann; Bernstein, Dennis; Billue, Sylva; Black, Baxter; Bloom, John; Bonnell, Pamela; Boothe, Ben B.; Brans, Jo; Broch, Nathan; Bromley, Larry; Brown, Martha; Brown, Sandra; Bunkley, Anita; Burrows, M. Denise; Burson, Lynn; Busby, Mark; Includes correspondences from book reviewers, thank you notes from authors, and requests from authors
Correspondences about book reviews and folklore society
Correspondence about ABA Newswire
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), personal letters, photographs, cassette tape
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews (journalist)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about books written (author), photographs
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, poems written (poet), photograph
Correspondence about poems written (poet)
Correspondence about book reviews
Campbell, Ewing; ____, Carla; Carney, Paul; Carstarphen, Meta G.; Carter, George F.; Castleberry, Vivian; Cattarulla, K.; Chapman, John S.; Christison, Kathleen; Clem, Julie and Onnee; Cobb, William J.; Cockrell, Jane; Cogan, Neil H.; Coggins, Paul; Cohen, Barry Mendel; Cohen, Harlan P.; Conroy, Mary; Cooper, H.H.A.; Cooper, Richard A.; Cowling, Will; Crim, W.R. (Billy Bob); Currier, Jameson; Davis, Barbara Kerr; Davis, Stewart; Dodson, Michael; Doggett, DeWitt; Donovan, Jim; Dooley, Sally; Dorn, Fred J.; Douglas, Deborah; Downs, Fane; Dupree, John C.; Dumas, Lloyd (Jeff); Correspondence about book reviews, books written (authors), thank you letters, complaints about reviews, letters from publishers
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, photograph
Correspondence about books written (author), photograph
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence recommending book reviewers
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence between editors
Correspondence (journalist)
Correspondence between editors
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), photographs
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), newspaper clipping
Correspondence about writings (journalist)
Correspondence about articles written (journalist), copies of articles
Correspondence about book reviews
Compton's personal writing about Curtis, correspondence about articles written (journalist), magazine
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, articles written (journalist)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Elliott, Norbert; Elmblad, Mary; Erisman, Fred; Farmer, David; Fensch, Thomas; Ficklen, Mary; Floornoy, Craig; Foreman, Paul; Fox, H.B.; Foxworth, Sarah Payne; Frailey, Dave; Frame, Helen Dunn; Frome, Michael; George, Ronald; Gibson, George L.; Goldsborough, Dick; Grauer, Neil A.; Grigsby, Larry; Gunnell, Donna M.; H____, K.C.; Hall, M.T.; Hankins, Bailey; Haag, Marty; Harpham, Edward J.; Hazelwood, Katherine, Hershorn, Tad; Hester, Don; Holksema, Thomas; Hogle, James; Holland, Max; Holmes, Marjorie; Hong, Terry; Houck, Jim; Howell, Charlene; Hubbard, ____; Hughes, M.E.; Humphreys, Joel Don; Hunt, Caroline; Hunter, Bill; Correspondence about book reviews, books written (authors), thank you letters, complaints about reviews, requests from authors
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), photographs
Correspondence about book reviews, articles written (journalist)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, poems written (poet)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about books reviews, books written, cassette tape, photograph
Correspondence about books reviews, books written (author), articles written (journalist), six photographs, newspaper clippings
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), with his wife (Doris Roberts, Actress), five photographs, newspaper clippings
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Subject file about books written (author), six photographs, newspaper clippings
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about directory of SMU Press
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about articles written (journalist)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), photograph, newspaper clipping, information regarding Oliver Haily, Brooke Haily
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence regarding Rosalind Kress Haley Library
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), includes unfinished letter to Oliver Haley, 1959
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author), photograph
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), photograph
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written
Correspondence about books written (author), photographs
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), between editors
Correspondence about books written (author), includes information about Jennifer Wilde
Subject file about books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Isaacs, Arnold, K.; James, Caryn; January, Frank; Johnson, Tom; Johnston, Richard E.; Jun, Kathleen M.; Kafka, Paul; Katz, Todd; Kay, Mary; ____, Kelly; Kennelly, Laura B.; Kerr, J.; Kilgore, Richard B.; Klein, Gerald J.; Kotz, Nick; Kraeplin, Camille R.; Lalla, Bill; Lang, Kathryn M.; Lange, Pam; LaSalle, Peter; ____, Laura; Lauricella, Francis E.; Ledbetter, Mindi; ____, Leslie; Lincecum, Jerry B.; Lo, Steven C.; Logan, Liz; Long, Douglas K.; Long, Julian; Longfellow, David; Lynskey, Edward C.; Lynum, Curtis O.; Correspondence about Book reviews, books written (author), thank you letters, requests from authors, complaints about book reviews
Correspondence about books reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books and articles written (author and journalist), newspaper clippings Compton's notes: See Elizabeth Ann McMurray
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about books written (author), photograph
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about publishing, Don Robertson
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about news articles (journalist), personal correspondence
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about publishing
McCartney, Scott; McCombs, Holland; McFarland, Keith D.; McGrain, Linda; McQuarrie, Jack; Magnino, Lisa L.; Magerino, Susan; Maloy, Robert; Martin, Amy; Martin, Gyde; Martin, W.B.J.; Maurice, S. Charles; Middleton, David; Middleton, Mary Margaret; Milam, Michael; Milan, Karen; Milazzo, Lee; Miller, ____; Miller, Jan; Miller, Zack; Milligan, Mike; Mills, Helen L.; Mills, Hilary; Mitchell, Glenn; Moeller, Beverley; Moore, Dennis; Morris, Anne; Morris, Celia; Morthland, John; Mosley, Richard; Murchison, Bill; Murphy, Patrick; Musgrove, Stanley; Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), author requests, thank you letters, newspaper clippings
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), photograph
Subject file about books written (author) and newspaper clipping
Correspondence about poems written (poet), newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about bookstore, newspaper clippings, copies of newspaper articles (1951-1958) Compton's notes: See Wm. Weber Johnson
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), and letters of complaint regarding interviews
Correspondence about books written (author), four photographs, newspaper clipping
Correspondence about articles (journalist)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books published (publisher)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book editor of newspaper
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Subject file about books written (author)
Correspondence about poems written (poet), newspaper clippings
Correspondence about book reviews, poems written (poet)
Correspondence about book reviews
Subject file about books written, photograph
Correspondence about book reviews, articles written (journalist)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written, photograph,
Correspondence about poems written (poet)
Correspondence about book reviews, newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews, poems written (poet), photographs
Oldham, Virginia L.; Orms, Tom; Ornish, Natalie; Osborne, Burl; Patterson, Paige; Pederson, Rena; Perdue, Richard M.; Perry, Thomas A.; Peterson, Jane; Phillips, Warren H.; Pimm, Lilian C.; Pitts, Joe W.; Potts, Terry; Preston, Harry; Price, Deb; ____, Priscilla; Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), thank you notes, complaints about book reviews
Correspondence about suggested book reviewer
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), four photographs
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about poems written (poet)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), newspaper clippings
Correspondence about book reviews
Quaid, Glenn; Rapaport, Richard; Ray, Karen; Reed, Ronald; Reyes, Angel; Rice, Pamela; Rich, Mark S.; Richman, Susan; Risenhoover, C.C.; Roberts, Tim; Robertson, Robert L.; Rollo, Ned; Rosen, Dan; Rost, Stephen; Routt, Edd; Correspondence about book reviews, author requests, thank you letters, photograph
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about books written (author), copies of newspaper articles
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about publishing
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about books written (author)
Salazar, Ramiros; Sall, Larry D.; Schaefer, Frank; Schirmer, Gregory A.; Seagraves, Eleanor R.; Seale, Jan Epton; Shaffer, Richard A.; Shant, Jane; Shapard, Robert; Shattuck, Robert D.; Shepard, Martin; Sherman, Laurel G.; Shuford, Gene; Sigwald, John; Simmons, Tom J.; Simpson, Henry; Slattery, Dennis; Sloan, Ledgerwood; Snodgrass, E.H.; Snyder, Bill; Snyder, Marion S.; St. John, Bob; Stacy, Dennis; Stapleton, Tom; Stevenson, Margaret; Stott, William M.; Stuckey, Bill; Swank, Patsy; Swindle, Howard; Correspondence about book reviews, author requests, thank you letters, photograph
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author), photograph
Correspondence about books written (author), publishing books
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about newspaper (editor, journalist), newspaper clipping, Pulitzer Prize winner
Tasma, Jean Marie; Taylor, Sheila; Teague, William J.; Thompson, Lou Ann; Thompson, Thomas H.; Trickett; David G.; Turrentine, Jeff; Tynes, Teresa; Vawrinek, Jeffrey J.; Waldron, Ann; Warner, Sharon Oard; Watkins, Kay; West, Richard; Wheeler, John A.; Williams, Rittal; Wilson, Laura; Wolfe, Jane; Young, Mark W.; Yarbrough, David; Yemma, Mark; Zagst, Michael; Correspondence about book reviews, thank you letters, Author requests, photograph, copies of newspaper articles
Correspondence about bookstore
Correspondence about book reviews, newspaper clipping
Correspondence about books written (author), pencil drawing
Correspondence about poems written (poet)
Correspondence about book reviews, newspaper clipping
Correspondence about books written (author), publishing, newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), three photographs
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), newspaper clippings
Correspondence about publishing, photograph, newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), photographs, newspaper clippings
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author), newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Correspondence about book reviews
Correspondence about books written (author), photographs, newspaper clipping
Correspondence about book reviews
Subject file about articles written (journalist), newspaper clippings
Correspondence about books written (author)
Correspondence about article, State Senator
Correspondence about poems written (poet), newspaper clippings
Correspondence about book reviews, books written (author)
Series III is subdivided into two main subseries. The first comprises documents of Compton's early career prior to the creation of the Focus section of the Dallas Morning News. Of interest in this series are interview notes of Compton and gubernatorial candidate W. Lee O'Daniel; staff information regarding Jim Lehrer, a reporter for the Dallas Morning News from 1958-1960 and the inner-workings of the Dallas Morning News. In particular, this subseries contains information regarding the Civil Rights movements and the changes made in language with regard to African-Americans. It also illustrates how newspaper reporters made changes in how reporting was done when an African-American was the subject, especially regarding reporting of crimes.
The second subseries within Series III, includes the years 1976 through 1998. During this time, Compton was editor of the Focus and Books sections of the Dallas Morning News. Of interest in this series are the inner-workings of the Dallas Morning News, including the shift in updated technology and use of the computer; staff information; Pulitzer Prize winners from the Dallas Morning News, author information, and press kits of notable authors, such as Tim O'Brien, Norman Mailer, Daniel Quinn, and Donley Watt. This subseries is also worthy of attention because of the information contained about the creation of the Focus section and the years dedicated getting it approved, staffed, and the new policies that were needed for the payment of book reviewers and the status of complimentary books. In addition, this series is comprised of information regarding publishing, including correspondences to and from Compton and publishers.
This material documents Compton's news career at the Dallas Morning News prior to the creation of the Focus section of the paper. Of interest in this series are interview notes of Compton and gubernatorial candidate W. Lee O'Daniel; staff information regarding Jim Lehrer, a reporter for the Dallas Morning News from 1958-1960 and the inner-workings of the Dallas Morning News. In particular, this subseries contains information regarding the Civil Rights movements and the changes made in language with regard to African-Americans. It also illustrates how newspaper reporters made changes in how reporting was done when an African-American was the subject, especially regarding reporting of crimes.
Includes notes for stories written, including interview notes from Gubernatorial candidate W. Lee O'Daniel, Stanley Walker
Includes memos, desk assignments, news reporting ideas, inner newspaper workings, advertising, how to write racial identifications, complaints, office fun, staffing, newspaper clipping
This sub-series documents the years 1976 through 2007. During this time, Compton was editor of the Focus and Books sections of the Dallas Morning News. Of interest in this series are the inner-workings of the Dallas Morning News, including the shift in updated technology and use of the computer; staff information; Pulitzer Prize winners from the Dallas Morning News, author information, and press kits of notable authors, such as Tim O'Brien, Norman Mailer, Daniel Quinn, and Donley Watt. This subseries is also worthy of attention because of the information contained about the creation of the Focus section and the years dedicated getting it approved, staffed, and the new policies that were needed for the payment of book reviewers and the status of complimentary books. In addition, this series is comprised of information regarding publishing, including correspondences to and from Compton and publishers.
Includes memos, reporting assignments, inner newspaper workings, advertising and sales, complaints, office fun, staffing, newspaper clippings, photographs, retirements, Pulitzer Prize winners at Dallas Morning News
Includes memos, newspaper clippings
Includes memos, letters of commendation, letters of complaint (about articles), article notes, receipts, newspaper clipping
Includes memos, correspondence
Includes story ideas, letters of commendation, receipts
Includes memos, letters of commendation, court records, newspaper clippings, photographs
Includes newspaper "war" between Dallas Morning News and Dallas Times Herald, Pulitzer Prize article from Fort Worth Star-Telegram, press release regarding Dallas Morning News, articles regarding Tony Castro, remarks from Walter Cronkite (also found at Lyndon B. Johnson Library)
Includes memos, correspondences, newspaper clippings, RECAP, UT News, photographs
Includes completed articles, memos
Includes Compton's personal notes, copies of initial issues
Includes memos, correspondences, advertising, staff assignments, letters of commendation, letters of complaint, policies, story ideas, minutes from meetings, design plates for Book Pages, newspaper clippings
Includes memos, correspondences, advertising, staff assignments, letters of commendation, letters of complaint, policies, story ideas, minutes from meetings, design plates for Book Pages, newspaper clippings
Includes pen ink drawings by Bob Kolsti, Robin Tareaux
Includes "A sampling – features and book notes from Book Pages," stories written by Compton, photograph
Includes what to do with complimentary books after being reviewed, reasons for book reviewing, book sales statistics
Includes contact information for book reviewers, publishers, authors
Includes daily notes from phone calls
Includes information about race, James Michener's Texas
Includes information about including poetry on transportation (metro, buses)
Includes information about Auster, Barnes, Julian; Paul; Blout, Roy; Carver, Raymond; Crews, Harry; DeLillo, Don; Eco, Umberto; Elkin, Stanley; Gibbons, Kay; Gould, Stephen Jay; Kidder, Tracy; McInerney, Jay; McGuane, Thomas; Mailer, Norman; Mukherjec, Bharati; Price, Reynolds; Rhodes, Richard; Roth; Sheehan, Neil; Siddons, Anne River; Singer, I.B.; Stone, Robert; Woiwode, Larry; Yardley, Jonathan
Includes information, press releases, articles, and newspaper clippings about Adams, Michael; Barthelme, Donald; Bonds, Parris Afton; Bramer, Sidney; Breeder, James; Brown, Rosellen; Bryant, Dean Keith; Burke, James Lee; Carter, George; Chandra, Vikram; Condon, Richard; Cousins, Margaret; Davis, John Porterfield; Davis, Rod; DeHaloff, Henry; DeMannis, Rick; Divine, Robert; Edwards, Anne; Fairchild, Jr., H.H.; Gibson, Jewel; Griffith, Patricia, Browning; Goldbarth, Albert; Goyen, William; Greene, A.C.; Hale, Leon; Hamilton, Dagmar; Harrison, Payne; Hudgins, Andrew; Humphreys, Joel Don; Jones, Stephen Graham; Kruh, Nancy; Lea, Tom; Llwelyn, Morgan; McClellan, Tom; Maguire, Jack; Mewshaw, Michael; Morgan, D. Miller; Mullen, Harryette; Nance, Joseph Milton; Nelson, Bobby Jack; Niven, Penelope; Northcott, Kaye; Nunn, William Curtis; Oliver, Chad; Porter, Katherine Anne; Porterfield, Nolan; Powell, Padget; Quinn, Jim; Rice, Anne; Richard, Mark; Schott, Richard; Schutze, Jim; Scobie, Ingrid Winther; Solomon, Robert; Stead, Christina; Strother, Lester; Sullivan, Jim; Tippette, Giles; Turpley, Fred; Weismann, Donald; Weiss, Philip; Whitehead, Fred; Wier, Allan; Williams, Lynna; Wood, Susan; Wozencraft, Kim
Includes Fall, 1990 Sampler, press kits for Kaye Gibbons, Larry Brown, photographs
Includes press kits for Lone Star Rising Lyndon B. Johnson And His Times, 1908-1960
Includes press kit for The Uncensored, photograph
Includes Adams, Steven; Binham, Sallie; Byl, Christine; Engberg, Susan; Enger, Lin; Griesenner, John; McPhee, Jenny Drake; Machart, Bruce
Includes press kit for Joanna's Husband and David's Wife
Includes press kit for Oswald's Tale, two photographs
Includes early galleys of In the Lake of the Woods (typed), National Author Tour – The Things They Carried
Includes press kits for Ishmael and Providence, photograph
Includes press kits for Gray Victory, photograph
Includes copies of various stories (typed)
Includes Stone Drug Magazine, Oxford American (John Grisham – Publisher, photograph), People, December 9, 1991 – includes article about Molly Irvins), Texas Books in Review, Current Books, Armstrong Browning Library, The Library of America (photograph), Flair
Includes book reviews, news, industry trends, and issues that affect the African-American literary community
Includes correspondences, press releases (alphabetized), memo, photographs
Includes notes, correspondences, newspaper clippings, photocopy of Southwest Review (Spring, 1936) Item moved to backlog
Includes correspondences, book lists, prices, book store closings, press releases (alphabetized), photographs
Includes Dallas Journalism Review (1973-1974), Texas Journalism Review (1975)
Includes Dallas Observer (1980-1981), Dallas News (1971 – includes Gay Pride issue)
Includes information about upcoming books, trends, business, correspondence
Includes correspondence, The Skeptic, The Comedy Wire – humor, entertainment, book reviews, and articles about pseudo-science
Includes literary awards and press release, correspondence
Includes correspondences, press releases, newspaper articles, author information
Includes correspondences, press releases
Includes correspondences, press releases, book catalogs (book lists and pricing)
Includes correspondences, press releases, book catalogs
Includes correspondences, press releases, book catalogs
Includes correspondences, press releases, book catalogs
Includes press releases, publishers digest
Includes correspondences, press releases, fiction and poetry contest winners, photographs
Includes correspondences, book releases, book catalogs
Includes press release, funeral program, author information
Includes press releases, book catalogs, copies of newspaper articles, photographs
Includes correspondences, press releases, newspaper clippings, book jacket
Includes correspondences, press releases
Includes correspondences, press releases
Includes press releases, Publishers Digest
Includes official publication of Texas Writers Association
Includes lists of nominees, invitation to award ceremony
Includes program (1986), notes, spiral notebook
Includes program, ticket, bookmark – Friends of the Fort Worth Public Library, Inc.
Includes correspondences, program
Includes correspondences, list of charter members
Includes correspondences, program ("What Makes a City," "The Economics of Taste"), report to city council, course and lecture listings
Includes newsletters, The Compass Rose, Center for American History
Includes newsletters, invitations
Includes programs, grant announcements
Includes correspondence (see Abernethy), memos, programs
Series IV contains newspapers and magazines Compton saved from 1949 through 2001. This series contains four oversized boxes. In addition, many of the magazines and newspapers within this series are extremely fragile, and great care should be taken when handling. Of particular interest are the copies of the Dallas Morning News (1949-2001). In addition, this series contains the New York Herald Tribune (1963, 1967) that details the shift in power of the presidency to Lyndon B. Johnson after the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
Includes articles, book club selections
Includes Random House magazine
Includes Book excepts
Includes book excepts, reviews, Stone Drum, The Kenyon Review
Includes book excerpts
Includes culture, book excerpts, arts and entertainment
Includes book excerpts and descriptions
Includes book excerpts, poetry, Southern music issue
Includes articles and reviews of books
Includes articles and reviews
Includes articles, editors include Kaye Northcott and Molly Ivins
Includes Atlantic Monthly (1975), Balcones (1987), Works in Progress (1991), Four Winds (1982), Poets and Writers (1995), Reckon (1995), Smithsonian (1980), Vanity Fair (1982)
Includes typed notes from Compton, Arts and Entertainment (1984), Book Pages (1949-1976), Book Pages – Annual Christmas Book Sections (1950-1965), Focus (1983-1984), High Profile (1988-2001), Metropolitan (1986, 1988), Sunday Reader (1996, 1998, 1999), Texas and Southwest (1993, 1998)
Includes mounted pages from the pre-run newspaper
Includes newspaper article about John F. Kennedy's assassination, 25 years later
Includes Volume 1, Number 1, published in Dallas, Texas
Includes critical reviews
Includes Bright Leaf (1997), Grove Atlantic New Fiction (1995)
Very fragile, published by Harpers Magazine
A review of idea, history, culture
Very fragile, includes typed notes from Compton, and information about John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson
Very fragile, includes New York Times Book Review (1992), Westward (1985), Rolling Stone (1973), Holiday (1948)
The Lonesome Dove archive contains scripts, memos, letters, notes, production forms, set and costume sketches, set blueprints, photographs, props, costumes, videotapes, audiocassettes and a laser videodisc. The material details every aspect of the production--from the writing of the teleplay through the budgeting, casting, planning, scheduling, filming, publicity and distribution.
The archival arrangement follows the order of production and is organized into eleven series:
1. Story and Script
2. Producer's Unit
3. Production Staff
4. Casting
5. Art
6. Wardrobe
7. Production
8. Post-Production
9. Distribution
10. Publicity
11. Congratulations and Awards.
Of particular interest are the various drafts of the screenplay, the almost complete set of production records, the dailies, the set designs, the story boards, the props, the costumes, the costume research notes and Bill Wittliff's photography of the cast and filming.
The archive was donated through Bill Wittliff. Some material was sent to Wittliff for inclusion in the collection by others--producer Suzanne de Passe; storyboard artist Michael Peal; property master Eric Williams; actors Tim Scott, Glenne Headly and Anjelica Huston; production designers Cary White and John Frick; costume designer Van Broughton Ramsey; and composer Basil Poledouris. The remainder of the archive belonged to Wittliff as writer and producer.
Suzanne de Passe, president of Motown Productions, enlisted Bill Wittliff to write the screenplay for Lonesome Dove. Wittliff, a native Texan, had been writing films since 1977, beginning with the CBS-TV movie Thaddeus Rose and Eddie and including credit for The Black Stallion (1979),Honeysuckle Rose (1980), Raggedy Man (1981), Barbarosa (1982), Country (1984) and Red Headed Stranger(1986). Wittliff's experience compelled him to seek some creative control to assure his ability to protect the integrity of his script. He was made executive producer as well as screenwriter, and he shared creative control with de Passe and CBS-TV. The collection of notes, drafts, polishes and final script provides an unusually clear-cut example of how to transform a lengthy, multi-peopled, much-beloved novel into a film while still retaining the substance of the original.
The series begins with a typescript of Lonesome Dove sent by Larry McMurtry's agent Irving Paul (Swifty) Lazar to Suzanne de Passe in 1985. This is followed by Wittliff's marked hardback and paperback copies of the novel; by the notes, rough drafts, and typescripts for each of the four parts of the miniseries; and by the final shooting script with blue and pink pages reflecting revisions made just before and during shooting. The title page of the shooting script was signed by every actor who had a speaking line in the miniseries.
Executive Producers: Suzanne de Passe and Bill Wittliff
Assistant to Mr. Wittliff: Connie Todd
Co-executive Producer: Robert Halmi
Producer: Dyson Lovell
Supervising Producer: Michael Weisbarth
This series is primarily made up of correspondence among the producers. The majority of the memos are from Dyson Lovell and deal with scheduling, hiring, budget, set behavior, etc. Wittliff's files contain letters, thank yous from actors, bills and notes relating to the production. Present also is the correspondence of Wittliff's assistant Connie Todd as well as her research on period music to be used in the film.
Production Manager: Dick Gallegly
Assistant Production Manager: Adam Merims
1st Assistant Director: Robert Rooy
Key 2nd Assistant Director: Matt Bearson
Production Coordinator: Jill Lopez
Asst. Production Coordinator: Nikol Hegarty
Location Manager: John Gibson
Script Supervisor: Cynthia Upstill
Here is found the paperwork of the production manager and the script supervisor. The production manager supervises the technical staff and is responsible for the budget and technical details of the production. His memos deal with cost, censorship, location information, set problems, etc. His staff prepares the production forms--standard documents used throughout the film and television industry which detail every aspect of a production. Included here are the budget breakdown, script breakdown, production board, shooting schedules, Day-Out-of-Days, One-liner Schedules, Call Sheets and Daily Production Reports.
The Script Supervisor is responsible for continuity, i.e. assuring that the different takes are consistent with one another despite the fact that scenes are rarely shot in chronological or script sequence order. This position also serves as the link between the director and the film editor. The Continuity Script and the Cutter's Log represent the script supervisor's functions
Casting (Principals): Lynn Kressel, New York
Casting (Locals): Liz Keigley, Texas
The memos in this series relate casting requirements, options considered and actors chosen.
Production Designer: Cary White
Assistant Production Designer: John Frick
Storyboard Artist: Michael Peal
Property Master: Eric Williams
Here are found the set designs as drawn by the Production Designer Cary White and his assistant, John Frick. Cary White, a Texas-based designer, had worked with Wittliff on Red Headed Stranger (1986) and had also designed for Texas Chainsaw Massacre II (1986) and Nadine (1987). The drawings and plans for Lonesome Dove include a sketch of the town of Lonesome Dove, construction details for the Whiskey Boat, a map showing the path of the characters from Texas to Montana, a sketch of Clara's ranch and a sketch of the Montana ranch.
This series also holds the storyboard rough drawings and copies of the finished drawings for Scenes 24 to 28, "Horse Rustling;" Scenes 56 to 59, "Dust Storm and Lightning;" and Scenes 223 to 225, "Buffalo Chase and Gus's wounding." Each of these sequences requires action, a large cast of animals and/or special effects. The pictorial layout of the shots in storyboard form facilitates the logistical planning of the scenes to avoid risk, delay or unnecessary takes. Storyboard artist Michael Peal had previously drawn storyboards for Blood Simple (1982) and Save the Dog (1987). He had been a set dresser on Red Headed Stranger (1985) and a set decorator on Texas Chainsaw Massacre II (1986).
Included here too are the Property Master Eric Williams' snapshots used for continuity. These photos illustrate in great detail the mass of props employed in the miniseries--saddles, bridles, guns, bows, belts, gear, bedrolls, etc. The Polaroids were originally kept on large circular rings or tied together with leather thongs. The series also contains actual props such as Gus' muslin wrapped body, Gus' Colt Dragoon pistol, knife, and Gus' and Deets' grave markers and Po Campo's walking stick.
Costume Designer: Van Broughton Ramsey
Costume designer Ramsey had previously designed the wardrobe for Horton Foote's dramas of early 20th century Texas life, 1918 (1984), and On Valentine's Day (1986). Ramsey kept his notes, forms and drawings in two cloth zipper notebook containers. A blue container held Ramsey's sketches of costumes for the principal characters and includes notes from the novel, cloth swatches and photocopies of period photos from books and articles. A purple container held the shooting schedule, contact sheet, filming locations, purchases and sizes of the principals and extras. Four black notebooks (now removed) labeled Volume I to IV held snapshots on each character in costume, followed by a form listing every item of clothing worn in the scenes in which the character appeared. Also available in this series are costumes, hats, boots and other accessories.
This series deals with material used or generated during the filming of Lonesome Dove from March through July 1988. Glenn Headley contributed her script for the character Elmira marked with her notes. Bill Wittliff, not only a screenwriter and producer, but also an accomplished photographer, publisher and book designer, contributed many of his photographs of performers and scenes taken during the filming. A complete set of the dailies on 3/4 inch tape is also found in this series.
Editor: Corky Ehlers
Music: Basil Paledouris
This series covers the material used in the post-production phase--film editing and the addition of music and sound. It contains the post-production schedule, budget, location breakdown and cost reports. The cutting notes include the suggestions of Wittliff, the producer Dyson Lovell and the director Simon Wincer. The various cuts--the editor's rough cut, the director's cut, the producer's cuts and the final cuts--are available with permission on 3/4 inch and 1/2 inch videotape. The ADR sheets document the dialogue to be added to the film which was recorded in the studio in October 1988. The music is represented by spotting notes, memos, video recording session forms and audiotapes of the score by Basil Poledouris.
This series contains memos on distribution plans by Quintex, the company which held international distribution rights. Quintex went into bankruptcy and the court records found here provide information on foreign distribution of the miniseries.
The publicity files contain videotapes and clippings produced by CBS to promote the miniseries. In addition, there are various newspaper clippings and articles on Lonesome Dove including critical reviews and interviews with the cast.
The letters of congratulations to Wittliff found here indicate the enthusiasm with which the miniseries was greeted. There are files on the many honors received by Lonesome Dove--18 Emmy nominations which resulted in seven Emmys, the award for Best Miniseries and Best Television Program of 1989 from the National Association of Television Critics, the D. W. Griffith Award for Best Television Miniseries, the National Cowboy Hall of Fame Wrangle Award for the Best Western Television Feature in 1989, the Golden Globe Award for best Television Miniseries and Best Actor in a Miniseries, the Peabody Award and the Writers Guild of America award to Bill Wittliff for the teleplay.
The Jerry Retzloff Collection spans 1973-2012 and documents Texas music, Lone Star Beer, and Willie Nelson. The collection is arranged in nine series: Personal Papers, Lone Star Beer, Photographs, Willie Nelson, Memorabilia, Oversized Materials, Newspapers and Magazines, Clothing, and Posters.
Personal Papers include resumes, letters, notes, and ephemera.
Lone Star Beer records document the history of the San Antonio brewery through printed material, memos, photographs, publications, and advertisements – many of which feature Texas musicians.
The 1976 program has many signatures including Charley Pride, Bobbie Nelson, Jody Payne, Roy Clark, Freddy Fender, and Waylon Jennings.
Photographs are arranged by subject, featuring Retzloff with various performers, Willie Nelson, and other musicians performing and off-stage. Oversized photographs are in boxes 9 and 12.
Willie Nelson includes souvenirs, programs, and published books, documenting his music career, association with Lone Star Beer, and friendship with Jerry Retzloff.
Memorabilia includes a wide array of music ephemera including ticket stubs, backstage passes, badves, bumper stickers, pins and buttons, belt buckles, matchbooks, guitar picks, audio cassettes, and more.
The Oversized Materials series contains larger format photographs, Lone Star Beer articles and advertisements, posters (including several for Willie Nelson concerts), album covers, and a scrapbook.
Newspapers and magazines are divided between those relating to Willie Nelson, and other music publications.
The bulk of this series is a variety of artist t-shirts. Also included are a number of hats.
Music posters, plus a signed political sign for Kinky Friedman.
The papers of filmmaker and writer Severo Perez span 1972-2010 and document his career in film and television, and as a writer. The collection is arranged into six series: 1) Film; 2) Television; 3) Plays; 4) Books; 5) The National Endowment for the Humanities; and 6) Audio and Video Materials.
The collection of coach and poet, Aubra Nooncaster, spans 1938-1992; however, the bulk of the collection dates from 1980-1990. It is arranged into four series: Correspondence, Writings about Coach Nooncaster, Writings by Nooncaster, and Larry L. King. The correspondence to Nooncaster (excluding Larry L. King's letters) have been sorted alphabetically. Some letters have the original envelopes with them. Much of the correspondence references Larry L. King's article in Parade titled, "A Coach I Can't Forget" about King's time in Coach Nooncaster's class.
Published articles and reviews concerning Coach Nooncaster are in their own series. Nooncaster has published four works: Listen for a Poem, Selected Poems: 1959-1988, Amid the Glow of Suns, and Interim Days: A Book of Poems, and the collection contains many of drafts of his poetry.
The final series contains papers relating to Larry L. King, including correspondence and articles. The letters from King are arranged chronologically from 1974-1992. A few letters from Nooncaster to King have been sorted into their own folder. In addition to correspondence, the collection includes articles written by King and writings about King. The writings about King mostly concern The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas as well as his two plays "The Night Hank Williams Died" and "The Kingfisher." And finally, this series includes two photographs of King, possibly from 1971. One depicts King in front of a dilapidated house, and the second is of King with an unidentified man and children.
The correspondence to Nooncaster (excluding Larry L. King's letters) have been sorted alphabetically. Some letters have the original envelopes with them. Much of the correspondence references Larry L. King's article in Parade titled, "A Coach I Can't Forget" about Mr. King's time in Coach Nooncaster's class.
Some of the individuals who wrote multiple letters are: Evelyn (Wemple) Allen, Bob Allford, Allen Bobroff, Eula Burkes, and Barbara Hodges
Includes two photos from Nolan and Billie Jones, and one photo from Mildred Wilson.
Some of the individuals who wrote multiple letters are Larry Jarritt, Don Laughlin, Stephen Oates, Helen Payne, and Margaret Howell Tayloe
Published articles and reviews concerning Coach Nooncaster are in their own series. Nooncaster has published four works: Listen for a Poem, Selected Poems: 1959-1988, Amid the Glow of Suns, and Interim Days: A Book of Poems, and the collection contains many of drafts of his poetry.
Newspaper clipping
Speech about Nooncaster as teacher
Interview by son John Nooncaster about Great Depression and New Deal
Book review of Interim Days
Parade July 17, 1983 article, "A Coach I Can't Forget" by Larry L. King
Article, "Best Little Whorehouse in Texas author, Larry King, visits an old Pampa buddy" by Julia Clark (3 copies)
Article, "Players Reflect on Coaches" by Carlton Stowers
Nooncaster has published four works: Listen for a Poem, Selected Poems: 1959-1988, Amid the Glow of Suns, and Interim Days: A Book of Poems, and the collection contains many of drafts of his poetry.
"About a Couple of Birds Making a Nest"
"Barrier"
"Cathedral Peak"
"A Dialogue"
"Early Rancher"
"ECC. 1"
"A Glass Darkly" (2 drafts)
"God's Way"
"The Inchoate"
"In Heaven" (2 copies)
"Laying By"
"Love in Whitman's Poetry" (term theme)
"Love's Dimensions"
"Love's Scope"
"Nassau Bound" (2 copies)
"New Year 1978"
"Perhaps"
"Recapture"
"Replanting"
"Reunion"
"The Revival of Uncle Buck" (2 drafts)
"Rivers" (with "To Any Librarian") (2 copies)
"Rivers"
"To Any Librarian"
"Ten Days of April" (Sheet music)
"The Trailway Tales"
"Two Men of Ur"
"What Fortune" (with "New Age" and "Same Wine, Same Bottle")
"When I am Dead" (with "Old Men" and "Rapprochement")
"A Work"
Athletic Journal April 1960:"The Double Wing T versus the 5-4-2"
Athletic Journal May 1960: "The Double Wing T versus the Tight Tackle Six" (2 copies)
The Crossroads Anthology: Grand Prize poem "June Blow-out"
Scholastic Coach May 1960: "Offensive Trends in Texas H.S. Football"
The final series contains papers relating to Larry L. King, including correspondence and articles. The letters from King are arranged chronologically from 1974-1992. A few letters from Nooncaster to King have been sorted into their own folder. In addition to correspondence, the collection includes articles written by King and writings about King. The writings about King mostly concern The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas as well as his two plays "The Night Hank Williams Died" and "The Kingfisher." And finally, this series includes two photographs of King, possibly from 1971. One depicts King in front of a dilapidated house, and the second is of King with an unidentified man and children.
The Wick Fowler papers span 1944-1991 (bulk dates: 1944-1945, 1965-1978) and document Fowler's journalism work as well as the Chili Appreciation Society International and Fowler's 2-Alarm Chili product. The collection is arranged in 7 series: Biographical Information, Writings, Chili, Correspondence, Audio Recordings, General Newspapers, and Printed Material.
The largest series, Chili, documents the chili cook-off in Terlingua, the Chili Appreciation Society International, and Wick Fowler's 2-Alarm Chili product, and contains articles and clippings, a scrapbook, promotional materials, photographic materials, and artifacts. Note that the while the scrapbook largely contains Chili-related clippings, awards, posters, advertisements, and a draft by Fowler, it also contains articles by Fowler on World War II, the Vietnam War, crime, and boating.
The second series, Writings, documents Fowler's career as a journalist. Subseries are World War II, Vietnam War, Humor, John Connally Assassination Attempt, Crime and Safety, and Boating. Each subseries contains clippings and columns by Fowler, including his "Vietnam Diary," a special insert for the Dallas Morning News on February 27, 1966. Other items of note include articles on journalist Ernie Pyle, clippings documenting Fowler's trip to Vietnam with Texas businessman H. Ross Perot, photographs of daily life in Vietnam and published photographs by Fowler. Also of note are two folders of notecards containing jokes, one-liners, and subject matter for speaking engagements.
The Correspondence series is also divided into periods, which are World War II, Vietnam, Chili, and family condolences. An exception to this is the Letters to Fowler, found in Writings-World War II, which includes hand-written and typed notes from various colleagues.
Many materials have been placed in oversized boxes. Researchers should note the box number on the container list as they are not always consecutive.
Contains obituaries, newspaper articles on Fowler, and photographic materials.
Dallas Morning News-WFAA-KGKO Employees Roundtable
4 5x7 b+w prints, 8 8x10 b+w prints, 6
4x5 b+w prints, negatives, digital photographs-printouts available for access)
The second series, Writings, documents Fowler's career as a journalist. Subseries are World War II, Vietnam War, Humor, John Connally Assassination Attempt, Crime and Safety, and Boating. Each subseries contains clippings and columns by Fowler, including his "Vietnam Diary," a special insert for the Dallas Morning News on February 27, 1966. Other items of note include articles on journalist Ernie Pyle, clippings documenting Fowler's trip to Vietnam with Texas businessman H. Ross Perot, photographs of daily life in Vietnam and published photographs by Fowler. Also of note are two folders of notecards containing jokes, one-liners, and subject matter for speaking engagements.
Cartoons, military documents, war correspondents meeting documents
Scenes of daily life, airplane; 17 3½ x 2 ½ b+w prints, 2 5x7 b+w prints
Austin American-Statesman insert
Speech, clippings, documents, political ad.
The largest series, Chili, documents the chili cook-off in Terlingua, the Chili Appreciation Society International, and Wick Fowler's 2-Alarm Chili product, and contains articles and clippings, a scrapbook, promotional materials, photographic materials, and artifacts. Note that the while the scrapbook largely contains Chili-related clippings, awards, posters, advertisements, and a draft by Fowler, it also contains articles by Fowler on World War II, the Vietnam War, crime, and boating.
Includes chili clippings, award, posters, advertisements, draft by Fowler; and Fowler articles on World War II, Vietnam War, crime, boating.
(93) 3.5x3.5 prints
Press release, proclamation, speech
Business cards, cooking guide, label, letterhead
Includes memory of Fowler, page 22
The Correspondence series is divided into periods, which are World War II, Vietnam, Chili, and family condolences. An exception to this is the Letters to Fowler, found in Writings-World War II, which includes hand-written and typed notes from various colleagues.
¼ inch reel-to-reel tapes
Various clippings and newspapers collected by Fowler.
The Tamara Saviano Collection of Guy and Susanna Clark spans the life and careers of both Guy and Susanna Clark with the main focus being on Guy. The collection comprises of Saviano's research for her biography, Without Getting Killed or Caught; interviews, family histories, magazine articles, and donated materials from Guy and Susanna Clark. The organization of the collection is both organic and artificial as the research is left in the order given by Tamara Saviano whereas the personal materials are separated into Guy and Susanna Clark, respectively. The collection is organized into these four series: Tamara Saviano's Research, Guy Clark, Susanna Clark, and Audio/Visual Materials.
This series documents Saviano's extensive research for her biography of Guy Clark, Without Getting Killed or Caught. It contains five subseries: Interviews/Interview Questions, Research Files, Photographs, Magazines, and Correspondence
This series is broken down into three subseries: Correspondence, Personal Materials, and Photographs.
This series is composed of five subseries: Correspondence, Personal Materials, Photographs, Artwork, and Awards.
This series consists of five subseries: 45rpm Records, Cassette Tapes, Compact Discs, VHS Tapes, and U-Matic Master Tapes.
Forty-eight document boxes and seven oversized boxes containing drafts, diaries and notebooks, photographic material, correspondence, and published material document the working life of poet, writer, and educator Naomi Shihab Nye (1952-). The collection has been arranged into seven series: Series I: Personal and Biographical; Series II: Works; Series III: Correspondence; Series IV: Instruction; Series V: Appearances and Awards; Series VI: Writings on Nye; and Series VII: Works by Others. Multiple drafts of published and unpublished songs, poems, short stories, and essays document Nye's creative work from an early age through high school, college, and adulthood. While her own books are not as well documented, Nye's work as editor of several poetry collections is well-documented. Of note is correspondence with long-time editor Virginia Duncan, which documents their working relationship as well as several projects. Also of note is Shihab Nye's teaching work, documented via poems written by children, clippings, and reports.
Personal and Biographical materials contain legal, family, and biographical materials, and photographic materials. Legal documents include contracts and copyright papers for very early works and songs, library card, vaccinations and passport. Biographical material includes multiple vitas, online biographies and publication lists, and school and family documents. Of note is a college reunion questionnaire and a Guggenheim application with reference letter from Charles Busch. Photographs many headshots and portraits, including some by photographer and husband Michael Nye. Certain events are well documented in photographs, including gatherings of family and friends, and work-related events.
Multiple vitas, correspondence from The Academy of American Poets and Guggenheim, published reviews, "Charles Busch's legendary wild Guggenheim reference."
33 color and b&w photographs of various sizes, including 8x10, contact sheet with son as a toddler, driver's license, and university ID
Includes photos of Aziz Nye, older photographs of ancestors, "Sitti Khadra, my Palestinian grandma about 96 years old-photo by Michael Nye," and "Park Slope, Brooklyn, NY 1970, Rochelle Cohen, Béla the Cat, Baba Nazz."
(21) color and b&w photographs of various sizes.
Includes prose poem by Nye.
(2) 4x6 color photographs, one with Nye.
By William Stafford, include Ken Kesey, William Goyen, John Phillip Santos, Naomi Shihab Nye, and others.
Dinner, introduction by Sam Hazo, reading and signing.
Still images of the American Task Force on Palestine Gala, 2010. ATFP Award for Excellence in the Arts.
Series of (5) 8 x 10 color photographs by Malcolm Greenway.
Photos from American School of Doha in Doha, Qatar.
Includes instruction, singing with guitar, and readings.
The largest series by far is Works. Subseries include Diaries, Notebooks, Appointment Books, Artwork, Early Work, Music, Poems, Monographs-Poetry, Monographs-Edited Poetry, Monographs-Prose, Editor Correspondence, Short Stories, Essays, Publications, Artbooks, Broadsides, and Talks.
Diaries and Notebooks are arranged chronologically and include diary entries starting at age eight, and ideas and drafts for poems and longer writings. Individual works are noted where possible. Artwork and Early Work document a small amount of grade school, high school, and college creative work. Music contains many songs arranged alphabetically by title; some songs include chords, notes, and corrections, and there is some overlap in titles with Poems.
Poems make up the bulk of this series, with 7 ½ boxes of poems, including unpublished works and early writings from Nye's travels in Central and South America in the 1970s. Poems are arranged alphabetically by title, and vary from single drafts of unmarked poems, to multiple drafts with annotations and corrections. There is overlap in titles with Music, Monographs, and Publications.
Monographs-Poetry, Monographs-Edited Poetry, and Monographs-Prose contain materials related to published books for children and adults, arranged by publication date. Contents vary widely by title from one letter or review, to multiple drafts and correspondence.
Editor Correspondence contains letters and faxes between Nye and longtime editor Virginia Duncan and documents their relationship as well as the creation and production of various monographs. This correspondence is placed within the Works series because it often contains full drafts or items that relate to more than one work. As there is overlap with Monographs, researchers are encouraged to review both subseries when investigating a particular work. Some correspondence between Duncan and others, in reference to Nye's works, is also included.
Stories, Essays, Publications, Art Books, Broadsides, and Talks complete the Works Series. Short Stories and Essays are arranged alphabetically by title. Materials vary from single draft to multiple drafts with annotations and comments. Publications, Art Books, and Broadsides are arranged chronologically and include poems published in journals, and special/limited run publications. Talks are often are not labeled or dated, and they are generally notes for speeches.
Daily diary, ages 10 and 11. Small white plastic child's diary.
Daily diary, ages 15 and 16. Includes 6 small black and white snapshots of Nye and friends. Small green "One year diary."
Near-daily writings on camping trip with friends. Includes sketch of camp and a self-portrait in ballpoint pen. 17 pages. Brown cover.
Early poems, ideas, and notes for poems, quotes and transcribed poems of others, notes for college schoolwork. 93 pages.
Many transcribed poems of others. Includes poems by Nye "For Adlai," and "For my Overalls." 67 pages.
Poems and prose writings. About 100 pages. "Son of Big Chief" writing tablet.
Drafts and annotated poems. Includes "Texas series," and prose poem. 19 pages.
Oversized journal from trip to Canada. Includes laid in watercolor, various sketches, diary entries and notes, and laid- in correspondence to family. Two color snapshots of Nye and others.
Annotated poems, "The Little Things Which Keep us Alive," "The Violin Teacher," "Lunch With the Cousins," "The Surgeon," "Bad Days," "She Sits in the Living Room," "Four Late Songs," "The World's Largest Pecan," "Kansas," "What the Indian is Looking At," "Man with a Clarinet," "Girl on the Rock, Galveston, Texas," "Roller-skating in 1976," "For Thomas Wolfe, If He'll Take It," "My Father and the Fig Tree," "Days Like This," "How Arabs Have Babies," "The Worst Agony is You Driving Away," notes for songs and chords, and a hand-written resume. 67 pages.
Several diary entries, notes, and poems. 71 pages.
Diary entries, "poem notes," and draft of poem "At the Jungle." Laid in travel itinerary, and research. 53 pages.
Writing prompts and descriptions, poem draft "My Body is a Mystery." 42 pages.
Includes "Hurricane," "San Antonio," "The Roof Song," "Falcons," "Old Songs," "Blues," "Song for Dick Poteet," "Stetson Song," "Wandering," "Uncle Frank Song," "The Kingsville Auction," "The New Song," "One Dime," and many other drafts, notes, and chords. About 44 pages.
Poetry drafts, sketches, "Sweet Home Saga," stories about driving across Texas, poem "Afternoon in Kerrville, Texas." 30 pages.
Poems, notes to self. Includes original annotated draft of poem "Kindness," also "A Survey of Bread in Popayan Colombia," "One Thing Beside Another Does Not Shine," "The Stolen Camera," "A Letter Home," "Neruda," notes for poems, "It Is What It Is." 31 pages.
Journal kept during Nye's honeymoon in South America. Mostly diary entries, some poem ideas and drafts. Includes laid-in correspondence from Aziz Shihab. 106 pages.
Poems and drafts. 10 pages. Includes draft of "Different Ways to Pray," "Still Waiting on a Dull Moment," and notes on instruction.
"Traveling Journal-California July 4-6, 1980 - Additional Na Bolom notes 1985." Notes for story "Pablo," poem draft "Gabriel," draft story "Camel Like Only Camel," extensive notes labeled "Peter Mattheissen, Trinity, Feb. 23 '98," and some notes labeled "Coleman Barks UTSA, Feb, 1998." 23 pages.
Journal entries, "Notes for 'Maestro,'" laid in poem draft "Black Beans." 53 pages.
Journal entries and class notes, transcribed poems, poem drafts, "Gabriel," "After the Party," "Promise," "Invisible," "Night Blooming Cereus," "Taking Care of What We Love," and others. Notes for talk "Arizona." 29 pages.
Diary entries for Nepal, Cairo, and Palestine, including family visits, and Delhi, India; sketch, notes on camels, "memorable characters." Poem drafts "San Cristobal," "Camel Like Only Camel," and prose "Mister Potato," and list of "homes enroute." 71 pages.
Diary entries, poem drafts "Blue Bucket," notes on Pat Mora's reading in San Antonio. 76 pages.
Notes, recipe, journal entries in Maine, poem draft "A Definite Shore," "The Endless Indian Nights," "Tea Seller, Rajasthan," "Winter in Your Part of the World," "At Mother Theresa's," "Eureka Springs, Arkansas," "Arizona," "Corsicana," "Call Me Ben," journal entries in Texas, "Thunder," Cuernavaca, Mexico, "Frida Kahlo's House," Philadelphia Arts Alliance, Denver, and others. 60 pages.
Journal entries from San Cristóbal, poem drafts "Mercado," "Blue Island of Old Friends," "The Hidden Heart of Mexico," journal entry after father's surgery, "From Bangalore," "The Length of Red Tape," "Merwin's Wall," "Beyond the Kitchen Window," journal entries on traveling, " Aziz Meets a Bear Near Cloudcroft, New Mexico," "Where Nye, Oregon Isn't Anymore." 76 pages.
Journal entries New York City, poem drafts throughout, laid-in poems by others, Kim Stafford workshop notes from Our Lady of the Lake, sketched map of Nye's neighborhood, "Arts Magnet" notes, El Paso Community College workshop and elementary school workshop notes, About 120 pages.
Laid in annotated poetry writing workshop outline; journal entries from Hawai'i; Bonassi poem "One Hammer;" Madison Nye poem "Healed;" many annotated poem drafts; "The Burning House," "Violin," "School bell," and "Faces Under Occupation. About 120 pages.
Annotated poem drafts. Sections titled "Thanksgiving at [W.S.] Merwin's," "Cairo," "Jordan," "Essay/letters to Alix," Rochester, Scranton PA, "Notes for Piece for Anton." Journal entries from Jerusalem. About 70 pages.
First notes and lines of "Maintenance," annotated poem drafts, notes for reading and workshop. About 100 pages.
Labeled "1993 Notebook." Annotated poems, journal entries. About 50 pages.
Notes for readings, journal entries in Jerusalem, annotated poems. About 100 pages.
Poems, notes, notes on other's readings. About 30 pages.
Notes for poems. 4 pages.
Notes in Scotland, Maryland, "Florrie notes," "The Gift of West Texas," notes, poems, children's drawings and games, 19 pages. Small bound notebook 'The San Miguel Poetry Week.'
Notes, poems, notes for readings including "Why do we need poetry more than ever?" 13 pages.
Poem drafts, including "Peace Talks," "My Geography," "Three Mule Deer."
Notes for reading "Life Lines," poem "To Dad," notes on event at Incarnate Word Chapel. 17 pages.
Story about Tommy Lee Jones; journal entries in Muscat, Oman, visit to mother's house, Utah, notes on Seymour Hersh on George W. Bush, poem pieces, several "For Daddy" poems. 68 pages.
Journal entries in Pennsylvania, New York, notes from Larry Wright event. 31 pages.
Notes, poems and fragments, sketches, journal entries. 32 pages.
Travel notes and dates, addresses, poems "Montreal," "Good Morning I am an American Shut Up," "Enough for a Pie," "Our Daily Conversations," notes and "Moments," "While I was in Canada," small sketches. 60 pages.
Notes on travel plans and events, addresses, one poem "Song for Christmas." 25 pages.
Oversized. Class exercises, assignments and ideas, notes related to her poems, examples, list of songs for class use. 26 pages.
Poem drafts
Drafts "Golf Tee is Not Me," and "To the IRS," notes.
Poetry Workshop, "Aleppo," vita/bio notes, notes.
Robert E. Lee high school work.
Trinity University course.
Illustrated handmade book of poetry, Central School, Ferguson, Missouri. 21 pages.
Poetry and short stories. 12 pages.
Includes published poems, "Jerusalem" and "Translucence."
Poetry, short stories, play, assignments. Includes drafts of later works. [2 folders]
Includes class notes and poems.
15 pages including 3 handwritten drafts and 1 publication.
19 pages; 4 drafts, typed and handwritten.
Handwritten notebook.
5 pieces, typed and handwritten.
100 handwritten and typed pages.
154 handwritten and typed pages.
Screenplay draft, 16 handwritten pages. Draft, 7 typed pages.
Rutabaga-Roo: I've Got a Song and It's for You, 1979. Long-playing record., Rutabaga-Roo, circa 1979. Promotional poster and 45 rpm record sleeve. Lullaby Raft, 1981. Long-playing record.
Audiocassette containing Rutabaga-Roo and Lullaby Raft. Audiocassette of Lullaby Raft.
"The Albany Song," "Aleppo Song," "Amigo of the City - Henry B. [Henry Barrientos]," "And I Don't Know if It's Possible," "And if I came to See you Now," "The Ants Dance," "Anyway," "April's Creed," "The Ballad of Empty Hook," "Balloon," "Behind the Blind," "Believer From a Long Way Back," "Beloved, I listen hard through all the quiet days," "Beloved, we've traveled far through all the distant days," "Blue," "Board of Trustees," "The Breaking of Blue," "Bridge cross the river," "Bridge over the Harbor."
"Can't Complain," "Chicken Song," "Christmas Song," "The Circus Song," "Comanche means enemy," "Come and Go," "The Contradictions Song," "The Corpus Christi Song," "Dandelion Blower Blues (and Whites)," "Days Like This," "The Different One," "Don't Worry About Alonzo," "Doors, Doors," "Doubt Song," "Dubby's Song."
"Everybody's Got These Folks," "Everything High," "First- Class Party," "Flames on the hillside," "Florida," "For a long time I have loved the sea," "For the Gulls all Up and Down," "The Friend Song," "Gonna get me a husband," "Goodbye Song," "Grocery Store Raga," "The Hat Song," "Henry's Song - For H.D. Thoreau," "Heroes in the Dime Store," "Hey Mama," "Hit the Road," "Hondo's Lament," "How Was I to Know," "Hurricane."
"I Can Be a Loner Pretty Well," "I found you on the outskirts of the country in my soul," "I Got Wheels," "I saw the sun," "I Was Blue," "I was born on the prairie," "I was cashing a check," "If I cannot love you now," "If I Sang," "It's a desert," "Just Like a Recurring Dream."
"Kerry's Song," "Kingsville Auction Song," "Lady sang a song," "Lately I've had questions," "Little Blanco River," "Lonesome Weaver," "The Losing Song," "Lost in Austin," "Lover of the Light," "Lullaby Raft."
"Meditation," "More Like Me," "Mostly now my dreams have been serene," "My body is a mystery," "My closet is a little place," "My Heart is Torn Like a Chicken Bone in Two," "My Song," "New Year Song," "Nice," "No Inclinations," "Nobody Home," "Nobody Thinks of Dying in the Middle of the Day."
"Old Lost Song," "Old - New," "Old Songs," "On the Brink," "Only You," "Pat & Julie's Song."
"Questions," "Ragamuffin Blue Blues Crying Song," The river is deeper than the puddle in the street," "Rosie took a ship across the sea," "The Rutabaga Song."
"San Antonio Song," "San Antonio--The City of Hearts," "Second in a New Chapter of Thousands," "Seeds," "Shoes Blues," "Solitary Man," "Somewhere in the Greens," "Song for All Those People Who Have a Be Here Now Book Covered with Dust on a Shelf," "Song for Dick Poteet," "Song for John Walters," "Song for Max," "Song for Townes [Van Zandt]," "Sunday morning very bright I read your book," "Sweet Creek."
"Tell me," "Ten Bears," "The Texas Torch," "There are highways stretching endlessly," "There is a small house that hides in the hills," "Those Eyes," "To all the teachers I was mean to," "Two Days Now," "The Unbroken Circle They Sing About," "Uncle Frank's Song."
"Walkin with you on a Sunday," "Walking Out," "Watching You When You're Not Looking," "The Way It Is, The Way It Used to Be," "We Are the Ones," "We will gather all the pieces," "Well the sun is surely sinkin down," "Wheels," "When All is Said and Done, He Is," "When I see your face," "When I Wake up in the Morning," "When I was Born," "When I was Lost," "When You're Not Looking," "Willow willow will ya be my friend?," "Wishes."
"You are a Quiet Song," "You are Someone," "You Came Through," "You can call this what you like," "Your words are slippery."
Final drafts of "The Albany Song," "Behind the Blind," "John's Song," "You are a Quiet Song," "Corpus Christi Song," "Henry's Song," "The Circus Song," "Rosie," "Just Like a Recurring Dream," "Banjo Man," "When I Wake in the Morning."
Notes, Fragments, Setlists and performance notes, Contract and promotion, Songs by others.
"Abandoned Post Office, Big Bend, Texas," "Above the Weather," "Acrostic," "Acupuncture," "The Address Book of a Lonely Man," "Adios," "After Being Recognized at the Museum," "After Everything," "After Him Everything Changed," "After School," "Air," "The Air Inside Each Car," "Aleppo," "Alice," "All day long a poem has been coming and here it is," "All Our Early Words," "All We Will Not Know – for Adriana Corral," "Allah Sees You Whip the Dog," "Alma Mater," "Alphabet," "Am I your horizon," "Amir & Anna," "And Here We Are," "And What About Two Seagulls Flying Parallel," "Anger," "Another Summer," "Answering Your Letter," "Any Number," "Anything Can Happen - And It Does," "Appetite," "Arabic Room," "The Archaeologist Eating Breakfast," "Archive," "Arizona," "Arizona - for James and Nancy," "The Arlyne Theater Has Been Torn Down, Longview, Texas," "The Art of Disappearing," "An Assigned Poem on the Devil or Why High School Students Often Hate Poetry," "At Last, A Smile," "At Last, For Becky," "At the Fair in Chimaltenango," "At the Jungle," "At the McKenzie River," "At the Pacific," "Atlanta," "Audience," "Aurora Borealis."
"Baby," "Baby," "Bad Moon," "Back in the City of My Birth (St. Louis, March 22, 1973)," "Bangalore," "Because of poems," "Bed," "The Bells, Longview, Texas 4:30 p.m. Sept. 18, 1974," "Beyond All This," "Beyond This World There Are Twenty Other Worlds," "Bingo!," "Bir Zeit, Palestine," "Birthday - for Jack Kerouac," "Birthday," "The Blanco Cafe Burning," "Blanket of bygones is too heavy for this season," "Blessings on our Early Minds," "Blood," "Blood on All Your Shirts," "The Body in the Street," "Books We Haven't Touched in Years," "Borrowed Vehicles," "The Boy Instructs His Mother," "The Boy Removes All Traces of Childhood from His Room," "A boy stands with his hands in his pockets," "The Brick," "Brief Comment About 'Marie'," "The Burglar's Hand," "Burlington, Vermont," "Burning," "The Burning House," "Burning the Old Year."
"California Time, Texas Time," "Calling You or Borders," "Canoeing with Alligators," "The Car Wash," "Cat," "Catalogue Army," "Cello," "Changed," "Changing My Name," "Chiapas," "Chula," "Clarence," "Clean Slate," "Clearing the Look of Worry Off My Face," "The Closest to a Love Poem I'm Ever Going to Get (I Bet)," "Coming Home to Myself," "Coming to See the Marfa Lights, Marfa, Texas," "Coming Up for Air - to M.B.," "Companions," "Compass," "Concrete," "Consider his own tall house– For Ryushin Paul Haller," "Conversation on Ironing," "Conversations to be Packed for Travel," "Correspondence," "Courage," "Cowboys and Librarians," "Cross that Line," "Cursive."
"Dallas Suburban," "Dark," "Darling," "The Day," "The Day of Randy's Funeral," "Days We Are Mad with One Another," "Dead Bees," "The Death of a Cat," "Debris," "Delivering Poems Books to the Housing Projects, Victoria Courts, San Antonio," "Desert David's Song," "The Deserted Yard," "Different Ways to Pray," "Dinner Party," "The Dirtiest 4-Letter Word," "Disappointment," "Disarmed," "Donuts," "A Door," "Door to Door," "The Dream Bakery Poems," "Dressing like an Indian," "Drive Friendly," "Driving North from Kingsville, Texas," "Dropping a Line," "Dying."
"Easy Terms," "Eating in Berkeley," "The Edge of a Country," "8 Oh Clock," "The Endless Indian Nights," "Enough," "Envy," "Escape," "The Essential Month of July," "Estate Sale: The Scrabble Game of a Dead Woman," "The Esteemed Writer Never Reads Poetry (after hearing Philip Roth)," "Even the Crackers," "The evening sky was as purple as a newly squashed grape," "Every Cat Had a Story," "Every War Looks Good on Paper Until You Meet the Enemy."
"Faces," "Faces Coming Out of Carnegie Hall," "Fair forlorn," "Fairbanks, Alaska," "Family Love," "Far away up north my grandpa is dying," "Farewell to a Robin," "February," "February," "La Feria," "Fifty Years," "The First Poem I Ever Wrote," "First Things Last," "The First Time I Was Old," "Fixing a Russian Watch," "Flow," "Fluency - for Anthony Villarreal," "Foot in the Village," "For Aziz, Who Loved Jerusalem," "For Bob Bonazzi Who Says the Literal World Is in Order," "For Carmon Who Told Me Tonight I Beat Around the Bush," "For David, in Canada," "For days now there has been no wind," "For Dubby Who Said, 'What I Would Like to Know Is, How Can Everybody Be Gone When There Was Never Anybody Here?'," "For J.W. Who Never Used His Real Name," "For Lost and Found Brothers," "For Luke, Leaving Us," "For Grandma Marie, Who Has Been Mostly Forgotten," "For Nancy who said, 'Maybe you need some time to catch up on your writing.,'" "For Nelle, Years Later (Los Chupaderos Ranch)," "For Mohammed on the Mountain," "For Mrs. Lane of Second Grade," "For My Father Who Always Thinks I Have Been Somewhere I Haven't," "For My Parents Leaving the Country," "For Our Father's Lost Businesses," "For Palestine and for Israel," "For Robert at Halloween," "For Somebody Who Has Trouble Being in a Body," "For Susan," "For the First Time He Says…."
"For the Gulls All Up and Down," "For the Man at the Counter in the Steak and Egg Restaurant, 19th Street, Austin, Texas, 16 March 1975, 10:30 p.m.," "For the Parents of Dror and Hassan / A Young Jew & Young Egyptian / Killed in Action," "For the Poets of Dhaka," "For years the vine grew steadily," "4-Way Traffic," "Four Poems of the Pink Swing," "Free," "French Movies," "A Friend Dies in Houston," "The Friend Who Let Me Go," "A Friend's Welcome," "Friendly Postal Clerk, Saturday Morning," "The Frogs Did Not Forget," "From the Air," "From Here to There," "From Labrador, 1800's," "From Texas," "Fundamentalism," "Future."
"Gabriel Street," "The Gardener," "Gate 4-A," "Gather Together," "Genoveva," "The Getting Together," "Gifts," "The Girl at the Swimming Pool," "The Girl Who Did Not Treasure Words," "Glaciers," "A Glad Poem or Lots of Times No Whys Is Wise," "God's Body, Not My Body," "Going for Peaches, Fredericksburg, 1981," "Going On," "Good Morning[SK1]," "Goodby," "Goodby," "Grandfather's Heaven," "Grandpa's Coat," "The Grapefruit," "Grateful," "The Great Photographer Has His Picture Taken," "Gripping Avocados to Stay Sane," "Growing," and "Growing up in Missouri," "Guide."
"The Hair," "Hairdo," "Half a Thousand Miles with You," "Hands Touching Each Other," "hang-ups have many drawbacks," "Harvey Street," "Have You Ever Had a Little Rocking Chair in Your Heart - for Kerry Crouch," "Having Been Lonesome for the Last Six Days," "He Has a New Plan," "The Head That Follows My Mother," "Hearts," "Heirs," "Hello," "Hello, Palestine," "Her Papers, After Her Death," "Here is what I know, it is not much," "High Hopes," "History of Getting Older," "Home," "Home Again," "Hospitality," "How?," "How and Why the Heart Cries b& For What Reason," "How do I know when a poem is finished?," "How It Is," "How Long Peace Takes," "How Palestinians Keep Warm," "How Things Connect," "How to Get to My House," "How to Paint a Donkey," "How to Recognize Middle C, For Chula," "A Human Poem."
"I," "I am a hooligan," "I Could Not Curse the Hook," "I Feel Sorry for Jesus," "I have no inclination to eat sweets anymore," "I look into Virginia," "I move inside the slow breathing," "I need," "I Tell Myself the Following Story," "I was thinking of Poems," "Ideas Do Not Go Far in the Wilderness," "If Sadness Had a Head," "If You Just Start Drawing You Don't Know Where It's Going to End Up," "In Real Life," "In Unison," "Instructions Number One," "Instructions Number Two," "Intensive Care," "Interview, Saudi Arabia," "Invisible," "Invitation to Restlessness," "Island," "It's Everywhere," "It's Hallie Stillwell's Birthday and What Can We Give Her?."
"Jack Kerouac's Will," "January's Clean Bright Cap," "Jay's Dog Naomi," "Jefferson, Texas," "Jerusalem," "Jerusalem Headlines 2000," "Jesse the Cat," "Jesus is the King of Cuero," "Jordan's Blizzard," "The Journey of Pablo Tamayo," "July Fourth," "July 9, 1970," "June 26, 1995," "Kansas (for Michael)," "Kindness," "The King's Highway," "Knitting, Crocheting, Sewing…."
"La Conner, Prayer," "Labrador," "Last August Hours before the Year 2000," "Late," "Late in Life He Realizes His One True Love Has Been a Broom," "Lately all I write is Going-poems," "Leaning Toward Mecca - for my father," "Learning to Walk on the Hardest Floor," "Leaving Antigua," "Leaving the Park," "Leaving Pittsburgh - for Samuel Hazo and Pat Truschel," "Lena," "The Length of Red Tape," "Leo," "The Letter," "A Letter to My Mother," "Letters," "Letters My Prez Is Not Sending," "Lexicon," "Library," "Life Story," "Light & Stones: The Viewing of an Exhibit, for Mona Sau'di," "The Light Where Lives Intercept," "Lights from Other Windows," "Lights on the Loop."
"Like a spectator at a football game," "Linked," undated, "Little Blanco River," "Little Boy Calling Mama," "Little Neighborhood Things," "The Little Pitcher," "Live Models," "Lives of the Women Poets," "Living Alone Inside One's Own Body," "Living at the Airport," "Living Where We Do," "Living With Art," "Lizard," "Lobster Knocking on the Lid of a Pan," "Locusts' Lament," "The Loneliness of Having a Baby," "Long Distance," "Longview County Fair," "Long Match," "Lookout Mountain, Chattanooga Tennessee," "Losing at Marbles," "Losing My Wisest Tooth," "Lost Creed," "Love Letter, Hate Letter," "Lucia, Your Voice," "Luggage," "Lunch Box," "Lunch in Nablus City Park," "Lure."
"Mad," "Made of Wood," "Magician," "Magnetic Poetry Kit," "Mail," "Maître D'," "Making a Fist," "The Man Who Hated Trees," "The Man Who Makes Brooms, Jerusalem, 1983," "The Man Who Quoted Thoreau in the Laundromat," "The Man Who Screamed in His House," "The Man Who Steals Newspapers," "The Many Hats of William Yale," "Map," "Margaret," "Marilyn," "Marriage," "Martita y Luisa," "Maui—In Trade," "Max," "Meat," "Meditation," "Memphis – for Carmon," "Message," "Message in the thin wind before bedtime," "Mexican Food in Vermont: for Geof Hewitt," "Mexico at Age 7," "Migrating."
"Mine," "Minnows," "Missing Me, Wish I Were Here," "Missing the Indians," "Morning on South Main," "Mother of Nothing," "My Body is a Mystery," "My Cosmic Poem – for Craig," "My Father and the Figtree," "My Grandmother Has Tattooed Feet," "My Grandmother in the Stars," "My Little Blue Plant," "My Neighbor at 98," "My President Went," "My turtle curls inside her walls," "My Two Machines," "Mysteries," "The Mystery," "The Mystery."
"Necessity Is Only 8 Miles Away," "Necklace," "Needing Basketball," "Negotiations with a Volcano," "The Net," "New Skills," "New Year's Eve was a 4 sleeping bag night," "The News," "Nez Perce," "Niagara," "Night Shift," "Nine Years Later (remembering William Stafford)," "No Limit," "No Souvenirs," "No Wonder," "Nobody's Newspaper," "North Carolina," "Not Gone-For Rusty," "Not Knowing," "Notes From the Dream Journal of a Light Sleeper."
"Oats," "Ocean," "The Ocean of Hope," "October, California," "Office 337, Wheeler Hall, Berkeley," "Old Crying," "Old Days," "The Old Friend Has Longer Hair," "Old Friends," "Old Man in Canada," "The old man stood in his suit and said," "The Old Yellow Chair," "Olive Jar," "Olive Skin, Olive Bones," "On a hot humid summer evening in a small town in south Texas," "On Being the Daughter," "On Counting Chickens," "On Learning My Childhood Best Friend Became an Unwed Mother," "On Moving Bruce Cunningham's Blank Canvases, Longview TX. Sept 10, 1974," "On My Way to the Reading of Poems," "On Overhearing a Teacher Say, 'So What if the Arabs had Israel before the Jews Took Over, They Weren't Doing a Damn Thing with It'," "On Receiving a Note from My Editor which Called a Certain Poem Dimwitted," "On the Canadian National Railroad," "On the Road to Chichicastenango," "On This Side of the World," "Once at a stoplight I saw my old best friend," "One Boy Told Me," "One Difference," "One Island," "One Man's Way," "One of a Kind," "One of the things that I wonder about is," "One Way or the Other," "The Only Necessary Profession," "Open Wide," "Our Best Selves," "Our Friend Tonio," "Out There," "Out West," "Over the Fence."
"A Pacifist Declares War at the Mercedes Dealer," "Pacify," "The Palace Cafe, Shiner, Texas," "Pakistan with Open Arms," "A Palestinian Might Say," "Papaya," "Parade," "Parking Lot," "Parts," "Passing the Seminary Cemetery on the Way to the Airport," "Password," "Peter Pan Man Poem," "Phone Number Written on a Leaf," "Photograph - for my parents," "Pictures from the Village," "Pilgrimage," "Pioneers," "Plans," "Pocket - for Bob Bonazzi," "Pockets," "a poem again," "Poem for Nancy and Lou," "The Poem I Never Write," "The Poem Lives in a Small House," "Poem to D.C.," "A poem to Dubby who always seems to think that everybody else has a whole lot going on," "A Poem to Janice & all the Miriams," "A Poem to Liberation," "A Poem Triggered by Something in a Newspaper or Magazine," "Poetry for Dinner," "Polar Bear," "The Political Luncheon," "Porch," "Possible," "Praise and Worship," "Prayer in My Boot," "Pull Up a Chair - in memory of Omar Sharif, d.2015 and Aziz Shihab, d. 2007," "Putting the Dog to Sleep."
"Questions One Might Ask Upon Leaving Haystack - To Stuart, from Naomi," "A quiet nineteenth spring," "Quilting Class," "Quilts," "The Radiance of Waves - for Harryette Mullen," "Rain," "Realizing Exactly What Happened at One O'Clock in the Morning," "Remembered," "The Rider," "Rinse," "Riviera Beach, Texas & My Twenty-Third Birthday," "Road Test," "The Road to Aleppo," "Rock," "Rock and Roll Thanksgiving," "Room," Rose," "The Round Window Waits with its Eye Half Open," "Roy Perez is Holding His Head Up Today," "R.S.V.P.," "Rudolf Staffel" "Rumors of a Crowd."
"Salmon River in the Rain," "San Antonio," "San Antonio Song," "Santa Barbara," "Santa Fe," "Saving Half a Rainbow," "Saying So - for Chula," "A School in Jerusalem," "School bell," "Seaside Memorial Park, Corpus Christi, Texas," "Second-to-Last Words," "Secrets of Housekeeping," "Sedona Inspirational Hymn," "Senor de la Basura Dios te Mira," "Shelbyville," "The Shiner Museum (Shiner, Texas)," "Shoo-fly Pie," "Shrine of Hair," "Shrines," "Signs," "The Silence of Hutchinson, Kansas: A Letter from Texas," "Silent night in the forest," "The Silver Cart," "Simon Dreams of Africa," "Simple Life," "Simple Tastes," "Singing Myself Awake," "Sitti Speaks with the Angels," "Skins," "Sleeping and Waking," "Slump," "The Small Vases from Hebron," "Smoke," "The smudge is smoke rising," "Snow," "Soap Does Not Have Supernatural Powers - for Adlai," "Soft Returns - for my mother," "solitude the teacher," "Some Days," "Some Days I Wish I Had Been Born," "Some Poems That I Picked Off a Bunch Of Grapes," "Some Relief to Think of Stars."
"Somebody's Story," "'Someday," he said, 'we will all float down the Potomac,'" "Someone is Standing on the Roof of the World," "Sometimes," "Sometimes driving across the expanses of the western United States," "Sometimes I Know Why Jack Kerouac Drank and Then Sometimes I Drink - Mark Rasette," "Sometimes I Pretend," "'Sometimes If You Stir the Water Around It Revives Them'," "Somewhere in the Greens," "The Song," "South Main," "A Specific Poem for Edna, Texas, May 21, 1979," "Speechless - for David," "Sphinx," "A Spider in the Honey Bun Machine," "Spruce Street, Berkeley – for Dolores & Josh," "Staggering around the Old Familiar Room," "Stay," "Staying Close," "steeped in morning wonder, i sit at a long table of books and do not want to study - or - tea," "St. Louis," "Still Waiting for a Dull Moment," "The Stolen Camera," "The Strategy of Silence," "The Street Sweeper Dies in Comanche," "Streets," "Stretched with taut unsleeping, I lie awake," "Suburban," "Sunday Newspaper August 6, 1995," "Sunday Walk, Richmond," "Sure," "A Survey of Breads in Popayan, Colombia," "Swerve, for Patty & Vince Wixon," "Swimmer, Blessed Sea."
"T Train," "Table for One," "Take-Off Poem," "Talking Forever – for Palestine and Dareen Tatour," "Tasting Your Food," "Tea Seller, Rajasthan," "Ted Kooser Is My President," "Telephone," "The Telling of Time," "Texas Cavaliers Cancel River Parade," "Texas Grill, Thanksgiving Eve," "Texas in the Old Days," "Texas, the First Time," "Thank You," "That Skinny Tip of Land," "There Is a Box in my Closet Full of Hugging," "There is a Huge, Dead Raccoon Under the Boat Get it Out and Why?," "There Is, in Each of Us," "There is a place where every day has a crown," "There is magic in this scrubbed land," "There is the worry of a mother who hears her son," "There Should Be a Suggestion of Firmness in the Cooked Poetry," "These Days," "Think of You I'll Think of Me," "Thinking About Cows at Ten O'Clock in the Morning, Abilene," "This Green - with respect to Federico Garcia Lorca," "This Is My Solemn Vow," "This Little Arm," "This Much Sun," "This Restaurant Where I Work," "This Solid Cat," "This Tree," "Those Precious Early Years," "Thread," "Three Mule Deer, Dusk, Organ Mountains," "Through the Kitchen Window, Chiapas," "Thunder," "The Time," "Time to go to bed but once again I pull out a piece of white paper."
"To a field," "To Free that Ache," "To Love You," "To Marc who said, "Constantly in the Company," "To My Texas Handbook," "To One Now Grown," "To Saint Christopher and Dave from Sunday Roller," "To the People Who Keep Showing Up," "To the Person Who Sent Me My First Piece of Hate Mail (Which Arrived on Valentine's Day) or Thanks A Lot," "To the Tree Frogs Outside the Window," "Today Jude Went to Heaven," "Today while standing in a post office that never," "Touring the Old Neighborhood," "Toys on the Planet Earth," "Trade," "Tranquil Desperation," "The Trashpickers, Madison Street," "The Traveling Onion," "Trouble with the Stars & Stripes," "The True Picture," "Trying to Name What Doesn't Change," "Tundra," "Tuba," "The Tunnel of Question," "Twelve O'clock at the Local Coffee Shop - for Charlie Busch," "2 a.m.," "Two Countries," "Two Hours North of the Border."
"An Unobscure Wise Poem for William Blake," "Up in the middle of the night & so very unfree of my body," "An Ushering Poem for All Ushers Everywhere," "Valentine for Ernest Mann," "Vocabulary of a Hen," "A Voice in the Restaurant," "Voices."
"Walking Down Blanco Road at Midnight," "Walking Downtown," "War," "Washing Clothes," "Watching Mothers at the Laundromat Cross Their Legs, Left Over Right," "Watching People Through Lighted Windows Eating Dinner," "Watching You When You're Not Looking," "The Way They Drive in Mexico," "We All Hail to Thee and Thy Name Forever," "We Who Are Expecting Nothing," "We will keep our freshness with us," "Wedding Cake," "A Week Before the Election," "The West Side, San Antonio, 1981," "Westbound," "What Am I to Think," "'What are you-all doing in that corner?,'" "What Are You Doing for Your Country (For the boys at Um-al-Hussein Orphanage, Jordan)," "What Brings Us Out," "What Gertrude Stein Felt When She Walked Through a Doorway," "What Happened to the Air," "What Has Been Done to Women," ""What Have You Done All Day?' Question 'Not a Damn Thing' Mr. E.K. Flach, ranchman, Sisterdale, Texas," "What He Said to His Enemies," "What I Like," "What Is It in Breaking Up," "What People Do," "What She Knew," "What She Wants," "What We Expect," "What We Will Say to One Another," "What Will Happen?" "What's Wrong with Us?" "When I was a little kid about ten years ago," "When I Was Little," "When Something You Love Dies," "When the Flag is Raised - for Judith McPheron," "When the Mission Is Not a Success," "When You Appear in a Dream - for Bill Stafford," "When you wake up."
"Where did it come from?," "Wherever I Am, It's Not Here," "Wherever We Go, We Come to This," "While I Was in Canada, I Dreamed of You Once," "While in Victoria Texas for the Armadillo Race - for C.B.," "While Standing on the Edge of the Guadalupe River," "While Wandering Through Restaurant Supply Houses June 1975," "White Hair," "White Hair Over the Rocky Mountains," "Who?," "Whoever Art Was Sleeping With, It Wasn't Me," "Why, at the Age of Twenty-Three, I Am Still Not a Ski Sweater?," "Why I Am Looking at You This Way," "Why I Am Looking at You This Way," "Why I Don't Eat Much Anymore," "Why Terri Keeps Losing Things - for Teresa Anderson," "Why We Go to the Farms," "Why You Don't See Me Anymore," "Wide World," "Window Waits with its Eye Half Open," "A Woman Who Talks with Angels - for my grandmother, north of Jerusalem," "The Woman who Wrote Letters," "Women Licking Their Wounds," "Wondering About What I Do Every Day," "Wood," "The Word for Missing Rio," "Working at the Physical Fitness Club in the Lunch Bar," "Working for Tom," "The World in Translation," "The World, Starring You," "The World We Are In," "The World's Highest Passenger Railway," "Words," "Worry," "Wrong."
"Yellow Glove," "Yes," "You," "You Are a Quiet Song," "You Are Not at Home," "You Can't Fool Me," "You sit in my yard like the Sphinx of ancient Egypt," "Your Name," "Your Weight, at Birth," "You're So Nice I Will Kiss You On the Bones," "You're welcome!"
"Day one flight of a mind," "Mad," "Phone Number Written on a Leaf," "Silver Bracelet," "Hairs," "Hiding Inside the Good Girl," "Whiplash," and "We're driving south in Oregon in a car filled with stories," 4 typewritten pages. "Famous," "My Uncle's Favorite Coffee Shop," "The Story, Around the Corner," and "Trying to Name What Doesn't Change," 3 printout pages. "Five unpublished tiny poems for my Daddy," "My Immigrant Dad, On Voting," "Daddy Help Us!," "Daddy Died But," and "C'Mon Daddy," 4 typewritten pages. "He wants to, then," "Following the Track," and "Coats on the Bed," 5 typewritten pages, (3 leaves). "The House in the Heart," "With the Greeks," "Office 337, Wheeler Hall, Berkeley," "One Island," Catalogue Army," "Leo," and "Trying to Name What Doesn't Change," 7 typewritten mimeo pages. "I move inside the slow breathing," "We have traveled, we have been to other countries," ""What are you doing in that corner?," "To be continuously moving things around," "Meditation," "The old man stood in his suit and said," "Banana Fritter City," "I never knew it would hurt so much to get free," and "I wish that someday you would not be so full of wishes," 11 handwritten and typewritten mimeo pages.
"In memory, Al Mueller, Mueller's Organic Farm, Ferguson, Missouri", "From Earth," "Job," "The Mind of Squash," "Shade," "Tether," "Junk," "I Was Thinking of Poems," "What Happened to Everybody," 2 copies of each, 18 printout pages. "Knitting, Crocheting, Sewing…," "Birthday," "Faces Coming Out of Carnegie Hall," and "Salmon River in the Rain," 5 printout pages. "Leaving Him," "Violin," "Frontier," and "What She Was Doing at Home," 1 typewritten page. "Little Blanco River," "I Don't Want to Scare You," "Watching You When You're Not Looking," "Alchemy of the Heart," and "Coming Up for Air," 4 typewritten pages with extensive reader comments. "Messages From Everyone," "Who's Rich?" 2 color photocopies with illustrations. "Money," "Tony," "Always Bring a Pencil," "Simple Tastes," "The Teachers Introduce Themselves Around a Table," "Lag," "White Hair," "The Difficult Life of a Leaf in Tokyo-Yokohama." Last page titled "Small Poems from Japan" and includes "The Crickets Welcome Me to Japan" and "Morito Beach," 6 printout pages, corrected. "On Counting Chickens," "The Single Thing that Draws," "Oats," "We have traveled, we have been to other countries," 2 typewritten pages. "On the Canadian National Railroad," "Sometimes if You Stir the Water Around It Revives Them," "Magician," "Walking Down Blanco Road at Midnight," "Parking Lot," "Redwood Trees," "When I Was Little & There Was Not This Ache," and "Learning How to Eat," 9 handwritten pages. "Our Daily Conversations," "Good Morning I Am an American Shut Up," "Why the Babysitter Cried," 6 typewritten pages.
"Poetry by Naomi Shihab Nye," includes "Voices," "For the 500th Dead Palestinian, Ibtisam Bozieh," "If God Won't Take Me, Why Won't the Devil?," "Making a Fist," "Shoulders," "Morning Paper, Society Page," "Famous," "Texas, the First Time," and "What Is Supposed to Happen," 2 typewritten pages. "Poetry Reading on Wednesday, February 11, 1987," a selection of 10 poems from Yellow Glove, including "The Gardener," "Looking for the Cat Grave," "Telling the Story," "What is Given, What Is Not Given," "The Use of Fiction," "Two Countries," "Jerusalem," "When the Flag is Raised – for Judith McPheron," "Rain," and "Dew." 2 typewritten pages. "The Porch of Mr. Laguna," "Teacher, Teacher," "Sometimes the Indians," and "At my 20th high school reunion," 4 printout pages. "Shoulders," "How to Paint a Donkey," "Famous," "Rebellion Against the North Side," "The Flying Cat," "Rain," "The Mother Writes to the Murderer: A Letter," "The Little Brother Poem," and "One Boy Told Me," 2 typewritten pages. "Sky Pie Written in Houston Traffic," "I guess I'll just do what I can see," "God Bless You Little Old Nowhere Man on the Corner," "While on a Trip to Florida," "Sequel to Even When I'm Not With You," "For Stephen Foster," "Those Coming In and Those Coming Out," "I can imagine being old and dying inside," "My Protest Poem (No Belligerence, Just Fact)," "Protest Song #2," "A Letter to My Love Who is Far Away Down the Same Coast," "Long," 11 handwritten pages with corrections. "Thinking of an Island Far Away," "On My Father's 65th Birthday," and "Two Boys and a Hose in May," 3 handwritten pages with corrections. "Two Pages of Moments," circa 1974, "The Hair," "Monday," "While Sitting in My William Blake Class," "So You Are Going to be a Writer," "The Same Old Songs," "Upon Visiting Your Room for the Second-to-Last Time," "Our Job," "New Skills," 2 typewritten pages. "Two Pictures – for Jane," circa 1968, "Be Willing – In Celebration of the Life of Jane Browne Bove," 1 printout page with handwritten note. "The United States is Not the World," "Our Best Selves," and "Wee Path," 4 printout pages. "An Unobscure Poem for William Blake," circa 1972, "We have traveled, we have been to other countries," "Dying," "On Counting Chickens," "Soft Returns," "Pockets," and "So You Are Going to be a Writer," 3 typewritten pages. "The Whole Self," "The Shopper," "Over the Fence," and "Making a Fist," photocopy of 1 typewritten page.
"The Ambassador," "St. Louis," "Arabic Coffee" and others, translated into German, 30 printout pages. "At Otto's Place" and others, 8 typewritten pages. "Catalogue Army" and others, poems from Yellow Glove. 4 typewritten pages. "Madison Street" and others, 15 typewritten pages.
"Making a Fist" and others, 15 typewritten pages, some with corrections. "Our World" and others, 22 printout pages. "Sleep's Little House" and others, 4 typewritten and printout pages. "Thank you" and others, 29 typewritten and printout pages, includes 2 songs.
"Just Call Me Aziz," "Everything in Our World Did Not Seem to Fit," "My Life Before America Had No Toilet Tissue," "We Did Not Have Drinking Water in the Middle of the Ocean," "Is Misery Near Kansas, I Asked," "Many Asked Me Not to Forget Them," "A Kansas Preacher Called Me Muscleman," "I Hate It, I Love It," "When One is So Far from Home, Life is a Mix of Fact & Fiction," "Being Back with the Family is Quite Wonderful but Terribly Exhausting," "Member of the Tribe," "Fifty Years Since I Prayed or Thought in Arabic."
"Two Early Poems from Modern Poetry Studies" and others, 106 typewritten, published and photocopied, and handwritten pages.
"Problems," "Longfellow's Bed," "Chico Brothers Fruit & Vegetable #1," Chico Brothers Fruit & Vegetable #2," "Standing Back," "Room for You Here," "Thinking About Anything," "Enthusiast," "Remember Me."
Poet Profile, "In Her Own Words," "Say These Things," "Blue Bucket."
Nye poems translated into Spanish, all previously published in collections except "So Far," 7 printout pages. Includes "So Far," "The Travelling Onion," "The Man Who Makes Brooms," "The Uses of Fiction," "Seven Mile Ranch, Comstock, Texas," "The Art of Disappearing," "So Much Happiness"
"Dignity Digs Differences," 5 OS pages, handwritten with corrections and annotations.
"Once," 1 oversized page, handwritten. Includes prose piece "A Natural Thursday," handwritten with corrections.
"One of a Kind," 1 oversized page, hand written with corrections and annotations.
"A True Arab," Newspaper publication.
"Eight Years Ago."
"An incredibly sad-feeling time."
Many poems include duplicates, multiple drafts, corrections, and notations of submission or publication.
Printout draft of an introduction and most poems in final collection, with minor corrections; includes "With the Children at the River," one handwritten page with corrections. Printout drafts, with page numbers and minor corrections.
Includes proof sent from Judith with correspondence; major corrections and annotations by Judith and Nye.
With writer and editor corrections and annotations
Cover and table of contents, notations on poem "One Boy Told Me."
Printout drafts with editor's notes.
Draft with light notations, 2 copies. Printout draft, "To Virginia," with some annotation.
3 color printouts, 10 photographic slides, examples from magazines.
See also Editor's Correspondence, 2001-2002 for correspondence with Virginia Duncan, including drafts of introduction.
List of poem titles, publisher agreement form, publisher public comments, poems "Steps," "19 Varieties of Gazelle," and "The Tray."
"Flinn, On the Bus," 3 printout drafts with corrections and annotations.
Includes faxes with editor Virginia Duncan and some notes.
Correspondence including draft of introduction in Editor Correspondence, Feb.-March 2004.
80 pages.
With annotations by Nye. 173 pages.
With annotations by Nye.
Travel itinerary and notes.
With annotations.
Ideas and notes.
Note that correspondence and poems related to The Space Between Our Footsteps, 1998, can be found in Series III: Correspondence, under various correspondents.
Includes contributor list and multiple drafts removed from Editor's Correspondence.
141 pages
In sections
Flap, and contributor's notes.
Light edits on introduction.
25 prints and color photocopies by Ashley Bryan.
Poems and bios with Nye annotations.
Correspondence and poems by Abu Zafar Obaidullah, Farhad Mazhar, Humayun Azad, Humayun Kabir, Mohammad Moniruzzaman, Rafiq Azad, Al Mahmud. Preface and contributor's notes.
Also titled "Connected" and "No War, Please."
Handmade book
Short story
273 pages
Annotations by Nye and Duncan.
Fragments with notes. Heavily annotated by Duncan.
With notes by Nye and Duncan.
Complete draft. Heavily annotated, with correspondence from Virginia.
Heavily annotated.
Heavily annotated.
Heavily annotated.
With cover and illustrations. Oversized.
With annotations by Nye and Duncan.
Oversized
Includes correspondence to Duncan from Nye.
Draft manuscript with notes. Includes correspondence to Duncan from Nye, and annotations by Duncan.
141 pages
Some include notes from Virginia Duncan.
With corrections and annotations by Duncan and Nye.
With corrections and annotations by Duncan and Nye.
With corrections and annotations by Duncan and Nye.
Includes draft of Connected.
Includes submissions to and comments on The Tree Is Older Than You Are.
Includes draft of Connected and Benito's Dream Bottle
Includes draft and notes on contributors for The Tree is Older than You Are "Mexico Book."
Includes This Tree is Older than you Are (contributors), I Feel a Little Jumpy
Includes partial draft and proof of I Feel a Little Jumpy, and Duncan's response to Habibi.
Includes copyediting and draft of Habibi chapter.
Includes poems and title for Fuel, and poems for Come with Me.
Includes correspondence related to The Space Between Our Footsteps.
Includes images and draft passages for What Have You Lost? Includes letter from Ashley Bryan.
Includes Salting the Ocean, interfiled with What Have you Lost? Includes floppy disk.
Includes Salting the Ocean title, and What Have you Lost? proof with annotations.
Includes correspondence related to Salting the Ocean and What Have you Lost?
Includes contributor response to The Space Between Our Footsteps, Salting the Ocean introduction
Includes Salting the Ocean introduction and reviews, The Space Between Our Footsteps reviews in Arabic.
Includes notes from Duncan on Going, Going, draft of "To Any Would-Be Terrorists," and notes from Duncan on 19 Varieties of Gazelle
Includes A Maze Me, correspondence with Terre Maher, and Time You Let Me In.
"Ahmad and Hanna," "Any Idea," "Ashtray," "Beet Cake," "Begonias," "Box," "Bringing in the Sheaves," "Cat Lips," "Camel Like Only Camel," "Coats on the Bed," "The Cookies."
"Damascus Gate," "David Crockett's Other Life," "The Day After the Wedding," "Dignity," "Easter Bonnet," "The Endless Breakfast," "Enigma," "Field Trip," "The Folded Edge of the Bag," "Free Day in Toronto," "Fun."
"The Gentle Women," "Going Away," "Hamadi," "Holiday Greetings," "Hot Dog," "Hum," "Humility," "I Don't Want to Talk About It," "I'm Sorry," "In the Church of Crying Babies," "Jesse and the Supernatural Foods," "Keys."
"Leaving Home," "The Little Boy and the Sun," "Little Dog of Sadness," "Little Nomad," "Local Hospitality," "Long Overdue," "The Losing Book," "Lost Camel at McKenzie Bridge."
"Marfa Lights," "May We Please See the Arab?," "Mint Snowball."
"New Man," "Nobody Thinks of Dying in the Middle of the Day," "OK," "On the Front Steps of the Hall Where W.S. Merwin is Reading," "One," "One Moment on Top of the Earth," "One Village," "The Orange, the Fig, the Whisper of Grapes."
"The Peace Party," "The Peace party," "Popayan Story," "The Rattle of Wheels Toward the Rooms of the New Mothers," "Red Velvet Dress," "Rooster," "Roses for Lubbock," "Ruby."
"Thoreau is My Partner," "Three Pokes of a Thistle," "Tomorrow We Smile," "Tonight I Fed the Chickens a Pumpkin Pie and Wrote This," "Trees and Stars and More Trees and More Stars," "Tribute to a Friend," "Tulips," "Unlimited Visibility," "Used Cars on Oahu."
"Water," "We Cannot Have a Couch," "Weather Man," "What is the Dickens?," "A Wild of Sand," "With Three Children, At the River," "The World and All Its Teeth," "You can remember that summer," "Your Buddy is Typing."
"About," "Affirmations of Loyalty," "All Trekked Out: A Non-Trekkie at a Star Trek Convention," "The Alpine Express," "The American Cultural Center in Dhaka, Bangladesh," "At Once," "Banned Poem (East Jerusalem, 1992)," "Beautiful Strangers," "Before you gobble that dinner," "Blood," "Bread," "Breaking the Sound Barrier," "Bridging the Waters"
"Cat Histories," "Chicken Story," "Christmas in Bethlehem," "The City of Chicago, the Laundry Bag, the Poem," "Connected," "Dec. 22, 1978," "Delicious Rhythms, Enduring Words," "Discovering Ourselves Through Words: Pajamas in the Wind," "Doing What We Can," "Esperanza art offers balanced dialogue, ideas," "Gardening is My Favorite Sport," "Grazing"
"Hot Wells Oral Histories Project," "How to Get There," "I couldn't believe my ears," "The Inspiration Article," "Last Day of School," "Letter to the Front," "Lights in the Windows"
"Meander," "Mixed but Not Mixed-Up," "Neighborhood Quartet in a Minor Key," "Notes on an Uninterrupted Hour's Visit with James Michener, Austin, Texas, May 16, 1995," "Newlyweds hike the Inca Trail," "On Being Asked, 'Are You a Good Mother?'," "On the Brink of War," "On Signing Books," "Open Arms," "Poetry Peddler," "Reading Poetry"
"Seat Mates," "Seeing the Nineties," "Seven Splendid Minutes," "Signs & Apparitions," "A Sliver of Brightness Coming Back," "Statement for the Great Plains Issue," "Stepping back into another time," "Stitches," "Stricken city's tranquility recalled," "The Swimming Lesson"
"Vacant Lots," "War Has No Imagination," "We All Walk on Bones," "What Do You Think?" "Why is the Busdriver Mean?" "Wind in a Bucket: Poetry and Energy in Young Lives," "Wolves," "Your Voice is a Ticket!"
Includes comments from the San Antonio Express-News. "Roses for Lubbock," "Liberty Food Store," "Introductions," "Train Station," "Downtown Dwellers," "Kids' Conversations," "Schupp's Woodwork," "Beryl Baird," "Critics"
"White Coals," "Broken Clock," "Flashbulb," "Pins," "Speaking Arabic" Photocopied from Michigan Quarterly Review. Later published in Never in a Hurry.
"Talk, Talk, Talk," "Henry, I Hardly Knew You," "A few notes on humility," "Fun," "The art of signing your book," "An Old, Painful Story," "Struck Invisible," "Seeing the Nineties," "Neighborhood Quartet," "Texas always remained his own country," "Decisions no piece of cake," "Searching the gutter for shine," "Everybody Knows Something...and The Little Engine That Doesn't Feel Like It," "Generations," "San Antonio: The City of Hearts," Letter from Jerusalem"
"A Collection of Poets," "Billboards, sign of times," "In Such Times, Ties Must Bind"
Oversized, 6 handwritten pages. "When I was in high school."
Journals and magazines containing poems or prose by Nye. Also includes poetry edited by Nye and an interview. Incomplete runs of Cedar Rock and Organica, containing poetry and edited poetry. Arranged chronologically.
Montage (Robert E. Lee High School Literary Journal)
The Folder
The Mirage (Trinity University Yearbook)
Hawaii Review
Texas Portfolio
POWER: Personal Reflections by Youth for Youth
Loon 7
Yellow Brick Road
Benedikt: A Profile
International Poetry Review
The Paris Review
Shadowgraphs
Cellar Door
Permafrost
Wrapping the Grapeleaves
River Sedge
Stories
Teachers and Writers
The Chowder Review
The International Poetry Forum Collector's Deskbook
Event
 Painted Bride Quarterly
The Journal of The English Literature Club
Image
Texas Journal
 Painted Bride Quarterly
Literary Cavalcade
Southwest Review
The Georgia Review
Southwest Review
Michigan Quarterly Review
American Way
Booklist
Parenting
Communicator
The Alan Review
Poetry Kanto
Texas
Bookmarks
Southwest Review
Instructor
Voice
Signal Journal
The Horn Book Magazine
One Trick Pony
The Texas Observer
Texas Literary Connections
Transformation
U.S. Catholic
CBC Features
Journey
Five Points
School Library Journal
O, The Oprah Magazine
Natural Selection
Islamic Studies
Writers on America
Mizna
Speakeasy
Speakeasy
Speakeasy
Divide
Charlotte Zolotow Lecture
Maize
Jung Society of Atlanta
Knowledge Quest
The Cate Review
The Texas Observer
Double Take
Inside Out
The Sun
Alhambra Poetry Calendar
Kansas City Voices
Voices de la Luna
Reader's Digest
Dear Frau Bleibtreu, LiteraturRaum
Alhambra Poetry Calendar
Poetry at Round Top
Voices de la Luna
Lincoln Center Presents Mostly Mozart
San Pedro River Review
St. Louis County Attorney's Office 2012 Annual Report
Harvard Divinity Bulletin
Oregon English Journal
Scholastic Scope
On Second Thought
Summer Theater
Remnants
Chiu Shui Poetry Quarterly (in Chinese)
Pens Up
Poetry at Round Top
Voices de la Luna
Playbill for Lincoln Center Presents: White Light Festival
The Art of Change: A Poetry Incubator
World Literature Today
On Second Thought
World Literature Today
Sojourners
World Literature Today
Love Poems to San Antonio
Pelorus Press
Texas Monthly
Akzente
 St. Louis County Attorney's Office Annual Report
Jefferson Journal
Apricity Magazine
WisdomWays
Oklahoma Humanities
Gannon University 37th Annual English Awards Night
"Rain," Communities. "The Round Window Waits with its Eye Half Open," "Quiet of the Mind," "So There," "Concrete," ¡Tex! "The Traveling Onion," and Interview with Michael and Naomi Shihab Nye, Forum.
"Clean Slate," New York Times
Poetry quarterly, New Braunfels, Texas, incomplete. Poetry and poetry editing by Nye.
Tampa, FLA, incomplete. Regular poetry column by Nye.
"The Day," "During a War," "Words Under the Words" quotation," "The Day," "The Shopper," "Kindness," "Wind of Enthusiasm," "The Traveling Onion," exhibition catalog for "Swimmer, Blessed Sea."
"Fold," "his life," "It Is Not a Game It Was Never a Game," "Red Brocade," "Big Head, Big Face.".
"Broadsheet #1," "…Books and Stationery, Some Still Tied in Bundles, Littered the Street," "A Renga by the Chancellors of the Academy of American Poets."
"Swimmer, Blessed Sea," "Kindness," "Sometimes I Pretend," "Elevator."
Notes and fragments
Notes and fragments
Includes program, poems, and research
Includes research
VHS tape
1 open reel audio tape
The Correspondence Series is divided into A-Z and Family. Note that correspondence with Virginia Duncan is included in Works-Editor Correspondence. Correspondence A-Z is arranged alphabetically by correspondent and includes personal and business correspondence. Letters and emails may include poems by correspondent; this information and the institution and/or related work by Nye is noted when known. Correspondents with multiple letters are housed in separate folders; these include Roberto (Bob) Bonazzi, Ashley Bryan, Edward Hirsch, Albert Huffstickler, Ted Kooser, Maury Maverick, Jr., Michael W. McCann, William McNamara, William (W.S.) Merwin, John Phillip Santos, William (Bill) Stafford, and Kim and Kit Stafford. Evidence of Nye's personal relationships with several of these poets and their families is in folders of Stella Kerouac, Barbara Stafford Wilson, and in particular Dorothy Stafford and Paula Merwin. Family Correspondence includes the Shihabs and the Nyes, and is arranged alphabetically by correspondent.
Aaker, Linda. Abu Nab, Ibrahim (Trimedia). Adamo, Ralph (The Barataria Review). Adams, Michael (The University of Texas at Austin). Adamshick, Carl. Ahmed, Kamaluddin (Ahmed Publishing House). Alejandro, Ann. Alexander, Kwame. Alexander, Meena. Ali, Ahmed. Allyn, Pam. Amico, Sam. Amir, Ronny. Anderson, Teresa. Anker, Mary. Aragon, Margo and Horace Axtell. Araguz, Jose Angel. Armitage, Simon. Atlee, Champ (The Lawrenceville School). Atwan, Robert (The Best American Essays). Austin, Brad.
Bachman, John. Baer, Zet. Baker, Kathy. Barghouti, Omar. Barakat, Ibtisam Suleiman. Barbee, Lynne (Journal of Palestine Studies). Barks, Coleman (University of Georgia). Bass, Ellen. Bass, Rick. Bedway, Barbara. Bekoff, Marc (University of Colorado-Boulder). Bell, Marvin. Belul, Sherry R. Ben-Israel, Yael. Benedikt, Michael (The New Yorker). Benka, Jennifer (Academy of American Poets). Bennett, John (Vagabond Press). Berger, Barbara. Berger, Margi. Berryhill, Michael.
Blackford, Staige, D. (The Virginia Quarterly Review). Blanco, Albert. Bly, Robert (The Seventies Press). Bodem, Tiffany. Bonazzi, Liz. Bonnerjee, Supreo. Booth. Bottoms, David (Georgia State University). Boullata, Kamal J. Bowles, Brad (University of Colorado at Denver). Brantley, John D. Braun, Robert. Brenner, Marie. Breverman, Harvey. Bristow, Bill (Trinity University). Britton, Marcia Wolter (Wyoming Humanities Council). Brown, Jessie. Brummet, John (Scape). Buchholz, Brad (Austin American-Statesman). Burgess, Lynne. Burke, David W. Burlingame, Robert (Bob). Busch, Charles. Bush, Barbara. Bush, George W. Butt, Charles. Buttimer, Chris.
Calkins, Lucy (Teachers College - Columbia University). Candler, Cynthia. Carlisle, Andrea. Carlstrom, Nancy White. Carrigan, Andrew. Carrigan, Mark C. (Towers Guest Speakers Committee). Carpenter, Nancy. Carter, Betty. Carter, Rosalynn and Jimmy. Castro, Jesse. Castro, Joy. Catacalos, Rosa. Cauthorn, Julia. Cech, John.
Charara, Hayan. Chatton, Barbara. Chavez, Denise. Cheng, Gu. Chiari, Margaret (Journal of Palestine Studies). Chomeau, Vinni (Friends of Gibraltar & Write On, Door County). Christians, Carol. Chute, Carolyn. Cichowski, Gregory and Emine. Ciccotelli, Darin. Cisneros, Catherine (URBAN-15 Group). Cisneros, Sandra. Clewell, David. Coffey, Ruth. Colby, Sas. Cole, Peter (Ibis Editions). Collins, Joe. Cook, Molly. Court, Georgia (Poetry Life). Coy, John. Crisp, Margie. Crookston, Carly. Crouch, Helen "Shatzie." Cuba, Nan Brindley. Curling, Brian.
Dana, Robert. Daniel, John (Wilderness Magazine). Daniel, Kathleen. Darling, Amy. Daventry, Claudia. de la Garza, Dottie Dorothy. DeMarinis, Rick. Der Hovanessian, Diana. Derricotte, Toi (University of Pittsburgh). Derry, Alice. Dick, James (Festival Hill). Dixon, John. Doggett, Lloyd. Donberg, Sharon. Donovan, Joal. D'Ordine, Helen. Doty, Mark. Dressler, Mylene (Guilford College). Dumitru, Crya (St. Mary's University). Dumoran[?], Adele (University of Hawai'i at Manoa). Durham, Daniel. Dwyer, Sue.
Edel, Marjorie. Edwards, Judy. Elliott, William (Bill). Ellsworth, Tom (The Madison Review). Enayetullah, Anwar. Erd, Wendy. Escalante, Jim (Iguana Press).
Faegre, Aron (Friends of Clyde Rice). Farabee, Mary Margaret and Ray. Fazzino, Carmela (Publicom). Feierman, Joanne. Ferrari, Ed and Patty. Field, Edward (Bantam Books). FitzGerald-Beckett, Zoe. Flato, Ted. Flesher, Vivienne, and Ward Schumaker. Flynn, Robert. Fontenot, Ken. Fountain, Carrie. Fowler, Sandra (Ocarina). Fox, John. Frasier, Debra. Frederick, Joan. Friedman, Gary.
Gallimaufry. Galvin, James (Jim) (University of Iowa). Ganesan, Indira. Gibbs, Gary (Texas Commission on the Arts). Gibson, Jewel. Gill, James. Glen, Bob (Shakespeare Festival of Dallas). Goldbarth, Albert. (Wichita State University and The University of Texas at Austin). Graham, Kerry. Graham, Mally. Gray, Patricia (Pat) S. Greenaway, Nancy Walker. Greene, D'Aine. Greene, Graham. Grissom, Coleen, (Trinity University). Grose, Rebecca. Grubin, David. Grubin, Joan. Guerrero, Laurie Ann (Smith College). Gundy, Jeff (Bluffton College). Gurovitsch, Robin and Timothy J. Daniels. Gutowski, Leila Said.
Haba, Jim and Erica. Hacker, Marilyn. Haller, Paul. Halpern, Daniel (Antaeus - Ecco Press). Hammad, Suheir. Hammill. Hancock, Tamara. Hanlon, Nöel and Peter Koehler. Hannush, Monica. Harjo, Joy (New Mexico Indian Environmental Education Project). Harst, Rudolf (Rudi)). Hass, Bob. Hassell, Billy. Haukio, Jenni. Haystack Writers, 2010. Hazo, Mary Anne. Hazo, Samuel. (International Poetry Forum). Hearn, Tony. Henkes, Kevin and Laura. Hepburn, Susan. Herring, Marquetta (Paperbacks Plus). Hewitt, Geof. Hillman, Grady. Hilal, Dima. Hinojosa, Tish (with Andreas Sedlmair). Hogan, Linda. Holman, Bill (Georgia State University). Holt, Pat. Howard, Barb and Dick. Howard, Debra. Hsieh, H. Phillip. Humphrey, Katharine. Hasan, Rabiul.
Personal correspondence that spans Hirsch's career at both University of Houston and Grinnell College. Includes letters from Nye to Hirsch and photographs.
Includes 22 poems by Huffstickler.
Ignatow, David (York College). Igne, Charles. Jackson, Bruce, 2011 (University at Buffalo). Jahn, Loretta. Jamal, Ghada. Janeczko, Paul B. Jennings, James Longstreet (J.L.) Sibley, Jr. Jepson-Gilbert, Anita. Jewish Women's Committee to End the Occupation of the West Bank & Gaza. Jiles, Paulette and Jim Johnson. Johnston, Tony. Jones, Sandy. Jones, Teresa. Judd, Raymond, Jr. (Trinity University). Junko, Yokota.
Ella. Kadri, Frank W. Kaplan, Kathy Walden. Kaufman, Amy R. Kaufman, Shirley. Kaywell, Joan. KAUST School (King Abdulla University of Science and Technology). Kelder, Cralan. Kelley, Deborah Maverick. Kennedy, Caroline. Kerr, Ken and Ann. Kessler, Stephen, November. Kestenbaum, Stu [Stuart] (Maine State Commission on the Arts and Humanities and Haystack Mountain School of Crafts). Khalife, Marcel (Nagam Cultural Program). Khan, Mobarak Hossain (Radio Bangladesh). Khan, Tamam. Kherdian, David. Khewhok, Carol (Shangri-La Center of Islamic Arts and Culture). Kicknosway, Faye. Kiepert Bücher. Kikutani, Naomi. Kim, Leo. King, Sam. Kitchen, Judith. Klunick, Travis. Knight, Etheridge. Knott, Mendy. Kumin, Maxine. Kyse, Helen.
LaBerge, David (Bard College at Simon's Rock). Landers, Joseph. Lannan, Camille. Lam,Thien-Kieu. Leach, Ann. Lehman (The Best American Poetry). Lee, Amy Freeman. Levine, Naomi. Likeness, Craig (Phi Beta Kappa). Lighthart, Annie. Lindberg, Stanley W. (The Georgia Review). Loeppert, Bessie. Long, Jim (Hawaii Review). Looney, George (Mid-American Review). Lopate, Phillip. Lueders, Edward. Luterman, Alison. Lynch, Robert L.K. Lyne, Sandy. Lynn, Kirk. Lyon, George Ella.
Mackechnie, Anne. Mackechnie, Bill. MacMillen, Ann. Maksoud, Hala (American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee). Maher, Terre. Majaj, Lisa Suhair. Manack, Jessica. Marans, Leonard. Marchant, Fred. Martinez, Dionisio. Mathers, Doug. Mathers, Petra. Mattawa, Khaled (Princeton University). Matthews, Joanne. Matthiessen, Maria and Peter. Maverick, Julia Orynski. Maynard, James (University of Buffalo).
McBride, Elizabeth (Domestic Crude). McCormack, Mary, Monique, Molly, Helen, and Luke. McCourt, Ellen Frey. McCracken, Elizabeth. McCrae, Fiona (Graywolf Press). McCrudden, Linda (Kaiser Permanente). McDermott, Karen. McDonald, Emily. McDonald, Rebecca (Becky). McDonald, Walter (Walt) (Texas Tech University). McElderry, Margaret. McKim, Elizabeth Gordon. McLaren, Olga. Melin, Jerry, (Scape). Merchant, Natalie. Miller, Debbie. Miller, E. Ethelbert. Miller, Nancy B. Milligan. Mills, Elizabeth (Betsey) (Southwest Review). Moore, Jim. Moore, Mary (Loon). Morales, Shelly (Driscoll ISD). Morfín, Otero and María Guadalupe. Motika, Stephen (Poets House). Moyers, Bill. Moyers, Judith. Mullen, Harryette. Mueller, Al. Myatt, Rosalind (Women's National Book Association).
Includes 2 optical disks.
Personal correspondence, nearly all contains articles written by Maverick (including a bio of Nye); also his obituary, correspondence from Nye, and Maverick correspondence to others aparently shared with Nye.
Naddy, Amro (Virginia Quarterly Review). Najjar, Nada (University of Toledo). Nathan, Leonard. Nansha China Preparatory Academy (NCPA). Nelson, Michael (Four Winds Press). Niehaus, Alisha (Simon & Schuster). Nims, John Frederick (Poetry). Noelke, Monte.
O, The Oprah Magazine. Obama, Barack. Obama, Michelle. Okamura, Larry. Ondaatje, Michael (York University). Orfalea, Greg, (American-Arab Anti-Discrimination League).
Padgett, Ron (Teachers & Writers Collaborative). Palmer, William (Bill) (Alma College). Pastiloff, Jennifer. Patterson, Becky Crouch. Paulo, Olivia. Payne, John R. Paz, Octavio. Peacock, Howard. The Perishable Press Limited. Perry, Janet. Peterson, Bob. Picozzi, Kim (Education Service Center, Region 2). Pierce, Jo Carol. Pirtle, Sarah. Peterson, Emma. Poets House. Pomelo Books (Sylvia Vardell and Janet Wong). Poteet, Scott. Qudsi, Adli. Qumsiyeh, Mazin.
Radmacher, Mary Ann. Ragain, Maj. Rao, Vimala R. Ray, Mary Lyn. Rice, Clyde. Rice, Clyde and Virginia. Richardson, Rebecca Hanson. Richter, Bob, Scottie, and Peter. Rief, Linda. Riley, Susan. Riordan, Rick. Rips, Geoff. Roberts, Doris. Robitaille, Claire. Rock, Andrew (Street Fiction Press). Rodriguez, Raquel Aurelia. Rodriguez, Rodrigo Joseph. Rosenblum, Gregg (Ploughshares). Rowell, Charles H., (Callaloo). Russelle, Regula (Cedar Fence Press).
Sahid, Leeshan. Said, Edward. Salahuddin, MD, (Karika). Salvner, Gary (Youngstown State University). Samdani, Hussain. Sandeen, Eric J. (University of Wyoming). Sarkar, Shihab (The New Nation). Saroyan, Aram. Saudi, Mona. Sawah, Rihab. Sawaya, Linda.
Schneeman, Andrea (Four Wind Press, Simon & Schuster). Schoenberger, Nancy, (The Academy of American Poets). Schulman, Grace. Schumaker, Ward (with Vivienne Flesher). Schroeder, Rubina. Self, Paul. Semel, Nava. Shah, Varsha. Shammas, Anton (University of Michigan). Shamsuzzaman, Abul Fazal. Shefrin, Susan Russell. Shelton, Lois (University of Arizona Poetry Center). Sherp. Shook, Eddie. Shulman, Alix Kates. Shunnarah, Nabella Salama.
Simmons, Naomi. Simonson, Rick. Simpson, Mona. Sisneros, Samuel. Smith, Austin. Smith, Curtis. Smith, Dave (William Morrow & Company, Inc.). Smith, Ileene (Summit Books). Somoza, Joseph (Puerto del Sol). Song, Cathy.
Spencer, Robert Nye. Spinelli, Eileen. Spinelli, Jerry. St. John, Rick. Stebbins, Christy. Steingesser, Martin. Steves, Patsy. Stewart, Frank (Manoa). Sulzer, Caroline. Sunico, RayVi. Sutton, Roger (The Horn Book, Inc.). Swaney, Anita. Sze, Arthur.
Taylor-Hall, Mary Ann. Temple, Charles. Theroux, Phyllis. Thomas, Sara. Thornhill, Elizabeth. Traugott, Alexander. Uschuk, Pamela and William Pitt Root. Valencia, Tita. Vens, Susie van de. Verde, Barbara. Villarreal, Marti (Arts America)
Waldman, Ana. Ward-Waller, Jeanie and Abbey Walker. Walker, William O. (Bill), Jr., (Trinity University). Wallace, Ian. Wallace, Ian and Deb. Wallace, Ron (University of Wisconsin - Madison). Walsh, Sandra (Duchesne Academy of the Sacred Heart). Way, Curtis (Harford Day School). Wendt, Ingrid. West, M[…], Wevill, David, Wheeler, Susan (Lewis Center for the Arts, Princeton University). White, Andrea. Wilbur, Ellen. Williams, David. Williams, Marilyn. Willihnganz, Jonah (Stanford University). Wilson, Eddie. Wiltgen, Michelle Elizabeth. Winger, Debra. Winik, Marion Lisa. Wittliff, William D. (Bill) (The Encino Press). Wolff, Virginia Euwer. Wood, Susan (Rice University). Woolman, Carol. Wrigley, Robert (Bob).
Yamanaka, Lois-Ann, 1992, 1994. Zisquit, Linda. Zoghaib, Henri. Zuck, Colleen, (Wee Wisdom).
Donnelly, Timothy (Poetry Society). Elleman, Barbara (Book Links). Gwynn, Sam (Lamar University). Jones, Margot C. Karl (Pitt Poetry Series). Karakashian, Levon. Landers, Ann. Madden, Hope. Merrill, Chris (Ars Poetica anthology). "To the Editor." Villareal, Marti (Arts America Program).
The bulk of the series is composed of correspondence between Naomi Shihab Nye and her parents, Aziz and Miriam Shihab. Also contains correspondence from Nye's husband, Michael Nye, and their son, Madison Cloudfeather Nye. Correspondents also include Mr. and Mrs. C.H. Allwardt (Miriam Nye's parents), Nina and Paul Nye (Michael Nye's parents), Ellen R. Fehr, a cousin, and Nye's brother Adlai and his wife Janis.
ncludes a translated letter from Yasir Arafat, and letters from Bonazzi and Merwin about the manuscript for Shihab's memoir Does the Land Remember Me?, and Bonazzi's review of the book in the San Antonio Express-News.
Miriam's letters chronicle a road trip across Colorado in 1965 and impressions of living in Palestine in the summer of 1966. Naomi's letters recount daily life while living in Lee's Summit, Missouri.
Correspondence contains multiple enclosures including photographs (one unidentified and one of Naomi Nye in 1979), religious meditations, and an undated prayer card.
The Instruction Series documents Nye's considerable teaching work for twelve years in public schools across Texas as part of the Texas Commission on the Arts Writers in the Schools Programs, and in other parts of the United States and particularly the Arabic-speaking world. The bulk of the materials consists of student poems, collected into photocopied or mimeographed publications, many from San Antonio Independent School District schools. Also included are single poems and songs, and student letters and poems, labeled "Testimonials," by Nye. Lesson plans include the "Rutabaga Roo" teacher packet that Nye shared with San Antonio public school teachers as well as many notes. Business Documents include a proposal, CV, reports to the Texas Commission on the Arts and Humanities, and clippings; Adult Instruction includes limited materials related to instruction at Haystack Program in the Arts, American Cultural Center Lahore, Palestine Poetry Festival, and the University of Hawai'i at Manoa, the University of Texas at San Antonio, and the University of Texas at Austin
Publication of Texas Commission on the Arts & Humanities. Includes student poems and short notes and photo of Nye.
"sometimes i feel like the whole world's a black tuxedo and i'm a pair of brown shoes," "Today Feels Like Frog Legs," "Earth Pizza," "Words from Woodridge," "around the world in an hour and a half"
"7 o'clock at San Patricio Street," "Thank You Earth for Holding Us Up," "Words from Woodridge"
"The Rainbow's Son and the Mermaid's Daughter," "My Head is Like a Spaceship," "The Heart Flies Home," "Corsicana Voices and Verse."
"Looking Back," "Rounding Up the Stars"
"Somebody's Story," "Anthology of Student Poems."
Oversized
Letters from students to Nye, most include poems or drawings.
Include poems or drawings
Include poems or drawings (King Abdullah University of Science and Technology)
Oversized
Student exercises and ideas.
Writings, exercises, ideas, notes. Includes lessons titled "Monday," "Tuesday," Haiku," "Poetry of Leadership," and loose notes.
Palestine Poetry Festival
University of Hawaii, University of Texas at San Antonio, University of Texas at Austin - Michener Center.
Writings on Shihab Nye contain clippings and articles newspapers and magazines. Materials are organized into Interviews, Catalogs, Promotion, Events, Reviews, Clippings, and Magazine Articles. The bulk of the materials are from the San Antonio Express-News and the Dallas Morning-News. Of note are articles documenting Nye's early career as traveling poet for schools in Texas, profiles from the towns where she led workshops and conferences, and local coverage from a 1984 trip to South America. Also included are unpublished papers and articles.
Oversized
The bulk of the articles are from the San Antonio Express-News and the Dallas Morning-News. Also included are articles tracing Nye's early career as traveling poet for schools in Texas, local coverage from a 1984 trip to South America, and profiles from the towns where she led workshops and conferences. Some articles are annotated by Nye and her father, Aziz Shihab.
Works by Others include musical and theatrical adaptations of Nye's works, Artist Files compiled by Shihab Nye, and Collected and Received materials. Artist Files include clippings on Ashley Bryan, who illustrated Salting the Ocean: 100 Poems by Young Poets. Artist Files also include drafts, clippings, publications, correspondence, and other materials by Texas writers Roberto Bonazzi, Sandra Cisneros, Albert Huffstickler, Jack Myers, John Phillip Santos, and San Antonio politician Maury Maverick, Jr. Also included are Michael Nye draft and article and considerable writings and correspondence by Nye's father Aziz Shihab. Note that these files organized by Nye are separate from letters found in Series III: Correspondence. Collected and received materials include chapbooks, exhibition catalogs, broadsides, publications, poems, prose, art, and various collected clippings and newspapers.
Joseph Landers
2 audio CDs and correspondence from Slomovits
Includes "Dog," "One Boy Told Me," "Mad," "She Tore a Map," and "Kindness."
"My Grandmother's Hands" and "The Art of Disappearing."
Program and DVD
Screenplay draft with annotations by Nye. Program and promotion.
Oversized clippings
Poems and chapbooks inscribed to Nye
Oversized clippings
Drafts, published writings, interview, DVD.
"I Believe," Gerald Stern
Optical disk and cassette tape
"Naomi Nye," Malon Flato
"Casa de Laurie," drawing in marker, 9/27/1987; pencil drawing, Marc Chates, Chartres, undated; print, Mona Saudi, "Woman-Bird," 21/50, 1982
The papers of reporter and publisher, Sam Kindrick, span 1934-2018, and are arranged into three series: Photographs, Personal Papers, and Action Magazine Records. Photographs comprise the bulk of the collection and number approximately 4,000. Most are photographs of artists and musicians from Kindrick's Action Magazine files that document a veritable "who's who" of local and touring performers who played in San Antonio and the region from 1975 to the mid 2010s.
The photographs are arranged alphabetically, and notable artists and personalities include Asleep at the Wheel, Moe Bandy, Johnny Bush, Johnny Cash, Hondo Crouch, Joe Ely, Freddy Fender, Kinky Friedman, John Lee Hooker, Waylon Jennings & Jessie Colter, Steve Jordan, Augie Meyers, Willie Nelson, Johnny Rodriguez, Leon Russell, Doug Sahm, Billy Joe Shave, Jimmy Spacek, and Jerry Jeff Walker. The Willie Nelson photographs are substantial in number, and of note are some images of his father, Ira, as well as images of each of the band members.
The photographs also document the unique culture of 1970s-1980s Texas and include files on armadillos; artists & craftsmen; beer; chili cookoffs; and politicians. In addition, there are a number of photographs of sports personalities, pool players, boxers, and dare devils.
And finally, the photographs include some of Sam Kindrick's personal and family photos, including some from Kindrick's childhood, school days, and early reporting career. Images of Kindrick with performers are filed with the respective performer's file, such as Kinky Friedman, Augie Meyers, Willie Nelson, and Jerry Jeff Walker.
The bulk of Kindrick's personal papers include clippings of his "Offbeat" column that appeared in the San Antonio Express News, 1968-1974. The column is a precursor to the work he would later do at Action Magazine, and the subjects are similar: music, culture, off-beat stories of sports, politics, and society.
The final series relates to Action Magazine itself and includes some artist press releases, advertising files, some layout pages, a wire newspaper stand, and a near-complete run of the newspaper from 1975-2018.
The photographs are arranged alphabetically, and notable artists and personalities include Asleep at the Wheel, Moe Bandy, Johnny Bush, Johnny Cash, Hondo Crouch, Joe Ely, Freddy Fender, Kinky Friedman, John Lee Hooker, Waylon Jennings & Jessie Colter, Steve Jordan, Augie Meyers, Willie Nelson, Johnny Rodriguez, Leon Russell, Doug Sahm, Billy Joe Shave, Jimmy Spacek, and Jerry Jeff Walker. The Willie Nelson photographs are substantial in number, and of note are some images of his father, Ira, as well as images of each of the band members. The photographs also document the unique culture of 1970s-1980s Texas and include files on armadillos; artists & craftsmen; beer; chili cookoffs; and politicians. In addition, there are a number of photographs of sports personalities, pool players, boxers, and dare devils. And finally, the photographs include some of Sam Kindrick's personal and family photos, including some from Kindrick's childhood, school days, and early reporting career. Images of Kindrick with performers are filed with the respective performer's file, such as Kinky Friedman, Augie Meyers, Willie Nelson, and Jerry Jeff Walker.
The bulk of Kindrick's personal papers include clippings of his "Offbeat" column that appeared in the San Antonio Express News, 1968-1974. The column is a precursor to the work he would later do at Action Magazine, and the subjects are similar: music, culture, off-beat stories of sports, politics, and society.
These series relates to Action Magazine itself and includes some artist press releases, advertising files, some layout pages, a wire newspaper stand, and a near-complete run of the newspaper from 1975-2018
This series contains the oversized material in the collection, including photographs, layout designs, and broadsides.
This series contains a near-complete run of the newspaper from 1975-2018.
This series contains the artifacts relating to Action Magazine.
It's Only Rock 'N' Roll was an indie music newspaper published in San Antonio from May 1978 to April 1982. The publication chronicled the rise of punk and New Wave music in San Antonio and Austin, reporting on national touring acts like Blondie, Elvis Costello, Patti Smith, the Ramones, the Clash and the Sex Pistols, as well as local and regional rock 'n' roll, blues and heavy metal acts. Issues included record reviews, guest columns, nightclub listings and numerous photographs. Included here are 44 issues, from March 18, 1978 through April 1982. Note: The November 1980 issue was mislabeled as Volume 4, number 8.
Printed material, correspondences, photographs, scrapbooks, awards, personal files, 1920's to 2003, document the life and activities of Maury Maverick Jr. Organized into series for photographs, correspondences, biographical material, Israel, and written works by Maverick. Within the photographic series there are family photographs, photos of Maury Maverick Sr. with prominent political figures such as Lyndon Baines Johnson, military photographs, and photos from the life of Maury Maverick Jr.
The correspondences series consists of correspondences written to Maverick, correspondences about Maverick, and correspondences from Maverick. The biographical material series is the largest series of works, consisting of scrapbooks, information on his death including funeral programs and newspaper articles, collected newspaper clippings, military papers, a personal account book, awards and certificates, collected items from travels such as a tote bag and a book, and published works written about Maury Maverick Jr.
Of note is the Israel series, which consists of newspaper clippings, letters, opinion pieces, and notes by and about Maverick and his advocacy for Palestine in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. This scope of this series is between 1992 and 1998. The final series is a collection of much of the work published by Maury Maverick Jr. in the San Antonio Express News between the 1980's and 2003, as well as some personal research he used when writing pieces and working as a lawyer. Not present in the collection is his work and papers as a lawyer during the 1960's and 1970's nor his papers from when he was active in politics in between the 1940's and 1960's.
This series includes family photographs, photos of Maury Maverick Sr. with prominent political figures such as Lyndon Baines Johnson, military photographs, and photos from the life of Maury Maverick Jr..
The correspondences series consists of letters written to, about, and from Maverick.
The biographical material series is the largest series of works, consisting of scrapbooks, information on his death including funeral programs and newspaper articles, collected newspaper clippings, military papers, a personal account book, awards and certificates, collected items from travels such as a tote bag and a book, and published works written about Maury Maverick Jr.
Newspaper clippings, printed material, and a copy of Nucleaus magazine (1994)
The Israel series consists of newspaper clippings, letters, opinion pieces, and notes by and about Maverick and his advocacy for Palestine in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
This series is comprised of writings published by Maury Maverick Jr. in the San Antonio Express News between the 1980's and 2003, as well as some personal research he used when writing pieces and working as a lawyer.
This collection contains papers by and about Frank Waters and some associates connected to Waters. The bulk of the collection concerns papers related to the Frank Waters Foundation and its activities. The collection is organized into six series: Correspondence, Writings by Frank Waters, Writings about Frank Waters, The Frank Waters Foundation, Frank Waters' Associates, Other Writings, Oversized, and Artifacts.
Series 1, Correspondence (box 1), includes letters to and from Frank Waters, as well as correspondence of Barbara Waters. Spans 1948 - 2006, organized chronologically.
Series 2, Writings by Frank Waters (box 1), contains various writings from 1950 - 1993, with the bulk spanning from 1950 - 1951 with some undated materials. This series also includes photocopies of El Crepusculo from 1950 - 1951 during which time Frank Waters was editor. Items are arranged chronologically.
Series 3, Writings about Frank Waters (box 1), concerns various writings about Frank Waters and his works. This includes, but is not limited to, articles about Frank Waters, reviews of his works, memorial articles discussing the life and legacy of Waters. Items are arranged chronologically.
Series 4, Frank Waters Foundation (box 2 - 4), comprises the bulk of the collection and contains materials related to the Frank Waters Foundation and the Frank Waters Society. This series is further subdivided into five subseries: Operations, Newsletters, Website, Tributes, and Conferences/Workshops. Operations contains various operational materials including a master list of members as of September 2005. Newsletters are dated from 1993-2006. The Website subseries contains a printout of the Sheltering the Creative Spirit as it appeared as of January 23, 2002. The Tributes subseries concerns materials related to events held in Frank Waters' honor such as invitations and itineraries of the events. Finally, the Conferences/Workshops contain materials concerning academic conferences such as Studies in Frank Waters (1982 - 1992), and other workshops at least partly organized by the Frank Waters Foundation. All materials are organized chronologically within their subseries.
Series 5, Frank Waters' Associates (box 4), concerns materials associated with Frank Waters and the Frank Waters Foundation, Alexander Blackburn, Geoffrey and Mary Torrence, and Barbara Waters, Frank Waters' wife. These are organized chronologically within their grouping.
Series 6, Other Writings (box 4), contains writings that do not specifically address Frank Waters, but are related to themes and other topics of interest within the collection.
Series 7, Oversized (box 5), comprises of three photographs of Frank Waters, photocopies of El Crepusculo from September 1949 - December 1950, a copy of Tempo from July 1992.
Series 8, Artifacts (box 6), consists of five bronze statues, including one of his face and two of his writing hand.
Correspondence (box 1), Includes correspondence of Frank Waters, as well as letters to and from Barbara Waters. Spans 1948 - 2006, organized chronologically.
Contains various writings from 1950 - 1993, with the bulk spanning from 1950 - 1951 with some undated materials. This series also includes photocopies of El Crepusculo from 1950 - 1951 during which time Frank Waters was editor. Items are arranged chronologically.
Concerns various writings about Frank Waters and his works. This includes, but is not limited to, articles about Frank Waters, reviews of his works, memorial articles discussing the life and legacy of Waters. Items are arranged chronologically.
This series the bulk of the collection and contains materials related to the Frank Waters Foundation and the Frank Waters Society. This series is further subdivided into five subseries: Operations, Newsletters, Website, Tributes, and Conferences/Workshops. Operations contains various operational materials including a master list of members as of September 2005.
Newsletters are dated from 1993-2006. The Website subseries contains a printout of the Sheltering the Creative Spirit as it appeared as of January 23, 2002. The Tributes subseries concerns materials related to events held in Frank Waters' honor such as invitations and itineraries of the events.
Finally, the Conferences/Workshops contain materials concerning academic conferences such as Studies in Frank Waters (1982 - 1992), and other workshops at least partly organized by the Frank Waters Foundation. All materials are organized chronologically within their subseries.
This series concerns materials associated with Frank Waters and the Frank Waters Foundation, Alexander Blackburn, Geoffrey and Mary Torrence, and Barbara Waters, Frank Waters' wife. These are organized chronologically within their grouping.
New Mexico's Newsmonthly: Crosswinds, Volume IV, Number IV March/April 1992
Journeys: A Literary Magazine, with Frank Waters pictured on the front, Spring 1993
Hoka Hey Winter Issue, 1990
This series comprises oversized photographs and newspapers relating to Frank Waters.
This series contains artifacts relating to Frank Waters.
The Ramón Hernández Tejano Music Collection spans 1922-2019, with the bulk of materials ranging from 1985-2019, the period when Hernández was most active in the Tejano music industry. The collection is divided into 12 series as seen below. Researchers are urged to look at each series, as material about individual musicians may be found in multiple locations.
A quick note on terminology. The initials RH are used frequently to denote material that is either created by or related to Hernández himself. The material described as "mounted" in the finding aid indicates that it is affixed on foamcore and was likely once displayed.
I. Artist Files
II. Posters and Oversize Materials
III. Record Labels
IV. Media Outlets
V. Ramón Hernández Research Files
VI. Awards
VII. Events
VIII. Merchandise
IX. Promotional Material
X. Publications
XI. Costumes
XII. Artifacts/Framed material
Series Descriptions
Series I: Artists Files, 1922-2019, undated
Boxes 1-155
Artist Files comprise the bulk of the collection. The files are separated into Male Artist Files and Female Artist Files to maintain Hernández's original order. Both series are then arranged alphabetically by artist last name or band name. Although the series is titled Artists Files, there are also entrepreneurs, community leaders, promoters, street performers, and many others represented.
The material found in each artist file varies greatly. For artists that Hernández worked with, there are typically hundreds of his photographs (both portraits and of performances), drafts of publicity material, and design ideas for album covers. The contents of larger files are typically sorted into the following broader subseries: Personal, Photographs, Concert and Event Publicity, Albums, Publicity, Ramón Hernández Material, Clippings, Audiovisual material, and Promotional Material. Note: not every artist file has each type of material.
• Personal includes autographs, business cards, correspondence, and other such material.
• Photographs consist of both snapshots and portraits (most taken by Hernández) along with publicity photographs.
• Concert and Event Publicity consists of tickets, flyers, publicity cards, programs, and other publicity material for concerts and other events.
• Albums can consist of album covers ranging from 45 records to CDs and also publicity materials for particular albums.
• Publicity contains press releases, artist biographies, press kits, and any other material that could be seen as promoting the artist.
• Ramón Hernández Material is anything that Hernández created about the artist, including, but not limited to, article and artist biography drafts, design ideas for albums and publicity material, and correspondence.
• Clippings the majority of clippings come from the San Antonio Express-News, La Prensa de San Antonio, and Street Talk, however there are some national, and a few international clippings, especially for Little Joe Hernandez. Published articles by Hernández are also found here.
• Audiovisual Material typically contains promotional CDs or cassettes.
The initials RH found in smaller files, denote that the item is either created by or related to Hernández
There is also a small subseries includes oversize portraits of artists (many taken by Hernández). The arrangement mimics the arrangement of the previous series by separating the male and female artists and then arranging the portraits alphabetically.
Series II: Posters and Oversized Materials, 1948-2018, undated
Boxes 156-164 and map case drawers 36-44
This series can be seen as a continuation of the Artists Files, but with material that does not fit in standard document boxes. There are two exceptions to this: the majority of boxes, including the oversized ones, for Little Joe Hernandez (boxes 33-46) and Selena (boxes 121-142) are housed within Series I: Artists Files due to the sheer quantity of material, but as with all artists, materials related to them can be found in many series.
As mentioned, mounted posters are those adhered to foamcore for easier display, possibly for exhibit in Hernández's Hispanic Entertainment Archive.
This series is divided into Artist Posters, Mounted Posters, Concert Posters, and Oversized Material
• Artist Posters (boxes 156-161) are separated into male and female artists and then arranged alphabetically. The majority of the material found in the series are posters, advertisements and other publicity material, and LP record covers. Many are signed by the artist.
• Oversized Posters are separated into male and female artists and arranged alphabetically and housed in map case drawers.
• Concert Posters (Boxes 161-163 and oversized) span 1948-2018 and are arranged chronologically. Oversized concert posters are housed in the map cases.
• Oversized Material (Box 164 and oversized) includes advertisements, clippings, and mounted photographs, clippings, advertisements and is arranged alphabetically by artist. The majority of the material is housed in the map cases.
Series III: Record Labels, 1950-2016, undated
Boxes 165-171
Arranged alphabetically by record label, this series contains promotional material, business documents, and catalogs from prominent Tejano record labels. Hacienda Records is particularly well-represented. Also, of note is correspondence from Carmen Marroquin (of the sister musical act Carmen and Laura) whose husband Armando Marroquin founded Ideal Records.
Series IV: Media Outlets, 1964-2014, undated
Boxes 172-177
The bulk of the series is radio station press kits and promotional material. There are a small number of TV stations, news outlets, and film production companies also included. The many radio station coverage maps that span all across Texas are unexpected highlights of this series.
 Series V: Ramón Hernández Material, 1972-2017, undated
Boxes 178-180
Included are Hernández's research files, calendar with appointments, and oversize material, including a sign for the Hispanic Entertainment Hall of Fame exhibit and a foamcore exhibit display.
 Series VI: Awards, 1979-2017, undated
Boxes 181-192
Arranged alphabetically by award ceremony name, and then chronologically. Publicity material for music award ceremonies, such as the Grammys, Latin Grammys, Tejano Music Awards, and Noche de Fiesta Tejana comprise the bulk of this series. Of note are the business records of the Texas Talent Musicians Association as they created the Tejano Music Awards. Boxes 189-192 contain awards, arranged chronologically.
Series VII: Events, 1982-2018, undated
Boxes 193-196
This series contains photographs, schedules, publicity material, and clippings for events and conferences. The Tejano Conjunto Festival is particularly well-represented. It is arranged alphabetically, and then chronologically.
Series VIII: Merchandise, 1987-2018, undated
Boxes 197-205
Arranged alphabetically by artist, the bulk of the series are commemorative t-shirts. There is a small collection of other branded clothing that includes hats, patches, and women's underwear.
Series IX: Promotional Material, 1990-1998, [bulk undated]
Boxes 206-216
This series consists of promotional material from various radio stations, record labels, and other companies such as pens and pencils, keychains, and even maracas. There is also a considerable selection of promotional cups and mugs, many that commemorate concerts and festivals.
Series X: Publications, 1981-2016, undated
Boxes 217-222
Arranged alphabetically by title, and then chronologically. Unless noted, all are full issues. Publications with longer runs (including Latin Connection, Street Talk, Que Onda, Nuestra Musica, and TGN) have been added to the Wittliff's book collection to be cataloged and are available for use onsite.
Series XI: Costumes, undated
Items 001-104
Costumes are arranged alphabetically by artist. Many of the costumes were worn on stage and range from the highly elaborate and detailed to a more Western-influenced style. Some of the many highlights are an intricately beaded dress worn by Rosita Fernandez, multiple custom-made jumpsuits worn by Little Joe Hernandez, a multicolored sequined jacket with pink satin pants worn by Jamie De Anda, a faux leather jacket emblazoned with "Rockstar Angel" worn by Shelley Lares, and a pink Western-style button-down shirt with red acid-washed jeans worn by Emilio Navaira. There is also a small number of T-shirts worn by artists, some with political or activist messages.
The subseries of costume accessories is further separated into hats, shoes, and miscellaneous accessories, including Freddie Martinez's ties, Emilio Navaira's belt with a belt buckle, Oscar Martinez's sunglasses, and Steve Jordan's eyepatch.
Series XII: Artifacts and Framed Material, 1983-1997, undated
Arranged alphabetically by artist. The artifacts include Hugo Guerrero's accordion and instrument cases and a public address speaker signed by Michael Salgado and Isidro "El Indio" Lopez, respectively. There is also a life-size cardboard cut-out Coca-Cola advertisement featuring Selena and two cardboard movie posters for the Selena film.
Framed material includes paintings, photographs, and posters. Rosita Fernandez is particularly well-represented with a portrait painted by Frank Puente Harris, an illustrated song dedicated to her by David Kresh, and an event poster for her 60th Anniversary at La Villita Assembly Hall. There are also posters of Freddie Martinez and Selena. As well as a framed copy of Siempre Tu Eres CD by Jackie y Los Romanticos. It is also arranged alphabetically by artist.
Series I: Artists Files, 1922-2019, undated Boxes 1-155
Artist Files comprise the bulk of the collection. The files are separated into Male Artist Files and Female Artist Files to maintain Hernández's original order. Both series are then arranged alphabetically by artist last name or band name. Although the series is titled Artists Files, there are also entrepreneurs, community leaders, promoters, street performers, and many others represented.
The material found in each artist file varies greatly. For artists that Hernández worked with, there are typically hundreds of his photographs (both portraits and of performances), drafts of publicity material, and design ideas for album covers. The contents of larger files are typically sorted into the following broader subseries: Personal, Photographs, Concert and Event Publicity, Albums, Publicity, Ramón Hernández Material, Clippings, Audiovisual material, and Promotional Material. Note: not every artist file has each type of material.
• Personal includes autographs, business cards, correspondence, and other such material.
• Photographs consist of both snapshots and portraits (most taken by Hernández) along with publicity photographs.
• Concert and Event Publicity consists of tickets, flyers, publicity cards, programs, and other publicity material for concerts and other events.
• Albums can consist of album covers ranging from 45 records to CDs and also publicity materials for particular albums.
• Publicity contains press releases, artist biographies, press kits, and any other material that could be seen as promoting the artist.
• Ramón Hernández Material is anything that Hernández created about the artist, including, but not limited to, article and artist biography drafts, design ideas for albums and publicity material, and correspondence.
• Clippings the majority of clippings come from the San Antonio Express-News, La Prensa de San Antonio, and Street Talk, however there are some national, and a few international clippings, especially for Little Joe Hernandez. Published articles by Hernández are also found here.
• Audiovisual Material typically contains promotional CDs or cassettes.
The initials RH found in smaller files, denote that the item is either created by or related to Hernández
There is also a small subseries includes oversize portraits of artists (many taken by Hernández). The arrangement mimics the arrangement of the previous series by separating the male and female artists and then arranging the portraits alphabetically.
Series II: Posters and Oversized Materials, 1948-2018, undated
Boxes 156-164 and map case drawers 36-44
This series can be seen as a continuation of the Artists Files, but with material that does not fit in standard document boxes. There are two exceptions to this: the majority of boxes, including the oversized ones, for Little Joe Hernandez (boxes 33-46) and Selena (boxes 121-142) are housed within Series I: Artists Files due to the sheer quantity of material, but as with all artists, materials related to them can be found in many series.
As mentioned, mounted posters are those adhered to foamcore for easier display, possibly for exhibit in Hernández's Hispanic Entertainment Archive.
This series is divided into Artist Posters, Mounted Posters, Concert Posters, and Oversized Material
• Artist Posters (boxes 156-161) are separated into male and female artists and then arranged alphabetically. The majority of the material found in the series are posters, advertisements and other publicity material, and LP record covers. Many are signed by the artist.
• Oversized Posters are separated into male and female artists and arranged alphabetically and housed in map case drawers.
• Concert Posters (161-163 and oversized) span 1948-2018 and are arranged chronologically. Oversized concert posters are housed in the map cases.
• Oversized Material (Box 164 and oversized) includes advertisements, clippings, and mounted photographs, clippings, advertisements and is arranged alphabetically by artist. The majority of the material is housed in the map cases.
Series III: Record Labels, 1950-2016,undated
Boxes 165-171
Arranged alphabetically by record label, this series contains promotional material, business documents, and catalogs from prominent Tejano record labels. Hacienda Records is particularly well-represented. Also,of note is correspondence from Carmen Marroquin (of the sister musical act Carmen and Laura) whose husband Armando Marroquin founded Ideal Records.
Series IV: Media Outlets, 1964-2014, undated
Boxes 172-177
The bulk of the series is radio station press kits and promotional material. There are a small number of TV stations, news outlets, and film production companies also included. The many radio station coverage maps that span all across Texas are unexpected highlights of this series.
Series V: Ramón Hernández Material, 1972-2017, undated
Boxes 178-180
Included are Hernández's research files, calendar with appointments, hard drive, and oversize material, including a sign for the Hispanic Entertainment Hall of Fame exhibit and a foamcore exhibit display.
Series VI: Awards, 1979-2017, undated
Boxes 181-192
Arranged alphabetically by award ceremony name, and then chronologically. Publicity material for music award ceremonies, such as the Grammys, Latin Grammys, Tejano Music Awards, and Noche de Fiesta Tejana comprise the bulk of this series. Of note are the business records of the Texas Talent Musicians Association as they created the Tejano Music Awards. Boxes 189-192 contain awards, arranged chronologically.
Series VII: Events, 1982-2018, undated
Boxes 193-196
This series contains photographs, schedules, publicity material, and clippings for events and conferences. The Tejano Conjunto Festival is particularly well-represented. It is arranged alphabetically, and then chronologically.
Series VIII: Merchandise, 1987-2018, undated
Boxes 197-205
Arranged alphabetically by artist, the bulk of the series are commemorative t-shirts. There is a small collection of other branded clothing that includes hats, patches, and women's underwear.
Series IX: Promotional Material, 1990-1998, [bulk undated]
Boxes 206-216
This series consists of promotional material from various radio stations, record labels, and other companies such as pens and pencils, keychains, and even maracas. There is also a considerable selection of promotional cups and mugs, many that commemorate concerts and festivals.
Series X: Publications, 1981-2016, undated
Boxes 217-222
Arranged alphabetically by title, and then chronologically. Unless noted, all are full issues. Publications with longer runs (including Latin Connection, Street Talk, Que Onda, Nuestra Musica, and TGN have been added to the Wittliff's book collection to be cataloged and are available for use onsite.
Series XI: Costumes, undated
Items 001-104
Costumes are arranged alphabetically by artist. Many of the costumes were worn on stage and range from the highly elaborate and detailed to a more Western-influenced style. Some of the many highlights are an intricately beaded dress worn by Rosita Fernandez, multiple custom-made jumpsuits worn by Little Joe Hernandez, a multicolored sequined jacket with pink satin pants worn by Jamie De Anda, a faux leather jacket emblazoned with "Rockstar Angel" worn by Shelley Lares, and a pink Western-style button-down shirt with red acid-washed jeans worn by Emilio Navaira. There is also a small number of T-shirts worn by artists, some with political or activist messages.
The subseries of costume accessories is further separated into hats, shoes, and miscellaneous accessories, including Freddie Martinez's ties, Emilio Navaira's belt with a belt buckle, Oscar Martinez's sunglasses, and Steve Jordan's eyepatch.
Series XII: Artifacts and Framed Material, 1983-1997, undated
Arranged alphabetically by artist. The artifacts include Hugo Guerrero's accordion and instrument cases and a public address speaker signed by Michael Salgado and Isidro "El Indio" Lopez, respectively. There is also a life-size cardboard cut-out Coca-Cola advertisement featuring Selena and two cardboard movie posters for the Selena film.
Framed material includes paintings, photographs, and posters. Rosita Fernandez is particularly well-represented with a portrait painted by Frank Puente Harris, an illustrated song dedicated to her by David Kresh, and an event poster for her 60th Anniversary at La Villita Assembly Hall. There are also posters of Freddie Martinez and Selena. As well as a framed copy of Siempre Tu Eres CD by Jackie y Los Romanticos. It is also arranged alphabetically by artist.
The Sergio Troncoso Papers span 1975-2020 and are arranged into six series: Personal Papers, Published Work, Publications, Publicity, Reader Correspondence, and Digital Objects. The bulk of the collection is drafts of his early work, including The Last Tortilla and Other Stories, The Nature of Truth Crossing Borders: Personal Essays, and From This Wicked Patch of Dust. Also of note are his early writings, especially his academic essays from his graduate school studies at Yale. The collection was donated by Troncoso, and many items in the collection have a handwritten note by him explaining its significance.
This series includes a medal Troncoso won in grade school, a full year run of Pow-Wow (the high school paper he was editor of at Ysleta High School), and name badges from Harvard reunions. Of particular note are Troncoso's handwritten college application essays and academic papers from his studies at Harvard and Yale.
This series contains drafts of Troncoso's published works and makes up the bulk of the collection. The series is arranged chronologically beginning with The Last Tortilla and Other Stories (1999) and ending with From This Wicked Patch of Dust (2011). The Nature of Truth (2003; 2014) is particularly well-represented with multiple drafts, many with Troncoso's handwritten edits. Also of note is the 1987 copy of the short story "The Abuelita" which later appeared in The Last Tortilla and Other Stories
Many stories in The Last Tortilla and Other Stories and Crossing Borders: Personal Essays were first published in these publications. It is arranged chronologically
This series is separated into three subseries: Appearances, Clippings, and Magazines.
Appearances (1999-2020, undated) contains flyers, programs, and brochures of Troncoso's many appearances at festivals and events. Of particular note is a souvenir from the 2003 Hispanic Scholarship Fund Alumni Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony that includes a video of the event where Troncoso won the Brilliante award.
Clippings (1975-2011, undated) predominately contains newspaper articles both about and by Troncoso and are arranged chronologically. The articles range from a 1975 piece about Troncoso winning a math competition (the medal he won is in the collection) to later reviews of his works and opinion pieces penned by Troncoso. There is one work of fiction included in the series: a story co-written with Christine Lehner in the October 2, 2003 issue of The Journal News.
Magazines (1997-2008) includes full magazine issues with articles about Troncoso and his work. These are also arranged chronologically.
Reflecting the impact his writing has had on young readers, these are primarily thank-you letters written to Troncoso from students whose schools he had visited. The letters from Bon View Elementary School in Ontario, California are particularly poignant due to Troncoso's aunt, a longtime teacher's aide at that school, having recently passed away.
This series contains both computer disks with drafts of Troncoso's work and also the contents of a USB drive (113 digital photographs, 2 videos, and 4 documents).
The Sipper Collection is comprised of over 100 letters from Larry McMurtry to Ralph Sipper ranging from 1982-2018. Arranged chronologically, they document McMurtry's practice of and thoughts on book selling and buying. Frequent topics include the sale of screenplays, his work in the film business, and mutual acquaintances in the literary world.
This small collection contains materials on Cormac McCarthy and his work, including magazines, various newspaper clippings, photocopies of work and reviews, and printouts from the "Cormac McCarthy Home Pages."
Small Manuscript Collections consists of material acquired by the Wittliff either through gift or purchase that are not part of larger collections. They are often individual items or small groups of items relating to a particular author, musician, photographer, or topic. Types of material include: manuscripts; letters; photographs; ephemera such as pamphlets, brochures or catalogs; reports; historical documents; and other printed material. Each item or group of items is assigned a unique number such as SMC-0001, SMC-0002, SMC-0003, etc. that serves as the call number for the respective small collection.
Magazines and zines related to Austin's punk music scene of the early 1980's
Documents relating to Alfred Benjamin Fontaine Kerr, Methodist minister and first mayor of San Marcos
Transcripts of interviews with multiple individuals about the Lubbock, Texas music history. Interviewees/subjects include Lloyd Maines, Jo Carol Pierce, Waylon Jennings, Angela Strehli, Delbert McClinton, Terry Allen, Joe Ely, Jimmy Dale Gilmore, and Butch Hancock among others.
Materials relating to the production of The Red Headed Stranger. Connie Todd was casting director and director's assistant. Wittliff was the screenwriter, director, and co-executive producer.
Materials from "Women of Texas Monthly", a project developed by Suzanne Winckler.
This collection includes editorial files for Texas Monthly issues. The files are arranged chronologically by issue (Date, Year) and are described at the box-level. Files for a particular issue may be housed across several boxes.
Content of the files per issue vary, but most include fact-check files, author research and notes, inter-office memos, and other materials generated in the composition and publication of feature articles for a particular issue of the magazine.
Following the chronological issue files are a selection of files from a selection of individual writers. And finally, there are other editorial files that contain story ideas, correspondence, and other materials.
Materials pertaining to Beverly Lowry's writing career. Items included are: manuscripts, galleys, subject interviews, reviews, notes, research material, photographs, correspondence, newspaper clippings, books, magazines, journals, and scrapbooks.
Archival materials following the creation of Beverly Lowry's book Who Killed These Girls? Cold Case: the Yogurt Shop Murders that will be released October 11, 2016. The publication pertains to the 1991 Yogurt Shop Murders of Amy Ayers, Jennifer Harbison, Sarah Harbison, and Eliza Thomas at the "I Can't Believe It's Yogurt!" shop in Austin, Texas. Included are materials for research such as news articles from Austin American-Statesman, The Austin Chronicle and Austin News8; Austin Police Department and court documents; and manuscript drafts of the book. The folder titles preceding a colon reflect Lowry's original descriptions.
Multiple accessions from Cormac McCarthy scholar, John Emil Sepich, documenting McCarthy's work, notably Blood Meridian. Includes correspondence and writings from other other McCarthy scholars and translators.
One essay, "Knitting the Winds," by John Sepich.
Two essays, "Why Believed the Judge?" and "Knitting the Winds," both by John Sepich.
One booklet, "Notes on Blood Meridian," by John Sepich
Collection of materials relating to John Sepich's study of Cormac McCarthy's novel, Blood Meridian, and other materials relating to Notes on Blood Meridian by Sepich. Items include: manuscripts, drafts, correspondence, research materials, notes, and copy of Sepich's thesis.
Materials relating to The University of Texas Press. Sepich has written notes for each section in quotations marks, followed by a description of the contents.
Notes and correspondence relating to Cormac McCarthy's Blood Meridian.
Material from the first Cormac McCarthy Conference held at Bellarmine College, Louisville, Kentucky, 1993. Also includes a poem and essay by Sepich.
Two early copies of Sepich's "Notes on Blood Meridian."
Correspondence between Sepich and Connie Todd, Wes Morgan, and Peter Josyph.
Correspondence from Sepich to Connie Todd and from Cormac McCarthy to Sepich. Includes appraisal by John Payne. Also included are essays by Sepich.
Correspondence between Sepich and Portuguese writer Paulo Faria who translated several of Cormac McCarthy's works into Portuguese. Also included is one print of McCarthy by artist Palmer Murphy.
Sepich correspondence and writings.
Materials relating to foreign language translations of McCarthy's work.
Multiple accessions from Author, Mike Cox, document his wrting career as well as his decades of reviewing books for The Austin-American Statesman. The material includes extensive research for books on the Texas Rangers.
Material consists of numerous newspaper clippings, correspondence, drafts, galleys and proofs of material written by Cox, promotional materials for books, newsletters, and some notes from early college courses in journalism and photography. Material relates to Texana column written by Cox and to his position at DPS in medial relations. When possible, original file names are used and are indicated in quotation marks. Accession contains 133 photos and 3 color slides. A majority of the photos are of authors and were part of new book announcements. A portion of the material is from Betty Cox whose files consist mainly of correspondence, research notes and drafts, all related to Bob Jamison's book Airplanes, Alligators and Hi-fin Blues.
Archival materials following the research of writer, Mike Cox, on the Texas Rangers. This collection is made up of government documents, drafts, stories, Ranger records, obituaries, and biographies of hundreds of former Rangers. The research begins right after the civil war up until the early 2000s.
Multiple accessions from music writer, John T Davis include a wide expanse of Davis's articles from 1980-2010, including articles from Davis's music column in the Austin-American Statesman and extensive subject files. Also present are numerous files from SXSW and ACL, as well as manuscript drafts and other materials relating to Davis's book, Austin City Limits: 25 Years of Music.
Newspaper articles, SXSW and ACL programs, and drafts for the John T. Davis archive. This collection includes a wide expanse of Davis's articles from 1980-2010, including articles from Davis's music review column in the Austin-American Statesman. This collection also contains official SXSW and ACL music and program guides, as well as drafts of Davis's comprehensive ACL book, Austin City Limits: 25 Years of Music.
Additions to the John T. Davis Accessions include his extensive subject files, arranged alphabetically by artist. Contents vary, but typically include promotional photographs, Davis' writings and interview notes, press releases, newspaper clippings, and other ephemera. Not everything in the folders is listed below, but when they exist, photos, interviews, and select items are noted. Folders titles are Davis'.
Asleep at the Wheel, May 2018; Kenny Rogers, February 26, 2017; Jeff McCord, KUTX-FM music director, January 22, 2014; Amos Traystman, Nightowls guitarist, January 24, 2014; Jill and Heidi, January 22, 2014; Ryan Harkrider, Nightowl for Austin Monthly, January 21, 2014; James White, June 10, 2013; Old Settlers list, 1999-2011
Karen Brooks – 3 photographs (2 with Randy Sharp); Sarah Elizabeth Campbell – 3 photographs; Mary Chapin Carpenter – 6 photographs; Johnny Cash – 6 photographs (1 with the Highwaymen); Bobby Charles; The Chieftains; Albert Collins
Ronnie Dawson; Bo Diddley; The Dirty Dozen Brass Band; Dr. John – 2 photographs; Betty Elders; Ramblin' Jack Elliott; Evangeline; Chris Gaffney; High Noon – 2 photographs; Etta James – 3 photographs; George Jones – 6 photographs; Norah Jones – 2 photographs
Alison Krauss – 4 photographs and 1 slide; Shelly Lares – 2 photographs; Los Lobos – 5 photographs; Shelby Lynne; Kathy Mattea – 2 photographs; The Mavericks – 5 photographs
Katy Mofatt – 3 photographs (1 signed); Bill Monroe; Patsy Montana – 2 photographs; Allison Moorer – 2 photographs; Maura O'Connell; Roy Orbison, Buck Owens; Dolly Parton – 2 photographs; George Porter, Jr. – 2 photographs; Bonnie Raitt; Traveling Wilburys
Photographs of Texas musicians while in concert, taken by Michael Frederick in venues around Central Texas.
Both black and white and color photographs of Texas musicians while in concert, taken by Michael Frederick includes Max Stalling, Wade Bowen, Blacktop Gypsy, Emory Quinn, Roger Creager, Ray Price and others. Other materials include two set lists, one Max Stalling poster and one DVD-R with photographs taken between January 2010 and April 2011. The photographs were taken at John T. Floore's Country Store in Helotes, River Road Ice House in New Braunfels, and Cowboy Dance Hall in San Antonio, all in Texas. A few of the photographs have been signed by the musician in the photo.
Texas music ephemera.
Additions documenting the writing career of James Crumley with added notes and content by screenwriter and first wife, Martha Elizabeth.
Personal papers of author James Crumley. These items were collected from his home and reflect Crumley's professional writing career and personal life. This collection includes multiple drafts of Crumley's screenplays and novels, international translations, and publicity; some writings by other authors; drawings and work by Crumley's first wife, Martha Elizabeth; correspondence; a sampling of documents that reflect his medical and financial history; reviews; publicity; photographs; office files; contracts; books; and personal artifacts.
Sumner's literary papers detail the many topics she reported on during her career, circa 1973-2015, which paralleled the rise of a viable Texas film industry. Included are college writings, newspapers with published articles, VHS tapes, microcassette tapes, interview cassette tapes (with subjects such as Bill Wittliff, Richard Linklater, Robert Duvall, Sissy Spacek, etc.), original drafts, and interview transcripts. The folder titles preceding a colon reflect Sumner's original description.
Biographical sketches of notable women such as Jane Wilkinson Long, EBJ Commencement Speech, Pearl S. Buck, Cynthia Ann Parker, Elizabeth Blackwell M.D., Sissy Farenthold, Mary McLeod Bethune, Lady Bird Johnson, Babe Zaharias, Emily Dickinson, Abigail Adams, Vilma Martinez, Mary Austin Holly, Clare Booth Luce, Martha Graham, Mother Jones, Lucy Stone, Calamity Jane, Oveta Culp Hobby, Marry Cassatt, Barbara Jordan, Louisa May Alcott, Mary Baker Eddy, Billie Holiday, Jane Adams, Francis Perkins, Mae West, Dolly Madison, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Anne Hutchinson, Marian Anderson, Margaret Mead, Lillian Russell, Aimee Simple McPherson, Amelia Earhart, Belle Star, Phyllis Wheatley, Rachel Carson, Isadora Duncan, Abigail Scott Duniway, Hetty Green, Nelly Bly, Shirley Chisolm, Henrietta Szold, Sacajawea.
139 Microcassette interviews. Side A and Side B labels in quotation marks reflect Sumner's original labels. Also included are older audio cassettes (numbers 140-160)
Includes interviews with Bill Wittliff, Gary Cartwright, Shirley Temple Black, Michael Caine, John Grisham, Bill Moyers, and Maya Angelou
Multiple accessions from Texas State University professor and writer, Miles Wilson. Materials include research and drafts for his books, Line of Fall, Fire Season, Going the Distance, and Harm: Poems.
Archival materials following the career of Texas State University professor and writer, Miles Wilson from 1966-2016. Majority of the materials in the collection are manuscript drafts for Line of Fall and Fire Season. Included are book catalogs; royalties for the drafts; and characters analyses and synopsis for Fire Season. Some of the materials within the collection are in poor condition because they were charred in a fire. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Wilson's original descriptions.
Archival materials from author Miles Wilson dating 1965-2016. Material includes correspondence pertaining to the acquisition of the J. Frank Dobie papers by William Wittliff and the inception of the Southwest Writers Collection at Southwest Texas State University (Texas State University) San Marcos, Texas, as well as annotated drafts of early poetry and short prose; submissions to various poetry and short story anthologies; rejection slips and editor correspondence. The bulk of the material includes drafts of poems eventually included in the anthology Harm: Poems and early manuscript drafts of Going the Distance and Fire Season. Included are correspondence, royalty statements, reviews, marketing materials and annotated manuscripts for Harm and Fire Season. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Wilson's original descriptions.
Multiple accessions from scholar and author, Mark Busby document his research and writing. His archive also includes substantial records from the Texas Institute of Letters, for which Busby is past President.
Archival materials received from Mark Busby, 2002-2004 President of The Texas Institute of Letters, majority of the materials pertaining to TIL from 1976-2011. Included in the collection are membership nominations, TIL Award information, newsletters, and directories. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Busby's original descriptions.
Multiple accessions documenting the writing career of Ann Weisgarber, author of The Personal History of Rachel Dupree (2010), The Promise (2013), and The Glovemaker (2019).
1. Framed cover art of The Personal History of Rachel DuPree, undated
2. Framed cover art of The Promise, undated
1. Gulf Coast Reads On the Same Page, The Promise, poster, October 2015
2. LSC-North Harris Library Presents The Promise and the Writing Process with Author Ann Weisgarber, poster, October 15, undated
3. Hill Country Author Series Presents Ann Weisgarber, author of The Promise at Georgetown Public Library, poster, November 17, undated
4. Two Gulf Coast Reads, The Forum at Cypress Creek Christian Church, author talk and book signing posters, October 29, [2015]
5. Gulf Coast Reads Meet Author Ann Weisgarber at Mitchell Library, Spur Award Finalist Best Historical Fiction, Walter Scott Prize Shortlist, October 8, 2015
Two accessions of Celeste Bedford Walker's playscripts and screenplays including "Distant Voices", "Greenwood: An American Dream Destroyed", "Sassy Mamas", "Bartersville" and "Camp Logan". Also included are promotional items, photographs, correspondence, newspaper articles and reviews.
Donation by Celeste Bedford Walker of her typescript plays, "Distant Voices", "Sassy Mamas", "Greenwood: An American Dream Destroyed", and "Reunion in Bartersville", included in the collection are synopses, reviews, Walker's Biography, and her induction into the Texas Institute of Letters, 1983-2017.
Additions to the Celeste Bedford Walker archival collection from 1925-2012. The majority of the materials included in the collection are promotional flyers, photographs, correspondence, and newspaper articles relating to Walker's play, Camp Logan and other plays such as Once in a Wife Time. Also included in the collection are two The New York Times papers from 1925-1926.
Ray Benson's archive contains materials documenting his entire career, featuring records, photographs, instruments, wardrobe, awards and other memorabilia dating from 1951-2018.
The Ray Benson archive includes material documenting Benson's music career from 1971-2017. Majority of the collection includes promotional articles, including an article from John Morthland; and awards. Included in the collection are photographs of Benson with President George W. Bush, Laura Bush, and others; Benson's boots and concert jacket; and correspondence with Dolly Parton and others. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Benson's original descriptions.
Archival materials donated by musician, Ray Benson, as additions to his collection following his music career from 1957-2015. Majority of the addition are photographs of Asleep at the Wheel and headshots of Benson; news clippings and magazine articles on Asleep at the Wheel; and concert promotional materials such as posters and flyers. Included in the collection are handwritten song lyrics; Benson's guitar, cowboy hat, and concert shirt; and photographs of Benson with former U.S. Presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and Barack Obama.
Archival materials donated by Ray Benson, lead singer of the iconic Western Swing band Asleep at the Wheel dating 1972-2018. Additions to this archive include awards, articles and press clippings pertaining to Ray Benson and Asleep at the Wheel from national and international newspapers and magazines both print and online, press kit materials, photographs, tour itineraries, celebrity endorsements by Ray Benson and ephemera. The majority of press includes Asleep at the Wheel album reviews including 10, Asleep at the Wheel Tribute to the Music of Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys, and Asleep at the Wheel Remembers the Alamo, Grammy, CMA, and BMI nominations and awards for Asleep at the Wheel, AATW Billboard album and single chart positions, movie reviews of Wild Texas Rose co-starring Dolly Parton, Ray Benson and Gary Busey, and reviews of A Ride With Bob: From Austin to Tulsa, A Musical Drama About the Life and Legend of Bob Wills written by Ann Rapp and Ray Benson and starring Ray Benson and Asleep at the Wheel. Ephemera includes Ray Benson's childhood passport, his chauffeur license and date books, concert posters and record flats.
The archive of musician Terri Hendrix includes correspondence, photographs, programs and flyers, awards, articles about Hendrix, composition notebooks, lyrics, sheet music, recordings, artifacts, and posters. Correspondence includes greeting cards, letters, and fan mail – many from young students. Awards includes her 2016 induction into the San Marcos Women's Hall of Fame and contains the nomination packet put together by Richard Skanse. The recordings are arranged by format: 2" reel studio recordings - many produced by Lloyd Maines; audiocassettes of demos, live performances, and recordings spanning 1989-2007; CDs of the same spanning 1997-2015; DAT tapes; and mini discs. The collection also includes VHS cassettes and computer files, and a pair of painted overalls worn by Hendrix while performing.
The archive of musician Terri Hendrix includes correspondence, photographs, programs and flyers, awards, articles about Hendrix, composition notebooks, lyrics, sheet music, recordings, artifacts, and posters. Correspondence includes greeting cards, letters, and fan mail – many from young students. Awards includes her 2016 induction into the San Marcos Women's Hall of Fame and contains the nomination packet put together by Richard Skanse. The recordings are arranged by format: 2" reel studio recordings - many produced by Lloyd Maines; audiocassettes of demos, live performances, and recordings spanning 1989-2007; CDs of the same spanning 1997-2015; DAT tapes; and mini discs. The collection also includes VHS cassettes and computer files, and a pair of painted overalls worn by Hendrix while performing.
Multiple accessions documenting the career of Texas State University alumnus and internationally recognized cartoonist, Charles Barsotti. Materials include original drawings, correspondence, files relating to marketing campaigns, and magazines featuring his work.
One cartoon by Charles Barsotti.
48 cartoons from the New Yorker magazine created by Charles Barsotti, June 21, 1969-October 24, 1977.
Donation by Ramoth Barsotti of Charles Barsotti's correspondence with Southwest Texas State University and Dick Holland, including a mark up draft of introduction by Billy Porterfield to Barsotti's Texas, 1984-2013.
A collection of donated items from Ramoth Barsotti displaying cartoons that have been created by Charles Barsotti. The drawings can be seen in The Saturday Evening Post. The collection also includes newspaper articles, clippings, and correspondence, 1915-2015. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Barsotti's original descriptions.
Additions to cartoonist, Charles Barsotti's collection, 1978-2012. Majority of the materials are letters, magazines, and original artwork. Included in the collection are works submitted and published by Charles Barsotti in Parade Magazine, Fortune Small Business, and Harvard Business Review. There is an original, 1978 Time Magazine with Charles Barsotti's artwork on the cover. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Barsotti's original descriptions.
Archival materials following the last three decades of work from American cartoonist Charles Barsotti of San Marcos, Texas, 1987-2010. Included in the collections are cartoons; product logo concepts; project invoices; and faxes and emails between Barsotti and his clients.
Archival material from the noted Saturday Evening Post and The New Yorker cartoonist Charles Barsotti dating 1963-2012. Materials include cartooning project files for various companies. The bulk of the project files consist of correspondence, news clippings, rough and original illustrations, payment invoices and newsletter issues containing illustrations by Barsotti. One oversize box contains large calendars featuring illustrations by Barsotti.
Additional archival material relating to the work and drawings of Charles Barsotti from 1991-1994. The majority of the material within the collection consists of original sketches of the NiceDay pup and other characters he created for WH Smith Supplies, along with faxes mainly between Mark Steen and Charles Barsotti. The collection also included newspapers, the Creative Review, an Office Supplies Catalogue and an Annual Report 1993 that all contained the NiceDay pup drawings, transaction statements for Barsotti's pay, and faxes from Hieroglyphics Designs. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Barsotti's original descriptions.

An extensive collection of original cowpoke artwork by Asa "Ace" Reid. The bulk of the accession consists of 75 framed pen and ink cartoons, and there are another 35 unframed in box 1. Also framed are 14 original watercolors by Reid, a 6-foot oil painting of Reid, and a banner from Ruidoso Downs. There are several photographs of Ace Reid by himself and with others, as well as photographs of notables such as Governor John Connally, Hank Thompson, and Slim Pickens. Artifacts include Reid's drawing table, chair, and saddle. The collection was transferred from the Museum of Western Art in Kerrville, Texas.
An extensive collection of original cowpoke artwork by Asa "Ace" Reid. The bulk of the accession consists of 75 framed pen and ink cartoons, and there are another 35 unframed in box 1. Also framed are 14 original watercolors by Reid, a 6-foot oil painting of Reid, and a banner from Ruidoso Downs. There are several photographs of Ace Reid by himself and with others, as well as photographs of notables such as Governor John Connally, Hank Thompson, and Slim Pickens. Artifacts include Reid's drawing table, chair, and saddle. The collection was transferred from the Museum of Western Art in Kerrville, Texas.
The archive of Emmy-award winning costume designer, Van Broughton Ramsey spans 1980-2014 and measures 32 boxes. The bulk of the collection comprises his design binders for various projects; these are arranged according to genre: plays, films, television movies, television mini-series, and television series. There is one binder for his work designing the walk-around costume McGolf, an official mascot of the PGA. There are also several binders containing detailed research files, most arranged by decade, but some by project (boxes 24-27).
The collection includes numerous original sketches for his projects. Many are housed within the design binders (boxes 2-23), but there are also a number of sketches in folders in box 1 and in oversized boxes 28-32. Character plots (charts used to plan costumes and budgets) are likewise housed within some binders, but there are also several oversized in box 32.
Some other highlights of the collection are letters from Lilian Gish, Bill Wittliff, and Glenn Close; the booklet from the Costume Designer's Guild's career achievement award which Ramsey was awarded in 2009; playbills from numerous productions; and clippings and ephemera relating to his work.
The archive of Emmy-award winning costume designer, Van Broughton Ramsey spans 1980-2013 and measures 32 boxes. The bulk of the collection comprises his design binders for various projects; these are arranged according to genre: plays, films, television movies, television mini-series, and television series. There is one binder for his work designing the walk-around costume McGolf, an official mascot of the PGA. There are also several binders containing detailed research files, most arranged by decade, but some by project (boxes 24-27).
The collection includes numerous original sketches for his projects. Many are housed within the design binders (boxes 2-23), but there are also a number of sketches in folders in box 1 and in oversized boxes 28-32. Character plots (charts used to plan costumes and budgets) are likewise housed within some binders, but there are also several oversized in box 32.
Some other highlights of the collection are letters from Lilian Gish, Bill Wittliff, and Glenn Close; the booklet from the Costume Designer's Guild's career achievement award which Ramsey was awarded in 2009; playbills from numerous productions; and clippings and ephemera relating to his work.
Costume sketches by Van Broughton Ramsey for a variety of plays and films.
Binders containing scripts, sketches, budgets, and character plots for a variety of plays. Arranged alphabetically by play title.
Binders containing scripts, costume sketches, research materials, production notes, and other documentation for film projects. Arranged chronologically by broadcast date of the films.
Binders containing scripts, costume designs, research, photographs, and other production materials for television movies. Arranged chronologically by broadcast date.
Binders containing scripts, costume designs, research, and other production materials relating to various television mini-series. Arranged chronologically by broadcast date.
Binders containing scripts, costume designs, research, and other production materials for various television series. Arranged chronologically by broadcast date. Also included is the design binder for Billy McGolf, a walk-around character for the PGA.
Binders containing research on clothing, accessories, and styles for a variety of eras and also for a number of specific projects.
Original oversized watercolor sketches of costumes for various plays and film projects.
Handdrawn charts of characters for a variety of projects.
Texas singer/songwriter, James McMurtry's archive includes original notepads and loose pages of lyric composition. Albums represented include Too Long in the Wasteland (1989); Candyland (1992); Where'd You Hide the Body (1995); Walk Between the Raindrops (1998); Saint Mary's Wood (2002); Live in Aught-Three (2004); Childish Things (2005); Just Us Kids (2008); and Complicated Game (2015).
This archival accession of singer/songwriter, James McMurtry includes original notepads and loose pages of lyric composition. Albums represented include Too Long in the Wasteland (1989); Candyland (1992); Where'd You Hide the Body (1995); Walk Between the Raindrops (1998); Saint Mary's Wood (2002); Live in Aught-Three (2004); Childish Things (2005); Just Us Kids (2008); and Complicated Game (2015).
The collection arrived in 3 boxes with little discernable order. Box 1 was labeled "Wasteland-Candyland;" Box 2 was labeled "Candyland-St. Mary;" and Box 3 was unlabeled. Each box contained yellow legal pads of song lyric compositions, as well as many loose pages of song lyrics in varying stages of completion.
The 40 notepads in this accession are loosely arranged according to album, identified by either the cover song on the top sheet of the pad or by other songs included in it. In cases where no song could be identified, the notepads are identified by the box they arrived in. There is no order to the approximately 1000 loose pages of song lyrics; they are simply filed according to the box they arrived in, and kept in the original order.
Also included in the accession are photographs and negatives including the original negatives for the Too Long in the Wasteland album cover and several black and white performance photos. There is also some publicity clippings, a few business records, flyers, and some Lonesome Dove production records.
"I think Columbia records probably owns the rights to the entire Wasteland shoot. They did full buyouts back then. Columbia did not fund the neon Candyland shoots. I paid for those and Columbia rejected them. There are some black and white prints from the Live in Aught Three cover shoot taken at the long gone Zephyr in Salt Lake City. Alan Pogue took those, ball cap turned backwards, Farmer's Daughter T-shirt., exit sign. I think his office is called Texas Center for Documentary Photography."
"Neon House installation for Smiley Poole, original "Candyland" shoot was by Ben Livingston of Austin. I think his business was called Benneon. Neon band, that I had hoped to use for the back cover of Candyland was in a studio owned by a photographer named Bechtolt (I think). Studio was on 6th Avenue in Manhattan not far north of Grammercy Park. My friend, Keith McDonald, who shot the "Wasteland" cover, was Bechtolt's assistant and shot the photos of the neon band."
Additional sheets of lyric compositions from singer/songwriter, James McMurtry. Song titles are identified when possible, otherwise they are listed according to their opening line. Many of the legal sized yellow notebook pages are crumpled and have remnants of scotch tape. There are a handful white chord progression sheets – possibly done by David Grissom.

Multiple accessions from drummer Ernie Durawa document his decades-long performing with artists such as The Texas Tornados, Willie Nelson, Johnny Bush, Flaco Jimenez, and others. Included are awards, posters, photographs, and video cassettes.
Various awards presented to Ernie Durawa.
Additional awards, photographs, and some ephemera documenting Ernie Durawa's career.
Addition to the Durawa Accessions contains seven VHS tapes, limited ephemera and one unopened album "Jammn' with J. R. and Friends"
Additions to the Ernie Durawa collection includes photographs and VHS tapes relating to Ernie Durawa and the Texas Tornados.
The archive of singer-songwriter, Charlie Robison spans 1989-2014. Included are song lyrics, photographs, flyers, posters, and scrapbooks. The bulk of the collection is comprised of the 8 scrapbooks dating from 1989-2002 that include numerous photographs, newspaper and magazine articles, and memorabilia. Of note is the circa 1992 photo album that includes childhood pictures of Robison with his mother and siblings, as well as many snapshots from early performances with Two Hoots and a Holler, and ticket stubs from concerts Robison attended
Contains 53 photographs of Robison performing with Two Hoots and a Holler, as well as at parties and hanging out with friends. Also included are 12 concert ticket stubs (Stevie Ray Vaughan, George Jones, Dwight Yoakum, Rodney Crowell, Stray Cats, Carl Perkins, and others). Other items of note include a dollar bill signed by Stevie Ray Vaughan; 2 flyers for Two Hoots and a Holler concerts; a set list for George Jones; and a contract for Two Hoots and a Holler performance at the State Fair of Texas, September 15, 1989.
The bulk of the album consists of snapshots (60) documenting concerts, the Grand Canyon, parties, and a wedding (possibly sister Robyn Ludwick). Other subjects include the Continental Club, Bruce Robison, and Kelly Willis. Of note among the photos are four childhood ones of Charlie with his mother, alone, and with siblings. Also included are 2 clippings about the Millionaire Playboys, an early band Robison performed with.
Contains 13 photographs of Robison performing and numerous newspaper and magazine clippings.
Contains 12 photographs and numerous newspaper and magazine clippings. Also included is a program from a 2002 "My Brother and Me" concert in Wharton, Texas, with Bruce Robison; a 2000 letter from M.J., co-owner of Gruene Hall, and a 2001 letter from Jeca Salas at 99.5 The Wolf. Also of note are 2 sets of handwritten song lyrics: "Life of the Party" (4 pages), and "Beautiful Day" (1 page).
Contains 14 photographs of Robison – mostly performing, but some off stage, as well as 2 photos of brother Bruce. 24 newspaper and magazine clippings document concerts and tours including ones with wife Emily Robison, and Bruce. Of note is a 1999 brochure for Nørdens største Country festival in Norway.
Contains 20 photographs of Robison performing solo and with brother Bruce, as well as numerous magazine and newspaper clippings. Also included is a 2009 email forward of a review of Robison's performance at a New York nightclub.
Contains 16 photographs of Robison performing and with fans. The rest of the scrapbook is comprised of newspaper and magazine clippings about Robison, his wife Emily, and brother Bruce.
Majority of the scrapbook contains 48 snapshots documenting the "My Brother and Me" tour in January 2002 (with brother Bruce Robison), and April 2002 in Gruene Hall, and in May 2002 at the Lee County Fair. Scrapbook was compiled by Missy Schuelke and contains her captions.
This collection of photographs, correspondence, personal and legal documents, artifacts, paintings, and publications ranges in date from 1881-1992 (bulk dates 1936-1965). It has been arranged into the following series: I. Correspondence; II. Personal Documents; III. Legal Documents; IV. President's Commission on Coal; V. Exhibits and Publications; VI. Interviews; VII. Clippings; VIII. Awards and Artifacts; IX. Photographs of Russell and Jean Lee; X. Photographs by Russell Lee; XI. Paintings by Russell Lee; and XII. Camera Equipment
Letters from Jack Hurley to Russell Lee, regarding Hurley's book, Russell Lee: Photographer, comprise the bulk of the correspondence series. Three of Russell Lee's FSA field notebooks, which were used to write captions for his FSA photographs, are located in the Personal Documents series. Other personal documents include Lee's mother's diary (1900-1901), the family Bible, and several of Jean Lee's writing assignments (1967). Legal documents include divorce and marriage records, passports, and Lee's grandmother's will. Of particular note are paintings by Lee which pre-date his interest in photography, and three of Lee's cameras, along with their accessories, such as a hand held flash and various viewfinders.
The seventy-eight photographs of Lee, dating from his childhood through his early eighties, were taken by unknown photographers and by well known photographers, such as Ave Bonar. Some are portraits, many are candid photographs.
The three-hundred fifty-two photographs in this collection taken by Lee provide an overview of his entire career. The bulk of the professional photographs taken by Lee include work from his years with the Farm Security Administration (FSA), from 1936 to 1942. One hundred and thirty of the FSA prints are rare, vintage prints. Other photographs include those taken while he was serving with the Air Transport Command (ATC) from 1942 through 1945, and documentary work undertaken for the Coal Mines Administration in 1946, arranged in chronological order.
Arranged into subseries for correspondence to Russell Lee and to Jean Lee, this material is filed in alphabetical order by the name of the correspondent. The bulk of the correspondence to Russell Lee is comprised of letters from Jack Hurley regarding their collaboration on the book, Russell Lee: Photographer.
Includes 2 versions of the manuscript. The first version was sent to Lee with a letter dated May 11. The second version has changes made to page 33.
This series contains three of Russell Lee's FSA field notebooks (late 1930s-early 1940s), with his notes which were later used to write captions for his FSA photographs. After a certain point in time, Jean Lee took over the duty of gathering this information and maintaining notebooks for this purpose. The notebooks maintained by Jean Lee are presumed to have been discarded by Ms. Lee after Russell Lee's death. Other materials in this series include family documents such as Russell Lee's mother's diary from 1900-1901, the family Bible dating from 1881, as well as some of Jean Lee's writing assignments dating from 1967.
Documents including and relating to the will of Russell Lee's maternal grandmother, Eva Werner, comprise the first subseries of this series, and relate in part to a half-sister of Lee's. Other documents include a divorce decree for Russell Lee and his first wife, birth and marriage certificates for Russell and Jean Lee, passports for both Lees, and financial records related to a household employee.
Will, dated June 11, 1914 (copy from March 9, 1949)
Trustee Report from March 1, 1983 to August 28, 1986
Form Complaint (contest), October 15, 1986
Legal correspondence to Jean Lee (October 28, 1986 to July 1, 1990)
Tax records relating to Naomi Lott (household employee), 1984, 1988, 1989,
1990, 1991. NOTE: Folder contains envelopes for 1985 and 1987, but these envelopes contain no records.
Correspondence, financial documents, and guidelines and working papers comprise this series which relates not to Russell Lee's work with the Coal Mine Administration, but to his role as consultant to the President's Commission on Coal in the late 1970s.
"Guidelines to Consultants" undated
The President's Commission on Coal list of voting and non-voting members
Document described as a working paper outlining issues the Commission will
consider over the coming year, October 29, 1978
Photocopies of newspaper clippings that discuss The President's Commission on
Coal. Clippings, December 1978.
10-page questionnaire, not completed. [Note: Date and origin unknown, but
found in Lee's folder on President's Commission on Coal]
List of Recommendations for coal-mining companies, photocopied from a book.
[Note: Date and origin unknown, but found in Lee's folder on President's
Commission on Coal]
In the Coal Mines Far Away: Russell Lee's Photographs of Mining Life" by
Barry O'Connell [Note: handwritten on title page: Prospects 2 Edited by
Jack Salzman Published by Burt Franklin & Co. 1976]
"1946: Day by Day. The Sergent Family, Photographed by Russell W. Lee"
[Note: handwritten on title page: Southern Exposure Vol 4, #1-2
Spring/Summer 1976]
This series includes catalogs, a booklet, and a poster related to exhibits of Russell Lee's works (one exhibit by the Coal Mine Administration in 1947, one by the University of Texas at Austin in 1965, and one by Texas A&M in 1986). Articles related Lee's work in general complete this series
This series is comprised of one transcript with corrections and edits from an interview of Russell Lee by Richard Doud, on June 2, 1964.
The clippings in this series relate to Russell Lee's photographic career, and appear to have been maintained by both Russell and Jean Lee. Clippings regarding Lee's death were maintained by Jean Lee.
This series includes some of the awards given to Russell Lee throughout his career, arranged in chronological order, beginning with one from his high school, Culver Military Academy, dating from 1919-1920. Lee's World War II Air Medal and other WWII decorations, as well a Resolution commemorating Lee's efforts on behalf of the Coal Mine Administration (1947) are also included in this series. A Texas State Senate Resolution presented to Jean Lee in 1986 in memory of Russell Lee is also present. Also included are the following artifacts: Air Transport Command cap, Lee's camera bag for the ATC, and the Werner family bible.
The collection contains 77 photographs of Russell Lee, the largest group known to exist. This group of photographs range from portraits by unknown studio photographers, to well known photographers such as Ave Bonar. Russell Lee is portrayed both in snapshots by anonymous photographers and candid photographs by military photographers in the Air Transport Command.
Arranged in chronological order by following Lee's career, this series consists of 352 photographs. Two-hundred forty-eight of these photographs by Russell Lee were taken for the Farm Security Administration (FSA) between 1936 and 1942. The gems of this part of the collection are the 130 vintage prints; most are complete with captions typed on the back by FSA staff. Making up the balance of the FSA group are 94 modern prints, 6 panels from the 1965 retrospective at the University of Texas, and 18 study prints.
The balance of the photographs in the Collection provide the researcher with a comprehensive overview of Russell Lee's entire career, including his other government work: 16 photographs were taken during his commission during World War II with the Air Transport Command, and 37 photographs are from his tenure with the Coal Mines Administration.
Russell Lee's post government work is also well-represented, including 33 photographs taken for a variety of publications after World War II in Texas where he photographed and spent most of his life. Other commercial work is also represented in his photographs of Italy for a photo essay in the Summer 1961 issue of Texas Quarterly (5 photographs), and his work for Standard Oil New Jersey/ARAMCO(6 photographs). The Collection also contains 8 photographs taken during the winter of 1935-1936, prior to Russell Lee joining the staff of the FSA, and one image of unidentified location or date.
Titles with brackets were provided by the curator, titles without brackets indicate that they are the original title.
The three oil paintings in this series are not dated, but were created during the early 1930s, when Lee studied painting in Woodstock, NY. A friend suggested Lee buy a camera and take photographs to improve his painting technique; Lee did so and quickly became interested in photography. The painting of the man in this series remains unfinished as a result of Lee's shift in artistic focus.
The bulk of this series is comprised of three of Russell Lee's cameras and their accessories, such as his hand-held flash and various viewfinders. Also included is Lee's Leitz 35mm enlarger, and his cap from his tenure with the Air Transport Command.
This collection is comprised of correspondence, funeral and memorial papers, legal documents and artifacts. The bulk of the collection is formed by correspondence to Jean Lee by her friends and correspondence regarding the estate of Jean Lee.
Jones' papers are divided into two series: 1. Texas records; 2. New Mexico records. They span the years from 1931 to 1992 with most of the material dating from the 1960s through the 1980s. Contained here are class notes, scripts, set designs, costume designs, playbills, letters, photographs, records, audiotapes, reports, clippings, magazines, articles, awards, school records, yearbooks, scrapbooks, personal effects, and mementos. The Texas series contains three subseries: Education and Teaching; Acting, Design, and Directing; and Dallas Theater Center Administration.
The first subseries of the Texas files presents information on Jones' education at Baylor University and her teaching of acting and design at both Baylor and Trinity Universities. The second offers a good deal of information on her career as actor, director, and designer at the Dallas Theater Center. The third subseries covers her work as assistant artistic director to Paul Baker and is especially informative on the state of affairs during the transfer of the directorship at the Dallas Theater Center from Paul Baker to Adrian Hall.
The New Mexico series is arranged into four subseries: Teaching and Directing, Paul Baker Festival, Production and Script Files, and Personal. The first subseries provides information on Jones' work as artist-in-residence, and later as a faculty member at the College of Santa Fe. The second centers on the career of Paul Baker, especially at the Dallas Theater Center, and documents the 1990 festival organized by his former students to honor him. The third subseries is Jones' collection of scripts or production files including many of the plays performed at the Dallas Theater Center. The fourth contains material on Mary Sue's private life and non-theatrical interests, such as her baby book, gardening, and decoration ideas for her Santa Fe home.
The first subseries, Education and Training, contains Mary Sue's yearbooks, class notes, and her thesis from her years at Baylor University, where she gained her undergraduate and masters degrees in drama. Also included are slides of the 1952 trip to Paris made by the Baylor Drama students with Paul Baker.
The next subseries, Acting, Design, and Directing Career, contains records, audiotapes, photographs, slides, posters, letters, scripts, set designs and costume designs. The material documents Mary Sue's career as an actor, designer and director at Baylor University and at the Dallas Theater Center. There are photographs of her performances, recordings of Hamlet and her Speak 4 Trio group, and original drawings of her set and costume designs. There are also examples of her first husband Roy Fridge's art work, including the posters he designed for the Dallas Theater Center's productions, and some examples of the artwork of set designer Virgil Beavers.
Mary Sue Jones had been with Paul Baker since the inception of the Dallas Theater Center and at the time of his forced retirement she was appointed interim artistic director. The third subseries, Dallas Theater Center Administration, contains administrative files from the executive committee and search committee as well as budgets, planning files, memos, clippings, correspondence, contracts, and playbills. Here is found good documentation of Mary Sue's stint as Interim Artistic Director in 1982, including her plans for the redirection of the theater, and clippings and memos relating to the search for the new director which resulted in the hiring of Adrian Hall.
Mary Sue Jones left the Dallas Theater Center in 1983 and joined the College of Santa Fe as artist in residence. She taught and directed at the Greer Garson Theater Center becoming a full time faculty member at the College of Santa Fe in 1988. The first subseries, Teaching and Directing, contains class notes, student theses, reviews of College productions, and notes on faculty and college administration. Besides her own theater work, Mary Sue continued to manage the rights to Preston's plays and to promote his memory and the production of his works. In this series, there are clippings about Preston as well as material on the Dallas Theater Center Endowment Fund set up in his memory.
Mary Sue Jones met Paul Baker as a student at Baylor University, and she went on to work closely with him as a member of his core group of artist-teachers until his forced retirement from the Dallas Theater Center in 1982. Afterwards, she continued to keep in touch with her mentor, inviting him to Santa Fe to oversee a production of Preston Jones' The Last Meeting of the Knights of the White Magnolia in 1985, while at the same time organizing a tribute to him. She also took a prominent part in the 1990 Paul Baker festival in Waco, "Second Harvest." The second subseries, Paul Baker Festival Files, contains newspaper clippings, programs, and letters, much of which focuses on Baker's career and theatrical influence.
The next subseries, Script and Production Files, contains Mary Sue's collection of scripts, articles and research material on stage productions. Many of the scripts are annotated with remarks on interpretation and stage directions. A good number of these plays were performed at the Dallas Theater Center. They are arranged alphabetically by title.
The final subseries, entitled Personal, presents aspects of Mary Sue's life from her birth in Carthage, Missouri, through her marriage to and divorce from the sculptor Roy Barto Fridge, her life with Preston at the Dallas Theater Center, her widowhood in Santa Fe, to her death in 1992. Present are her baby book, school records, divorce papers, awards, photographs, letters, clippings, and notices on her death. Her clippings files contain information on matters that were of particular interest to her, such as gardening, the Dallas Theater Center, Preston Jones, home decoration, birds and wildlife, etc.
Archival materials received from journalist and former CNN senior vice president, Earl Casey. Casey, a longtime friend of Jerry Jeff and Susan Walker, served as the chief researcher and writer/consultant on Jerry Jeff Walker's autobiography, Gypsy Songman, 1999. The bulk of the material in this collection dates 1964-1990 and consists of research documents and taped interviews with transcripts conducted with Jerry Jeff Walker, Walker's family, friends and other musicians for the book Gypsy Songman. Research documents include photocopies of Walker's arrest records for his infamous, 1964 New Orleans public intoxication charge, correspondence between Walker, his family and friends, newspaper clippings pertaining to Walker's childhood in Oneonta, New York and his subsequent musical career, a PhD dissertation pertaining to the songs of Jerry Jeff Walker, photographs, drawings, partial draft manuscript for Letters from the Road (original working title for Gypsy Songman) and a copy of Ben Jennings' unpublished memoir. Color coded stickers on cassette tapes and transcripts along with color coded spreadsheet reflect Casey's original numbering system. Folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Casey's original descriptions. NOTE: BOX 3664 FOLDER 1 IS RESTRICTED UNTIL 2035 WITHOUT CURATOR OR DIRECTOR'S PERMISSION.
Collection consists of background materials, such as descriptions of the event and proposals for themes. Also includes materials used and saved from each theme, such as newspaper clippings and press releases, posters, calendars of events, etc. Each year's theme also featured a book, and these are kept with the series. Each series various in documentation; after 2017, the documentation is limited.
Materials in this series consist of primarily planning documents, theme proposals, grant applications, and funding information. There is a small amount of contracts and correspondence with speakers and performance groups as well as meeting notes. Organized by year and theme, the documents are not consistent in coverage, with some years more robust in documentation than others. Also includes event lists for each year. Contains one folder of clippings that have articles about Common Experience events and advertisements.
Digital files including Word documents, PDFs, JPGs, TIFs, Powerpoint, and Excel sheets related to the planning and funding of the Common Experience events. Includes correspondence to speakers, grant applications, teaching guides, posters, a team manual, and digital photographs of the events.
One poster from 2005: Candlestein play.
Four sketchbooks with posters and clippings pasted to the pages. One sketchbook removed from binding.
Loose posters from Common Experience events Protest and Dissent as well as Water Planet.
Loose posters from Common Experience events. One oversized poster from Civic Responsibility and the Legacy of LBJ in vertical file.
Loose posters from Common Experience events.
Student work presumably from the University Seminar in Fall 2004. Consists of three scrapbooks and one reflection journal.
Student work presumably from the University Seminar in Fall 2005. Consists of one scrapbook.
Two draft readers.
Removed from binder. Articles and readings organized by topic.
Our Common Experience theme for the 2020-2021 academic year is Dynamics. When we discuss dynamics, we're talking about movement. It's motion — but it's more than that. Think of the motivating forces behind everything, everywhere. There are physical forces, moral forces, and driving forces. You can see and feel dynamics in growth, change, inspiration, and action. We will consider the movement from where you are to where you will be, approaching dynamics both literally and metaphorically, from the observations of astrophysics to the momentum of daily life.
This theme will ask you to explore your own experiences in the contexts of space, place, movement, and time. By studying the past while examining your personal values, you can trace the paths of social, political, and cultural movements. Each new opportunity will add knowledge and experience — leading you to see the influences and responsibilities you have in shaping our global future.
---From Common Experience website
Information on theme, news releases.
Collection of posters advertising the Clyde Beatty and Cole Bros. Circus performances that took place in San Marcos, Texas on September 15th, probably in the year 1964. Twelve of the posters include text only. Posters with images consist of two parts: a larger poster containing the title and image and a second, smaller poster containing date and location information pasted to the bottom. Arranged according to subject.
This collection consists of 46 glass plate negatives, measuring 4x5 inches, found in G. Cramer Dry Plate Company boxes. The photographer is unknown. Identified images within the collection were taken in San Antonio, Texas and San Marcos, Texas. These include views of the Hays County Courthouse, the First United Methodist Church, and the Belgar-Cahill Lime Kiln in San Marcos, Texas. A street view of San Marcos, Texas is also present. Others depict scenes from the Battle of Flowers parade in San Antonio, Texas. A few images show soldiers in formation engaged in military drills at Fort Sam Houston with Lambermot home and St. Paul's Episcopal Church in the background. Others show armed men on outdoor excursions or posed beside horse drawn carriages. Unidentified images depict men, women, and children in various forms of outdoor recreation, viewing machinery, or intentionally posed for portraiture. There are also images of various types of machinery. Dates for some negatives have been estimated upon their subjects. All others probably date between 1892-1911.
Probably San Marcos Electric, Light, & Power Company, San Marcos, Texas.
Advertisement for the lithograph dated 1903
Original housing of negatives.
The Alfred H. Nolle papers document the education and professional activities of Alfred H. Nolle including his roles as German language and literature professor, Dean of Southwest Texas State Teachers College, and member of a number of professional and educational organizations. Materials include incoming correspondence, outgoing correspondence, speeches, reports, manuscripts, graduate coursework, theses, lecture notes, assignments, exams, invitations, event programs, accreditation reports, surveys, meeting proceedings, meeting minutes, publications, newspapers, newspaper clippings, and photographs. Although items within the collection date from 1881 through 1978, the majority date from Nolle's career at Southwest Texas State Normal School/Southwest Texas State Teachers College through his retirement, from 1919 through 1978. Topics include higher education administration, foreign language education, teacher education, education accreditation, German language and literature, educational honor societies, professional organizations, the life and career of Lyndon B. Johnson, and the history and administration of Southwest Texas State College and its predecessors.
Alfred H. Nolle received his M.A. and Ph.D. studying German language and literature. Materials within this series document Nolle's graduate education and date from 1912 through 1917 with some undated items. They include a manuscript copy of his Master's thesis, A Comparative Study of Maler Müller's "Golo und Genoveva" and Tieck's "Leben und Tod der heiligen Genoveva." The thesis compares German works related to the medieval heroine Genevieve of Brabant. Notes and handouts from his doctoral course work are also included documenting courses on English philology and changes to the German language. Additionally, some notes for an unspecified course are in Icelandic. Also found within this series are two published copies of his Ph.D. thesis, The German Drama on the St. Louis Stage. The thesis explores the varied success of German theaters in St. Louis, Missouri in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
Nolle served as an instructor and professor of German language and literature from his time in graduate school through his retirement at Southwest Texas State Teacher College in 1959. The materials found within this series document Nolle's instruction in courses on German language and literature and include: course offerings, lecture notes, course outlines, assignments, quizzes, and exams. The majority of the assignments and exams are translation exercises.
The Administrative records series documents the career of Alfred H. Nolle as an educator and college administrator. Records within this series include incoming correspondence, copies of outgoing correspondence, reports, statistics, short writings by Nolle and others, proposals, pamphlets, and meeting minutes. The majority of the correspondents include administrators and faculty from other universities. Congratulatory correspondence to Nolle on receipt of his honorary Doctor of Laws degree from East Texas Baptist College is included. Correspondence to and from Lyndon B. Johnson and concerning Johnson's relationship with Nolle and the College are also found within the series. Topics of the correspondence and records include the administration of Southwest Texas State Normal Collages and Southwest Texas State Teachers College, the accreditation of the college, academic standards, foreign language education, curriculum, College faculty, the Religious Activities Council, and San Marcos and its schools. Although records within this series date to after Nolle's retirement from Southwest Texas State College, the majority of the materials relate to the College and to the organizations.
Alfred H. Nolle was involved with a number of national, state, and local organizations in his capacity as a graduate student, a professor of German, and as an educational administrator. These organizations included honor societies, professional organizations, student organizations, and state agencies. The materials within this series reflect Nolle's interactions these organizations including his role obtaining accreditations for the Southwest Texas State Teachers College as Dean of Faculty and his active role as secretary-treasurer of Alpha Chi honor society. Materials include accreditation reports, surveys, meeting proceedings, meeting minutes, speeches, membership lists, correspondence, publications, educational and institutional standards, and organizational histories and rituals. Topics include organizational membership, meetings, events, language education, teacher education, and the extension work of the College. Historical information about the College is also present within drafts of reports for accreditation including faculty size, faculty education, staff salaries, library resources, admission requirements, and graduation standards.
As Dean of Faculty at Southwest Texas State Teachers College and as a member of a number of professional organizations, Dr. Nolle served as a representative of the College and as an authority on education administration. In the course of those duties, Nolle attended and gave speeches at a number of events including commencement ceremonies, presidential inaugurations, awards banquets and organizational meetings. Materials within this series include event and meeting programs, speeches by Nolle, speeches by others or by unidentified speakers, invitations to events, and RSVP cards. These materials date 1916 through 1977. Also included is a small collection of programs that predate Nolle's tenure at Southwest Texas State Normal School. Dating from 1906 through 1916, they include commencement programs and programs for a commencement event, "Deutscher Abend" or German Evening, which included singing and a play performed by students studying German.
Alfred H. Nolle collected a number of publications related to his interests in education administration and German language education and his admiration of Southwest Texas State Teachers College alum Lyndon B. Johnson. Included in this series are publications related to teacher education, German language, education of Latin-American students, and Lyndon B. Johnson. Publications related to the history of Southwest Texas State Teachers College and works about and by students, faculty, and staff are also included. Items date from 1881 through 1978.
Dr. Nolle collected newspapers and newspaper clippings related to Southwest Texas State University, Lyndon B. Johnson, and his career and personal life. Clippings related to Dr. Nolle include announcements related to his speaking engagements, Alpha Chi events, and his receipt of awards. University events are also included as well as faculty and student awards and recognition and articles related to past University presidents. Clippings also document Lyndon B. Johnson's political career, his relationship and visits to SWTSTC, his retirement, and his wife, Lady Bird Johnson.
Separated to Student newspaper collection.
This series includes 14 photographs dating from before 1919 through 1970. Five photographs are Nolle portraits. The date of creation for two of these photographs is estimated to be before 1919 as the photographer's imprint indicates the photograph was taken in Columbia, Missouri. Hence, these photographs were probably taken when Nolle was in graduate school or teaching at the University of Missouri. Images from the 1920's include a German club photo from 1922 and two undated photos of Southwest Texas State Teacher College faculty. Identified staff members include: Alfred H. Nolle, E. O. Wiley, W. R. Boucher, Gates Thomas, A. C. Hurkholder, Mary C. Brogdon, and Georgia Lazenby. Photographs of Lyndon B. Jonson signing the Higher Education Act of 1965 are also included. A 1970 photograph of Dr. Nolle also includes fellow faculty member Robert Tampke and an individual identified as Harold C. Simon.
Judy Alter Accessions, The Wittliff Collections, Texas State University.
Research, manuscripts, correspondence and galley proofs for several works by Judy Alter, along with manuscripts for Alter's early unpublished novels. Also included are editorial files for Larry L. King's Golden Shadows Old West Museum, which was published in 1993 by Texas Christian University Press, where Judy Alter serves as Director.
Materials pertaining to the writing career of Judy Alter
Material consists mainly of "working files for children's books now in print". Research material consists of newspaper clippings, information from the internet, and photocopies from various books and other sources. In a few instances, original file folders were kept because of notes or other writings that appear on them. Folder 20 has been flagged for sensitive material.
Material consists mainly of drafts from both "soon to be published" and unpublished material.
Material contains drafts, research, and numerous newspaper clippings related to Alter's writing; original file labels appear in quotation marks.
Material donated from Alter's files; items include magazines, writer contracts, reviews, newspaper clippings, limited correspondence, and some research material.  All original folder titles appear in quotation marks.
Donation includes research files, manuscripts, and drafts of the author's work.
This donation consists of manuscript drafts and speeches written by author Judy Alter. Included in this collection are early drafts for Trouble in a Big Box, Danger Comes Home, No Neighborhood for Old Women, Cooking My Way Through Life with Kids & Books, and Texas is Chili Country. Also included is unpublished material related to "Gail Borden" and a Certificate of Copyright Registration for Great Texas Chefs.
Additional material for the Judy Alter archive. This donation contains correspondence 2011-2012, drafts, publicity, and reviews related to Alter's Kelly O'Connell mystery series.
This addition to Alter's collection includes a draft of The Perfect Coed, and various magazines in which her articles have been featured such as Louis L'amour Western Magazine, Texas Co-Op Power, and Roundup Magazine.
This collection consists of additional material of Judy Alter's literary papers. The majority of the material within the collection is a series of books written by Judy Alter. Also included in the collection is many magazines, the majority being from or dealing with Fort Worth, Texas. Many newspapers are included in the collection, each containing an article about or written by Judy Alter. The folder titles preceding a semicolon reflect Alter's original description.

