Letterbooks, ledgers, accounts, reports and other papers of the New York Brewery, Spokane, Washington.
Records include daily correspondence from the office, such as interoffice memoranda, minutes of meetings, office planning information, reports, capital improvement projects and blueprints, research project information, faculty service reports, information on new data processing equipment, etc.
Property and siting records consist of reports, projects, memos, correspondence, pictures, and newspaper articles.
Concerning the Vance Flying Wing aircraft and aviation design from the 1930s. Also includes contracts and related aircraft registration documents.
The images were taken by employees of the Engineering Extension office of the College of Engineering and Architecture at Washington State University, and document the programs, research, and day-to-day life of the faculty, students, and staff of the College of Engineering and Architecture.
This collection contains materials related to the Takeda family’s incarceration under Executive Order 9066 at Heart Mountain Relocation Center, Wyoming and Shiro Takeda’s service as a Japanese language instructor for the United States Navy.
Collection includes correspondence and papers relating to the Burgess family, specifically sisters Hamtonetta Burgess Carr and Catherine Burgess Carr, during the period 1881-1950.
Collection contains eight interviews on 5 cassette tapes, transcripts, and related newsclippings from the Spokane Spokesman-Review.
The collection consists primarily of biographical files covering employees past and present in WSU's Extension-oriented programs, as well as selected significant WSU administrators and other personnel.
Geoffrey Wells, who wrote under the name Geoffrey West, was an English novelist, literary critic and biographer. The collection consists of correspondence from Geoffrey Wells to the American essayist, critic, and naturalist Henry Chester Tracy. Wells wrote on a variety of subjects in these letters, but often focused on literary subjects.
Comprises a history of the barber business in Whitman County, Washington state, typescript, n.d.
Minutes, platforms, voter lists, and subject files of the county organization of the Democratic Party in Whitman County, Washington.
Correspondence and writings.
Chiefly correspondence and reviews relating to photography books published in U.S. between 1980 and 1985.
Included in these materials are data relating to the development of the Department and its teaching activities, planning of the Performing Arts Coliseum, and typed manuscripts for three publications of E.E. Ettlich.
Established in 1937, the National Youth Administration was a New Deal program dealing with the effects of the Great Depression. Among other things, it provided grants to college students in exchange for work. The collection consists primarily of records and papers relating to the Pullman campus of WSC's administration of National Youth Administration projects.
This collection consists of Stanley Smith and Fred G. Rounds architectural drawings for the A.A. Rounds house in Pullman, WA (10 items).
37 black and white photographs of Everett and Lowell, Washington, taken by photographer Frank La Roche in 1891 and 1892.
Correspondence, resolutions, news releases, administrative and financial records, minutes, and membership lists of the organization, an affiliate of the National Farmer's Union, and its Charter Oak, Evergreen and Sara chapters.
Addresses by James J. Hill, delivered to various groups on transportation, commercial affairs, and education.
Two muster rolls of the United State's Army First Regiment of Infantry stationed at Fort Crawford, Michigan dated 1832. Both rolls are signed by Col. Zachary Taylor, future 12th president of the United States.
Letters to family and friends about army experiences. Also, one volume of typescript transcriptions.
The Gordon Brothers General Merchandise Ledgers consist of two bound ledgers detailing transactions at the establishment from 1898-1901. The store was located in Pampa, Washington (currently LaCrosse) and run by James Emory and Frank L. Gordon from 1898-1905.
Need for both electric power and agricultural water supply resulted in multiple dams being placed on rivers in the Columbia River drainage basin in the mid 20th century. The collection consists of a number of photos taken over the period of the construction of several dams, from very early stages to near completion.
The North Pacific Grain Growers Company (NPGG) came into existence as a regional cooperative in late 1929 in Lewiston, ID, and organized as a company in April of 1930 in Spokane, WA. In 1938 the NPGG moved its headquarters to Portland, OR, where it would remain until 1983, when it merged with the Farmers Union Grain Terminal Association to become the Harvest States Cooperatives. The collection consists of three very separate sets of materials: a scrapbook theorized to have originally been created by some sort of government agency; loose photographs primarily relate to the business of the North Pacific Grain Growers Company; and NPGG records, almost all of which relate to the ownership and operation of the NPGG's Spokane grain terminal.
The collection consists chiefly of garden, nursery and seed catalogs, rounded out by miscellaneous garden magazines, pamphlets, brochures, similar materials. The earliest of the catalogs is dated 1866, while the most recent is from 1994. A few of the pamphlets are of even earlier years.
This collection consists of ledgers, accounts, correspondence, souvenirs, photographs and a membership directory of St. Gall Catholic Church and Parish in Colton, Washington.
This collection consists of three intaglio prints by Andrew Bell (1726-1809).
This collection contains materials related to piano teacher Charles Stanton Benson. It includes personal diaries, photographs, and estate papers, as well as music-related items, such as compositions, recital programs, student ledgers, and newspaper clippings on his studio. 
Research notes, drafts and drawings of the genus Saxifraga, including approximately 350 drawings of Saxifraga specimens at the herbariums of the University of Montana, the University of Wyoming, and Washington State University.
This collection consists primarily of photographs (black and white prints) documenting the construction of the Dworshak Dam on the North Clearwater River, Idaho.
Project reports, master's thesis and dissertation, and other scholarship by Leroy C. Olsen, professor of education at Washington State University.
A small collection is made up of print materials and reel-to-reel audio tapes related to workshops on racism held at Washington State University in 1970-1971.
Includes an additional copy of the manuscript entitled "Reminiscences of Benjamin (Ben) Burgunder: about 1916." Same text of 15 pages. Burgunder's material is also identified as "Reminiscences of a pioneer," 1920.
Correspondence and notes about the Carlock Family.
World War II memoir (photocopied transcription) of Donald E. Bennett, Co. C, 411th Infantry Regiment, 103rd Division, 7th Army.
Manuscript customs certificates for American goods shipped from San Francisco to Victoria, B.C. Includes seal of customs, Vancouver Island.
Chiefly typed letters, signed. Includes seven letters to Stafford from editor Thomas Parkinson.
Correspondence, research notes and teaching materials. Some materials concern research on expectations and business cycles.
Soundview Pulp Company minutes, reports, and notices of the trustees, directors, officers and shareholders meetings.
This collection consists of records related to the Panhellenic Council at Washington State University, as well as a small amount of papers related to the Western Regional Panhellenic Council.
Beginning in 1931, the United States Department of Agriculture began cooperative studies with the State College of Washington. Cooperative research projects have involved matters such as the development of plant varieties, control of plant diseases, control of weeds, and the production of seeds. In the years from 1931 to 1970, attention focused on cereals, especially wheat. Some investigations involved grasses.
Correspondence, clippings, poster, and photocopies and transcripts of correspondence by and about the Eells, their missionary work in Oregon and among the Spokane Tribe, and the 1847 Whitman Massacre.
Ethel M. Womack papers, primarily travel albums, diaries, and collected pamphlets and memorabilia from vacations.
Old family papers, consisting of Johnson and Crawford family material. Includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, account statements, real estate documents, and wills.
Paper read at the Annual Meeting of the Society of American Archivists, October 25, 1938.
Manuscript map of the Battle of James Island, better known as the Battle of Secessionville, 16 June 1862, drawn by Hazard Stevens.
A letter by poet George Crabbe to H. Crewfoot, requesting a statement of his debt, unknown year, December 10.
A thesis written by Douglas L. Kerr looking at the history of the Educational Theatre Program at the State College of Washington, 1923-1946.
Diary kept at Sturgis, Michigan, during the Civil War. Includes 2 pages of correspondence between Sam R. Sumner and E.O. Holland re: the keeping of the diary.
Autobiography and novels, primarily relating to his China experiences, also letters from his son, Humphrey.
Autograph letter, signed, from Virginia Woolf to the art historian H. R. Wackrill, thanking him for sending her a copy of his book The Inscription over the Gate, a study of William Blake's watercolor of Dante and Virgil at the gate of Hell.
Maps and drawings related to providing greater handicapped access to WSU and its facilities in the 1970s and 1980s.
Specification reports, correspondence, and other administrative files related to the development of WSU Facilities from 1965-1979.
Notes, clippings and scrapbooks on dramatic and literary topics, many prepared for classroom use. Also an autographed pamphlet from former student E.R. Murrow and copies of the Anderson memorial booklet (1942).
This collection consists of the papers of the Webb family of Pullman, Washington, mostly related to Everett M. Webb and Louise Ott Webb, with a small amount related to their children, Elizabeth, Richard, and Dorothy.
Collection consists of ephemera collected by Frank Abe related to Japanese American redress for the forced expulsion and incarceration of Japanese and Japanese Americans during World War II.
Signed holograph concerning the use of pack saddles.
Poems written by James E. Lindsay. Includes handwritten notes by the author. Written in Pullman, Washington.
1673 manuscript by Thomas Bromley on typology and symbolism in the Bible.
Letters to Charles Sturgeon and others.
Bob Wethern (1921-2008) was a journalist and writer based in the Pacific Northwest. This collection consists primarily of Bob Wethern's research materials, notes, and drafts related to two substantial but unfinished writing projects.
Files from the ASWSU ranging from about 1999-2001. Files include bills, agendas, resolutions, and minutes.
48 collected postcards primarily of student life and the campus of Washington State College, dating from 1909-1911.
Land grant to Kimball B. Mercer, Washington County, Oregon, in 1866.
Typescript, compiled by L. D. Leeper, of reminiscences of pioneers of Southeastern Washington State. Including accounts of J. M. Brown, Omer Flemming, John L. Knox, Alex McGregor, Charles E. Ray, R. D. Smith, Mrs. John Splater, and J. I. Wigen.
The administrative meeting notes, and correspondence with law enforcement, from the Health and Safety subcommittee of the University Senate in the years 1956-1969.
Correspondence and records of the Northwest Horticultural Council, relating to the opening of the Northwest fruit industry to new markets, materials on railroad rates, Interstate Commerce Commission rules and rulings, council bulletins, testimonies before Congress, fruit statistics, and personal records of Ernest Falk.
The Owen Science and Engineering Library Dedication, 1979 March 29, consists of one cassette tape.
These letters were addressed from Mary Gordon in Crowborough, Sussex, to Mrs. Kenneth McKenzie in Princeton, New Jersey, August 6, 1936, to September 1, 1936.
Hearings and testimony before the Interstate Commerce Commission regarding the merger between the Atlantic Coast Line and Seaboard Airline railroads; also briefs before and decisions of United States District and Supreme Courts; and judicial correspondence and other papers of E. H. Burgess, representative of the Mercantile Safe Deposit and Trust Company of Baltimore, a participant in the merger action.
This biography of Cynthia Catherine Holbrook is titled "Statement of my past life." It presents pioneer reminiscences, chiefly of the Almota, Washington, area.
This collection contains research records and professional papers of Dr. James S. Englund, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Washington State University.
A biography of Yeend, soprano with the New York City Opera Company, author unknown.
Botanical notes of botanist Wilhelm Suksdorf.
This collection consists of a single item: a ledger containing the financial records of a Bridgeport, Washington, lumber yard.
Signed holograph by William Makepeace Thackeray to a Mr. Gibson, undated.
The collection consists mainly of memoranda, correspondence, minutes, and reports of the Washington State University Agricultural Engineering Department. The bulk of the material dates from 1947-1973, during June Roberts' departmental chairmanship.
This typescript by Lester B. Vincent is titled "The Story of Yakima's Struggle to Become a Council-Manager City."
Washington State Board of Natural Resources records.
This collection consists of audio recordings (eight audiocassettes) and transcription of an oral history interview of John B. Hitchbook by Nancy Talbot Doty in 2010.
This collection includes papers of Edward F. and Xerpha Mae McCulloch Gaines consisting of letters between them, correspondence with their children, other correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs, research notes for both Edward. and Xerpha, a few professional papers, and some genealogical information.
This collection consists of a single item: "Problems and Procedures of Demonstrating the Presence of an Early Assemblage at the Little's Landing Site," by Michael G. Avey (master's thesis for M.A. in Anthropology, Washington State University; photocopy).
Pamphlets describing and promoting Deaconess Hospital and Deaconess School of Nursing in Spokane, WA; also commencement programs.
Typescript of Annie G. Gragg's reminiscences on frontier life in Washington State.
This collection consists of 16mm films of veterinary surgical procedures, mostly on horses and dogs, including Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew. It also contains logs with procedures performed and associated film roll numbers.
Typescript letter about the Inland Empire Teachers Association. This letter is addressed from Noah David Showalter in Cheney, Washington, to R.N. Wright in Lewiston, Idaho, February 26, 1911.
This letter, dated December 21, 1920, was addressed to Mr. and Mrs. A.C. Kenrick of Walsham House, Surrey, by Carol Lumholtz.
Weaving pattern, photographs, and correspondence for the WSU cougar head logo, created by Randall Johnson, the original designer of the logo.
18 ft. Summary Correspondence, research notes and drafts relative to taxonomic and genetic research, especially of the genera Allium, Calochortus and Tragopogon. A large portion of the papers are concerned with Ownbey's observations of the genetic behavior of the species of Tragopogon, and his discovery of the apparent evolution of new species under natural conditions through the mechanism of chromosomal doubling. Significant correspondents include: Edgar Anderson, Lincoln Constance, Arthur Cronquist, Charles Heiser, C. Leo Hitchcock, Phillip Munz, Gerald Ownbey, and G. Ledyard Stebbins, Jr.
Letter by poet George Crabbe to his son, the Reverend George Crabbe, 1825 April 7.
Letter, with envelope, to Charley Ratcliffe's sweetheart, Louise Bressler, in Belleville, Illinois. In the letter, Ratcliffe mentions a woman attacked by Native Americans and the attempt to lynch the Indians in Cheney, Washington.
Soil Conservation Service oral history program.
Black and white photographs, primarily of Camp Manitowish, later Camp Easter Seal or Camp Larson, a camp on the west shore of Lake Coeur d’Alene where Washington State College ran an annual summer camp for handicapped children.
Minutes of annual and semi-annual meetings of the Washington Public Utility Commissioners' Association, executive board meetings, special committee reports; also 3 p. concerning the Public Power Conference.
Autograph album with autographs and photographs of Chinese students at Washington State University.
This collection contains material related to Richard Old's research on noxious weeds from.
This typescript comprises a speech identified as, "David Thompson in Montana: Given at the Sesquicentennial Celebration of David Thompson at Sandpoint in August, 1959."
This collection consists of papers of Willis B. Merriam and Florence Merriam of Pullman, Washington.
This collection contains papers of Clarence B. Harston (1911-2009), a Soils and Water Conservationist with Washington State University Cooperative Extension.
Articles of incorporation, minutes, and legal papers of the Oakdale Lumber Company, a sawmill operator at La Center, Washington, 1906-1913.
The Executive Budget for Washington State University comprises both a capital budget for new construction and similar projects, and an operating budget for existing and new research and educational programs. The collection contains of minutes, agendas, and supplementary materials from meeting of the WSU Executive Budget Committee during the 1990-2003 fiscal years.
Autograph letter by Rose Macaulay, signed, discussing Fletcher's fiction writing.
Statistics, legal documents, correspondence, and reports related to the WSU Affirmative Action Office and Equal Employment Opportunities from 1972-1977.
This typescript by Earl Edward Wegner is titled "Report of European Trip."
Collection of photographs from the Bill Walter Studio, Colfax, Washington. The bulk of the collection is safety film negatives, but it also contains many photographs, some oversize and panoramic.
This collection consists of correspondence, photographs, and miscellaneous items related to Save Our Summers.
This collection consists of over 200 architectural drawings by Spokane architect Kenneth Brooks.
Personal accounts, as well as business accounts of the Medical Lake Pharmacy.
Papers of the Washington State Grange, including: Miscellaneous mimeographed announcements, letters; Grange newspapers and magazines; Grange rosters; annual sessions proceedings; three scrapbooks of news clippings from the Grange News.
Estimated cost breakdowns and specs on updates to systems and WSU buildings, as well as general administrative information from the Facilities Planning department. Records cover 1983-1990.
Undated, signed envelope addressed to John Agg, Esq., in Washington City, complete with wax seal.
This collection contains the records of the Southwestern Washington Research Unit.
Research files from the WSU Research Division the from 1940s to 1970. Includes research study files, investigative research, specimen preparation documents, and Model Experiments.
Short stories and essays by William C. Kruegel, Bursar of Washington State College.
Correspondence, birth and death records from Carroll family Bible; notes on the Carroll family, circa 1869-1937.
The Armand Mauss Papers consists of research materials produced and collected by Dr. Armand Mauss, a retired Professor of Sociology and Religious Studies at Washington State University. The materials pertain to his research on student activism in the San Francisco Bay Area, mission work in Seattle’s Skid Road, and alcohol studies in Washington State, all ranging from the 1960s to the 1970s. Materials include journal and newspaper articles, survey and questionnaire data, photographs, correspondence, and miscellaneous conference files and printed materials.
This item comprises a membership list for the Pullman, Washington, branch of Washington Society in October 22, 1897.
This collection consists of papers of Dorys Grover.
This collection includes ephemeral materials, mainly printed items, on a wide variety of subjects, acquired from the mid-20th century onward from various sources.
This letter is addressed from Sarah G. Smith in Kamiah to Mrs. Eells and Mrs. Walker, December 18, 1839. Signed holograph about Mrs. J.S. Griffen. Typed copy included.
A list of books to be presented by Mrs. A.E. Drucker in memory of her father, Captain E.S. Barstow, to Washington State College Library.
Account book of Robinson and Peterson, a freight business based in Spokane County, Washington.
The collection consists of commercial portraits of Washington State University College of Veterinary Medicine students.
Records from the Faculty Executive Status Committee from 1969-1972. Records include meeting minute files, correspondence, and reports.
This undated typescript is identified as "Abstract of Title: Descriptions and ownership of the west five miles of state road no. 8 district."
The Leo K. Bustad Papers consist of the personal and professional papers of Leo K. Bustad, the former dean of the Washington State University (WSU) College of Veterinary Medicine.
Signed holograph which quotes E. Chapman's description of the Navajo Indians while trying to establish if these are Welsh Indians who sailed from Britain, ca. 1170.
Typescript transcription of diary written on the Oregon Trail, 1851. Also route notes by Lynn Irish and map of the route by Robert E. Lee, ca. 1980.
Correspondence, diaries, financial and legal papers, photographs and lantern slides and other papers of Howard's experiences as a gold miner in the Klondike, 1898-1905.
Interviews and records from Washington State University Centennial Oral History Project.
Scrapbook of sculptor Betty Feves, containing photographs and drawings from her LaCrosse High School and Washington State College days. Includes images of Clyfford Still and Alexander Archipenko.
Football programs of Washington State University, also as Washington State College, dating from 1906 to present.
This collection consists of records of the Common Ministry at Washington State University and some of its predecessor groups.
This item is titled "Coal Resources of the Matanuska Valley, Alaska" and dated December 2, 1905.
Administrative reports, safety reports, and memoranda related to safety improvements in several dormitories on the WSU Pullman campus from 1991-1993.
Signed typescript that concerns U.N. charter and autographs. This letter is addressed from New York to Howes Norris, Jr., in Vinyard Haven, Massachusetts, and dated August 9, 1945.
The collection contains aphorisms, correspondence, photographs, pictorials, journals, writings and translations by and about Lewis Thompson.
Lantern slides were used for instructional and promotional purposes at WSU early in the century.
Homestead patents given to Nancy, Joseph and John Pogue, Okanogan Co., Washington, 1901-1905.
Signed holograph written on letterhead of the New York Women's Suffrage Society. Letter from Lillie Devereux Blake (New York) is addressed to "My Dear Prince."
Administrative and financial reports, correspondence, memoranda, and building plans related to WSU Facilities Operations and the Physical Plant from 1999-2003.
Chiefly letters by Edith Sitwell to Mr. W. Sunderland.
The Buckley Dairy Files from Facilities Operations department from 1997-2000. Files include the Buckley water system agreement, and the water line submittal.
Correspondence, minutes, technical reports and other papers of a cooperative research effort seeking alternatives to hazardous chemicals in insecticides for fruit crops. The principal correspondent is project director E.J. Newcomer.
This collection consists of approximately 600 photographs and photograph negatives of the inland Northwest, believed to have been taken by Charles Yocom. Charles Frederick Yocom (1914-1985) was an Assistant Professor of Wildlife Biology at Washington State College in the early 1950s. Photographs document the nesting sites and migratory patterns of Canada geese, particularly relating to geographical features such as lakes, rivers, and tributaries in the eastern portion of Washington state.
The collection includes historic corporate records, photographs, and ephemera of Tree Top, Inc.
Meeting minutes, memoranda, and guides to the WSU libraries related to the Library Student Orientation Committee, a subsect of the University Senate Library Committee, from about 1976-1979.
Some considerations regarding the establishment of a basic college library in the Ernest Holland Library building (Washington State University); a report prepared by Hanna Elsa Krueger, May 15, 1952. Includes committee minutes and memoranda.
This collection consists of daily sales and accounting ledgers, inventories, catalogs, music books, brochures, and ephemera from the Hirzel Music Company, a family owned business in Lewiston, Idaho.
Correspondence, clippings, pamphlets, brochures and other papers re: activities at Washington State University, Arthur Walsh's father's treatment at Mayo Clinic, and his military career.
The records consist of meeting minutes, hall handbooks, guest book, dance programs, logs of activities and a social events record. The logs contain summaries of events and activities along with newspaper clippings, pictures, dance programs and favors. The social events record has details of each event, such as the menu and names of committee members, kept for the Student Activities Committee.
The Leila Wall Hunt Papers include articles on home economics, published and in typescript; student notebooks on sewing and meal planning, 1906-1907; awards, certificates and diplomas; clippings; photographs; and donor correspondence, 1963-1966.
Files from the International Programs department from 1987-1997. Files contain reports and studies on the Jordan project, as well as the Mali Animal Productivity and Export Project. WSU entered the Jordan Project with the aid of the Ministry of Agriculture.
This collection contains papers of the George (1905-1998) and Clara (1911-1994) Thallheimer.
Legal papers, deeds, indentures, insurance policies, receipts, etc. Also reminiscences, teaching records and contracts of Mrs. Bessie Fullerton Hunt.
These typescripts are identified as Nez Percé hymnal texts, circa 1935.
The collection consists of ninety-eight black and white photographs, one black and white montage, and two color photographs of Edward R. Murrow. Images span Murrow's life, from boyhood scenes to college, and through his career with CBS. Also included are three pieces of correspondence addressed to E.R. or Janet Murrow, a New York Times advertisement for E.R. Murrow and CBS, and three articles from the news magazines Time, Look, and Newsweek. A collection of twenty-two black and white photographs taken in 1942 by the Hutchison Studio, Pullman, Washington, has been added to the Murrow collection.
Contains bound volumes of annual reports and project reports.
Certificates, official correspondence of the Colville Agency and other papers re: medical service to the Indians. Also roll of the Colville Indians, Inchelium District, ca. 1928.
Typescript transcripts, prepared by C. C. Van Arsdol's grandson, Ted Van Arsdol, of correspondence and reports dating from 1887-1961 about railroad construction in Washington and Idaho, construction of Lewiston Grade Highway, and other consulting services.
Correspondence, school papers, notes, etc., re: the education of LaVere Smith.
Typescript reminiscences from Mrs. Kate Roberts Williams, re: frontier life first in Ohio and then in Washington.
The Mari Tsuruyama Okumura Collection consists of photographs of the Tsuruyama family from 1936-1946, including photographs from the family's incarceration at Heart Mountain and Tule Lake Relocation Centers. Prior to World War II, the Tsuruyama family lived in San Jose, California.
Personal reminiscences in author's handwriting.
Original wheat trial observations, ranging from 1910-1955, conducted by Washington State College (now Washington State University).
Administrative reports, meeting minutes, and project proposals related to the WSU departments of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture.
This typescript by Venona Winder Swartz is titled "Standards for cooking vegetables in the electric oven: Purnell research work in home economics 1929-1930."
Records of a subscription library at Florence, Idaho, 1862-1863.
View of Palouse Falls, Washington. Color lithograph removed from Report on the Construction of a Military Road from Fort Walla-Walla to Fort Benton, by Capt. John Mullan, 1863. After an original drawn by G. Sohon. Lithograph produced by Bowen and Co., lithographers, Philadelphia.
Records of the Mount St. Helene's volcano eruption from the Office of Campus and Community relations ranging from 1974-1995.
Papers and photographs, most relating to the opening of the major WSU Pullman Libraries: Holland, Owen, and Terrell.
The Frank Joseph Kottke Papers consists of materials correspondence and other records created and collected by Kottke over his adult life. The collection includes correspondence with his family during World War II, records generated from his position on the Citizen's Advisory Committee for Pullman Public Transit, and letters to Washington state politicians in the United States legislature. Dr. Kottke was a professor of economics at Washington State University from 1961-1979.
This collection consists of papers and correspondence related to the Friends of the Museum of Art, Washington State University.
Photocopy of a manuscript diary written from New York State to Seattle, Washington, 1907.
A paper presented at the regional meeting, A.I.M.E., Spokane, Washington, September 28, 1934.
Mimeographs of the records of the Spokane chapter of the American Institute of Architects, 1964-1973.
The Axel Leonard Melander Papers include clippings, notes, and manuscripts, 1903-1924--re: insects and diseases, such as typhoid.
Land deed to James T. Crewdson of Spokane Falls, Washington Territory, for the heirs of Sarah M. Garrett, deceased.
This undated manuscript is identified as "The Battle of New Ulm," 1862.
Diary of Oregon pioneer, Solomon Strong, 1869-1873.
Poems, letters and drawings sent to Vita Sackville-West. In the letters, Tennant thanks her for her friendship and appreciation of his work. Healso discusses gardening. Includes one photograph of Tennant inscribed to Vita.
Holograph letter, signed, from Raphael Hoyle, an artist associated with the Wilkes Expedition (The United States South Seas Exploring Expedition), to Commodore Charles Ridgely, in advance of sailing.
Records, papers, correspondence, and publications related to the Washington State University College of Pharmacy and Dean Allen I. White.
The series is comprised of newspaper clippings concerning personnel promotions, policy changes, recruiting efforts, presentations of awards, and other events of cadet interest.
Correspondence, notes, school exercise book, invitation to an execution, chiefly Ohio and Pennsylvania, 1872-1903.
The collection comprises audio and video produced by, for, or about Washington State University, dating from 1930 up to 2005. However, the majority of the media is from the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s. Included in the collection are news stories, promotional videos, recordings of significant performances, events, and speakers, and unfinished stock footage used in creating these and other productions.
A View-Master is basically a stereoscopic viewer designed to view seven pairs of film images, rather than pairs of printed photographs that a traditional stereoscopic viewer would view. The collection consists of 200 View-Master reels and one View-Master viewer (Model C, black). The images collected here primarily cover the western United States, the northeastern USA and southeastern Canada, and Mexico.
Correspondence and other papers, musical sketches and scores, recordings and microfilms, also paintings and drawings.
Includes deeds, agreements to property owned by Murray D. Henry. Also includes other types of documents related to his property investments in Pullman.
This collection contains personal and professional papers of Dr. Samuel H. Smith during his service as the eighth President of Washington State University, from 1985 to 2000.
Bound letterbook for Sibson, Quackenbush, and Company; ledger of the Pullman Mercantile Company; clipping about L.M. Ringer.
This collection contains records of the Pullman Fortnightly Club, from 1893 to 2019
Correspondence and printed material relating to Hill's activities as school teacher, administrator, legislator; United States Representative, speaker to secular and religious groups, author of "Letters to the Editor" in diverse newspapers, Indian agency superintendent, Radio Farm Program reporter and commentator, and consulting appraiser for the Columbia Basin Project.
A collection of administrative reports, legislative and legal documents, financial reports related to the WSU Office of Equity and Diversity from 1982-2007.
The papers of Washington State University Political Science Professor and Department Chair, H. Paul Castleberry. Materials are concerned with teaching of political science, and with research on international affairs, world politics, the foreign policy of the United States, politics and government in the Middle East, the Vietnam War, professional associations for political science, and to Castleberry's service on the Eastern Washington Area Agency for Aging.
Included in this collection are Industrial Workers of the World charts, pamphlets, songs, leaflets, a blank membership card and delegate credentials, and a letter listing pamphlets and prices, 1918-1967. A chart shows the structure of the industrial system. One pamphlet is titled "I.W.W." Songs include "One Big Union of All Workers;" "Proletarian and Petit-Burgeois" by Austin Lewis; "The Advancing Proletariat," by Abner Woodruff. A leaflet is titled "What sort of union is the I.W.W. asking you to build?"
Collection contains correspondence, financial reports, preparatory notes for productions, programs, photographs, etc. There are also scrapbooks and programs related to the annual activities day.
Administrative reports, operations and maintenance manuals, and memoranda related to the WSU Physical Plant from 1994-1997.
This item is identified as a reconnaissance erosion survey of the Goldendale area in Washington state, June 11, 1935.
Chiefly correspondence from Elizabeth Marion.
This collection consists of records of the Pullman (WA) Investment Club, 1991-2005.
Documents, certificates and other papers of the Price family. Includes letters from Eliza B. Garfield and Lucretia R. Garfield; map of Little Sioux Township, Harrison County, Iowa, by Barzillai Price.
The Patti Hirahara Collection consists primarily of newspapers and magazine articles pertaining to the collection of photographs taken by her father, Frank, and her grandfather George Hirahara. The collection also contains materials about Patti and general information about the Hirahara family.
This typescript is titled, "Stevens County fifty years ago: Tom Graham tells adventures of pioneer settlers in Colville." It includes a foreword by C.S. Kingston, an index, and a letter to Mary Jamieson.
Booklists, advertisements, Christmas cards and other material from the Cuala Press; some with manuscript notes of Elizabeth Yeats.
Correspondence, project proposals, and reports related to the modernization of the WSU Powerplant from 2003-2006.
Papers related to scientist Charles Glen King, including speeches, ephemeral publications, and miscellaneous items.
Gustav Bliesner (1910-1994) was an electrical engineer and an expert on rural electrification, sprinkler systems, and hydroelectric dams. He consulted on industrial and military projects, and on electrical systems for the United States space program. The collection is comprised of Gustav Bliesner's scrapbooks, journals, correspondence, professional documents, office files, along with a large quantity of miscellaneous collected material, primarily printed ephemera.
The collection primarily consists of black and white, outdoor photographs of Alaskan scenes and autographed portraits of Byrd and Amundsen, taken by the Lomen Brothers of Nome, Alaska, 1920-1932.
Programs and photographs from theatrical productions produced by Washington State University from the 1920s to 2010s. Also included are departmental papers, programs from regional theatre groups, and student theses.
Printed proof of an agreement to create a non-profit cooperative association, the Washington Wheat Growers Association, and a related corporation, the Washington Growers Warehousing Corporation. The purpose of the association was " ... for co-operative marketing, for eliminating speculation and waste and for stabilizing the food markets in the interests of the growers and the public and in accordance with similar obligations undertaken by other growers."
Office and administrative files from the department of Agriculture and Home Economics from 1975-1985.
Papers of Bruce McFadden, Professor of Biochemistry at Washington State University.
Research records related to agricultural projects in Lesotho conducted by WSU and USAID.
Correspondence, photographs, postcards and other papers received by August Gustavus Rosen, an immigrant to Washington state, from his family in the Baltic States.
The E. O. Holland Radio Speech ("Should I go to College?"), 1940, consists of one cassette tape.
This manuscript is titled "Concerning the Cattle Industry of the Nez Percés prior to 1877" by Ralph L. Williams.
The Eastern Washington Historical Media collection contains audio and video documenting eastern Washington state life, primarily focusing on farming. 
This letter from Richard Olney (1835-1917) is dated August 22 with no included year.
Correspondence, reports, government documents, statistics, unpublished papers, reprints, clippings, memoranda, student papers, and other materials related to teaching, researching, writing, and consulting about transportation economics, particularly railroads and the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Files from the WSU International Programs Development Office on various trips and projects from 1979-1989.
The Esther Pond Smith Papers contain research, notes, studies, and publications related to work simplification, time and motion, and home economics. Esther Pond Smith worked for the Extension Service and was faculty in the home economics (euthenics) department of Washington State College.
Correspondence, principally with George S. Canfield, John S. Beall, and others; notes, maps, deeds, and other papers concerning real estate transactions throughout the Pacific Northwest, 1915-1916.
Includes general office records, correspondence, budgets, course materials, and conference proceedings, 1911-1958; Summer Session Records, Class Grade Records Books and In Service Teacher Preparation (ISTP) Records.
Annual expenditure reports and statements related to to WSU campus operations and buildings, ranging from 1949-1981.
Correspondence of the WSU Foundation from 1983-1987. Correspondence with colleges within WSU as well as with individuals and alumni.
Signed typescript about William Thomson's request for change in the Department of the Interior's ruling in timber-culture land grants.
Papers from the Classified Staff Association from 1978-1982.
1960 account of emigration to the West, and of Latah, Washington.
This undated typescript is identified as a bibliography of authors in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States.
Written in memory of Robert McCrosky, former State College of Washington Board of Regents member (1897-1905, 1909-1922).
The typescript, dated April 19, 1888, is titled "Colton."
Available here are the professional papers, predominantly from the 1970s, of Washington State University library media specialist and educational technologist Gerald R. Brong. The collection comprises correspondence, papers for publication and presentation, materials from meetings including the 1979 White House Conference on Library and Information Services, and documents related to the work of statewide and national task forces, of professional associations, and of Library Faculty at Washington State University.
The records of the Washington State University Department of Anthropology includes reports, proposals, materials related to the graduate program, departmental minutes, and an accreditation report.
The Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project, 1979-1986, aimed to meet the needs of the Western Sudan by: providing training; improving the agricultural research capabilities of four Western provinces; and raising the standard of living for subsistence farmers and pastoralists. The records of the Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project include travel records, travel reports, field notes, quarterly reports, financial records, and correspondence, both from on-campus and in-country.
Two-color print of a woman wearing an elaborate hat.
Receipts, bills, certificates, clippings, and other professional papers, 1827-1887.
WSU Physical Plant records regarding the WSU Animal Sciences Building from 1994-1998. Includes administrative files, grounds conditions, cost proposals, and reports.
Collection consists of 22 letters and 2 pieces of ephemera from the correspondence between Dean Royal D. Sloan of the College of Engineering and a former student, principally during World War II.
Papers of Catherine May Bedell, former member of the House of Representatives, related to her activities as a public official after leaving elective office. Most of the material relates to her work as a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission in the 1970s.
This item comprises a typescript recording the Dairy Production Control Meeting in Portland, Oregon, on April 9-10, 1934.
Papers of rural sociologist and Washington State University faculty member Carl F. Reuss (primarily publications).
The material relates to the conduct of the "Management Review and Analysis Program" study of 1974, job classification studies in 1972-74 and the Commission on the Status of Women during 1971-72.
The collection consists of paper currency, scrip, and one bond. Most of the items were issued by the Confederate States of America or individual states of the Confederacy. The collection also includes two specimens of scrip (a substitute for currency), one issued by the Ladd and Company plantation on the island of Kauai circa 1839-1844, and the other issued by the United States Army circa 1860s.
This collection includes documents, glass plate negatives, photographs, and lantern slides of fruit, orchards, and other agricultural subjects dating from 1900 to 1915. These were created by Walter Thornber during his time as professor of horticulture with Washington State University and their Agricultural Experiment Station, and as a horticulturalist in the Lewiston-Clarkston valley.
Typescript transcripts of correspondence, legal papers, deeds, diaries, notes, and other papers of the Oppenheimer Brothers, especially supplying and working freight for the army, Colville and Marcus, Washington, 1859-1897.
Typescript about leasing of grazing lands by the Northern Pacific Railway Company; enclosure: letter to Will C. Barnes.
This typescript comprises the 1882-1883 register of membership for the Elberton United Brethren Church--a Moravian church in Washington state.
This collection consists of a nearly-complete set of annual programs of The Wranglers, photographs, and a scrapbook. In addition to event schedules for each academic year, the annual programs include lists of current and former members. The collection also includes a small number of programs from the group's annual Ladies' Night banquet, and programs from a Wranglers group at Kansas State College.
Charles Gounod signed holograph concerning Gounod's brother-in-law's illness.
This collection contains papers of Gertrude M. (Bodean) and Roy E. Spencer, dated between 1941 and 1975.
This typescript presents as it appeared in the New North West in 1878
This typescript comprises an annual report created in 1937 by the United States Works Progress Administration, Index and Clipping Bureau, for Project #8102 in Washington state.
Photographs of mines and mining facilities around Taft, Idaho. Some camp facilities are labeled, as are the St. Lawrence, Bell of the West, Silver Moon Gulch, Success, and Golden Chariot Mines, c. 1918 - 1929.
Manuscript notebook of cures, remedies, and medicines for horses.
Papers of Washington State University Range Management Specialist Ben F. Roche.
The Washington State University Cooperative Extension Service was founded in 1913. The collection consists of Cooperative Extension Service records relating to publications and new releases relating to agricultural issues.
Correspondence, memoranda, and administrative files from the WSU Controllers Office pertaining to the budget from 1908-1970.
Mortgage between the Norwegian Evangelical Lutheran Church of Spokane, Washington, and the Church Extention (sic) Board of the Synod for the Norwegian Evangelical Church of America for $3,000.00.
The collection comprises audio and video produced by, for, or about Washington State University, dating from the 1950s to 2005.
One envelope, labeled "Paid, Wells, Fargo And Co., Over our California and Coast Routes." Addressed to Messrs. Schwabacher Brothers, Walla Walla, W. T. (Washington Territory).
This typescript, dated circa 1955, is titled, "Farmington, past and present."
Agricultural release notices for plants dating from 1975 to 2000, as well a minutes from the Cereal Variety Release Committee, 1997 to 2004.
This undated typescript is titled, "Erosion in Its Relation to Land Use in the Pacific Northwest."
The papers of Ralph Sundquist consist of correspondence, business documents, reports, enclosures, and brochures related to agriculture and his civic interests.
Two albums containing approximately 1100 mounted pencil sketches of church buildings in England by an unidentified artist, circa 1844-1901.
Correspondence, patent documents and reports, and advertisements for the Thomas weeder, 1911-1928.
The material in this collection relates to Carl Milton Brewster and Alfhild Nordby Brewster.
Manuscripts and typescript transcripts of articles written by Wakeman on the Whitmans and the Spaldings, and early missions in Washington and Idaho.
Linda Chism collection of documents (reproductions) related to aviators Cloyd and Audrey Artman of Oroville, Washington.
Document from Land Office Receiver, Walla Walla, Washington, 1877.
A general history of the Pacific Northwest, undated, and partially the memoir of the unidentified woman author.
This collection contains botanical papers of Ira C. Otis (1861-1938), combined with related papers of other scientists.
Records and research documents from Cooperative Extension Service from 1980-2002. Records include Agricultural Research Center binders, change in extension files, and memos.
Annual reports, weekly bulletins, and other papers of the Pullman Baptist Church (WA).
Autograph letter to his son, signed, about his health and family concerns. Also discusses "A New System of Geology."
This undated typescript by Frankie Lucile Miller Harder is titled "I remember grandpa: my story of the James M. Wright family."
This item is identified as a pass granted to J.F. McDonald, Seattle, February 9, 1886.
This collection consists of a single item, "The History and Folklore of the Kootenai Indians" (typescript) by Rosa E. Causton and White Otter, circa 1940.
Deed issued to Henry D. Edwards of Spokane Falls, Washington, May 1, 1902.
Commission of Justin Millard as surgeon of the Southern Battalion of the 2nd Regiment of Washington Territory Volunteers, signed by Isaac I. Stevens, governor of Washington Territory.
Frank Fraser Potter (1879-1959) was a member of the faculty at Washington State College from 1912 to 1949. He was WSC's first professor of philosophy. Irene Eleanora Michet (1889-1971) joined the faculty of the WSC English Department in 1927. She married Frank Potter in 1929. Both of the Potters were actively involved in the campus community. This collection consists of materials related to Frank and Irene Potter which came into the possession of Ruth Slonim, their colleague and friend, after Irene Potter's death.
This letter from Richard Wagner to Princess Carolyn von Sayn-Wittgenstein is accompanied by transcription and notes.
Memoranda, correspondence, brochures, and memorabilia related to the Washington State University Press from about 1923-1990.
Correspondence, memoranda, architectural contracts, and other financial and administrative reports related to several projects on the WSU campus from 1979-1988.
This letter, dated May 18, 1827, is from Bushrod Corbin Washington of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to Thomas B. Washington in Middletown, Connecticut.
Correspondence between members of the Driskell family and friends, primarily concerned with wartime experiences, 1849-1964.
Letter from John Smith Griffin to Alvin Thompson Smith, both Oregon missionaries.
Letter by John Cowper Powys, regarding Powys' novel "Weymouth Sands" to Reginald Addyers-Scott.
This collection consists of papers of the Stephen Aldrich family from the years 1791-1907.
This collection contains professional papers of Dr. Charles Gardner Shaw (1917-1998), who served as a professor and later chairman of the Department of Plant Pathology at Washington State University from 1947 to 1983.
Historiated initials by Mary Ellen Cross (27 items) created for J. F. Smithcors's 1957 book, "Evolution of the Veterinary Art."
Engineering Lab records from Building 23 from the Physical Plant. Records range from 1930-1983. Records include air conditioning instillation, tunnel modifications, and heating systems.
Manuscripts and printed form letters of copies received by Admiral Tyler, Commander-in-Chief at the Cape of Good Hope. Some regarding the Treaty of Ghent.
Materials about his teaching and research. Includes two films of research on bees which he produced.
Correspondence of F. W. Buchholz, texts of sermons, and clippings and photographs. In addition there are correspondence, diaries, certificates and other papers of Helena Frances Richter Spalding Buchholz and her step-daughter Effie L. Spalding.
Photographic slides depicting Native American life, some original and some reproductions of other materials. Of most interest are likely original archeological slides in the northwest and southwest series.
Certificate from the U. S. General Land Office at Spokane Falls, Washington Territory, to Samuel Forney. Includes Seal.
This collection consists of a single item, a typescript (photocopy) of an ethnography of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Lake area produced by Randy Bouchard and Dorothy I.D. Kennedy for the British Columbia Indian Language project in 1979.
James L. Stevens (1892-1971) best-known book, Paul Bunyan, a collection of "tall tales" about the legendary North American woodsman, was published by A. A. Knopf in 1925. After this early success, he regularly wrote and published stories, articles, and reviews in magazines and newspapers, and produced several more books, including Brawnyman (1926), Mattock (1927), Homer in the Sagebrush (1928), Saginaw Paul Bunyan (1932), Timber (1942), and Big Jim Turner (1948). This collection consists primarily of materials Warren L. Clare received from James Stevens while investigating Stevens's life and work for his Ph.D. dissertation.
Financial reports, administrative files, and various committee meeting notes related to Associated Students of Washington State University (ASWSU) from 1969-1982.
Letter to Lord Moira and engraved title-page plate, both concerning first publication of poetry, 1809; "Fragments of the Attic Chest," manuscript volume of miscellany, ca. 1830; letters and publications of biographer W.E.A. Axon, 1907-1908.
Signed presentation on wrapper. Reprinted from Scottish Geographical Magazine, v. 54, p. 236-239, with holograph additions and editing by author, Edward L. Ullman.
This collection consists of records of the Confluence Press, a publisher located in Lewiston, Idaho.
Correspondence, financial papers of various mining companies; engineers' reports on various mines; list of prospective investors in mining stocks in eastern Washington; financial newsletters.
Correspondence, including letters to Mr. Bowker, Mr. Valentine Smith, and an unnamed friend.
Typescript index created by V. F. Field "through the courtesy of The Adjutant General of the Washington National Guard, for the information of Libraries, Schools and individuals who are interested in the Military history of the Northwest" (from Field's accompanying transmittal letter).
Bank statements and newspaper clippings in a scrapbook based in the Spokane area of Washington state, 1914-1924.
This undated typescript is titled, "List of Beekeepers for the State of Washington."
Records of the Office of the President of the State College of Washington (later Washington State University), related to the presidency of Ernest O. Holland.
Sigmond Slonim was born in Russia in 1878 and died in Duluth, Minnesota in 1981. He came to America in 1901 where he finished his education, culminating in a law degree from St. Paul College of Law in 1913. He practiced law until his retirement in 1957. This collection consists of personal and professional papers of Sigmond and Lena Slonim which were kept by their daughter, Ruth Slonim. Most of the materials are related to Sigmond Slonim.
The collection consists of audio recordings of 1989 oral history interviews conducted with Philip and Neva Abelson by Linda Lilles, along with supporting documentation.
This collection includes yearbooks, clippings, photographs and other materials of and about the Wednesday Club, a women's literary society at Spokane, Washington.
Genealogical notes re: Davis family of Steptoe Butte, Washington, transcripts of a James Cashup Davis letter, 1873, and of a letter, 1877, of Mary Ann Davis regarding the Nez Percé War.
Includes letters received from England, clippings of the article "Duvall Immigrant" on the Taylor family's emigration from England, and other clippings and photographs of Duvall, Washington.
1994 Washington State University Commencement address given by Washington State Senator Patty Murray.
This typescript is titled "Personnel of County Wheat Production Control Associations, 1934-1935, State of Washington."
Includes handwritten note: "Address given at Vespers, Armistice Day, State College of Washington, November, 1933," and handwritten corrections by the author.
Correspondence with G.H. Plummer of the Northern Pacific Railway Company and A.J. Splawn concerning the cattle trade in Eastern Washington; used by Cotton in his Masters of Science thesis.
Typescript of an address by Harry E. Goldsworthy about the State College of Washington, 1900-1910.
Publicity materials including speeches, photos, and program and event brochures related to the opening of Washington State University's Veterinary Teaching Hospital in September of 1993.
These radio scripts, created by KHQ radio station in Spokane, Washington, are identified as "Trails of the great Northwest." They date from circa 1930.
Rolled drawings from remodels and renovations of a half dozen WSU owned buildings.
Included are correspondence, eligibility petitions, letters of intent, meeting minutes, financial information, and booklets from 1954 to 1983.
These two sheets comprise an application form for Oregon's Register of State Lands, La Grande District.
Signed holograph, with postscript by Sade Long, chiefly regarding farming in Oregon.
This collection consists of historical studies written by Jean Carol Davis, as well as a Truax family history compiled by Davis and Truax family photographs.
This collection consists of a photocopy of chapter five of Joe Smith's unpublished autobiography, "Joe's Dope."
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, drafts, reports, and other materials relating to her professional activities and administrative duties as Chief, Technical Services, 1950-1953, and Chief, Humanities, 1953-1970. Included are some papers of her successor, Ann Wierum.
Stereoscopes (also known as stereographs, or stereoscopic views) are generally sets of two photographs mounted side-by-side on cards, designed so that when looked at through a viewer they would appear three dimensional. The collection consists of stereoscopic cards and one viewer. While the images are mostly tourist in nature and cover much of the world, the images published by the Kinsey Photograph Studio (of Sedro-Woolley, WA) are all of Washington state's North Cascades.
1979 program of the Community Prayer Breakfast, Pullman, Washington, signed by the speaker Eldridge Cleaver.
Collection consists of photographic prints (some oversize) of actress/singer, Edith Newlin, her family and friends, and theatrical productions, including the Pullman Auditorium, circa 1890 - 1930.
This typescript by David Walker McDannald is titled "A Story of Crossing the Plains in 1865."
This typescript is titled, "Reminiscences of crossing the plains to Oregon in 1862."
This collection consists of a single item: a carved wood scrapbook recording the history of the Mountain Home School in Latah County, Idaho, 1892-1940.
This collection consists of a single document, a 1970 prospectus including financial data, organizational, facilities, and equipment information.
Administrative reports, financial documents, and contracts related to the WSU Physical Plant from about 1988-1993.
Undated railroad survey field notes; notebooks numbered 9 and 16. Book 9 labeled "Farmington-Princeton RR"; Book 16 labeled "Farmington-Leland RR." Surveyor not identified.
S. Judson Crandell's lecture outlines and notes for teaching college speech and communication classes at Washington State University.
Records of knitting classes sponsored by women's clubs to make clothing for soldiers, circa 1917.
Report produced by the Labor Study Committee of the Northwest Electric Light and Power Association (NELPA), compiling data from a questionnaire "covering wages, working conditions and the general labor situation in Association territory."
Ledgers, account books and other papers related to farming in Whitman County, Washington.
Journal, veterinary recipe book and letter (1850-1858) from George H. Dadd about the price of veterinary textbooks and entering veterinary practice.
This collection contains music recordings from the Jim Morris estate.
Project-related records principally of BOAS, Inc., a Seattle-based cultural resource management firm founded by Astrida Blukis Onat in 1982 and still an active corporation thirty-five years later. Includes correspondence, field notes and maps, some artifacts, photographs, media, and final reports prepared for contracting agencies.
Assorted WSU track and Women's Athletic Department films.
Miscellaneous single manuscript leaves on parchment and vellum from a variety of Catholic religious and liturgical texts, most based on music, including Books of Hours, Missals, and Graduals.
This collection consists of scrapbooks containing records of the Spokane Holstein Club, from 1968 to 1974 and 1976 to 1987.
This letter, dated July 8, 1936, is addressed from Victoria Sackville-West in Kent to Mr. Barrett. It acknowledges his letter about Sackville-West's biography of St. Joan.
This collection consists of a single item, an untitled paper (typescript) on early telephone service in Washington State, described on the first page as: "Paper read on February 22, 1962, by L. K. Wiese, retired Pacific Northwest Bell employee, as part of the Northwest History Lecture Series of the Puget Sound Council for the Social Sciences in conjunction with the Seattle Historical Society and the Seattle Museum of History and Industry."
This collection consists of samples of the printing processes and work of the Ye Galleon Press.
Event posters, promotional material, administrative reports, and budget reports related to the ASWSU from 1964-1984.
1959 letter concerning founding of Neill Public Library, Pullman, Washington.
Chiefly letters from Waldo E. Austin to David Johnson.
Advertisement for Kinnear's general store at Sprague, Washington Territory, circa 1883.
Committee meeting notes and faculty reports from the WSU English Department from 1947-2001.
Papers of Joanne Washburn, including Title IX report, women's physical education program information and events, women's intercollegiate athletics materials, news articles and court reports, meeting notes and minutes, correspondence, sports photographs, and a small quantity of collected materials.
The Si Williams Agricultural Papers consist of catalogs, brochures and other materials focused on agriculture and livestock in the Pacific Northwest, predominantly as it relates to sales and marketing.
This collection is primarily comprised of letters addressed to Washington State University’s Board of Regents from alumni and community members alarmed by the student protests that occurred at Washington State University in 1970 in response to U.S. military operations in Southeast Asia and other issues.
Building plans, architectural drawings, and administrative files related to construction projects related to Martin Stadium and the Intercollegiate Nursing Center (ICNE) at WSU from 1985-2010.
Correspondence, memoranda, and other administrative files related to the Vice Provost of Instruction dating from 1987-1993.
Cusick’s extant papers consist primarily of his field books, which doubled as the catalog for the second herbarium, and the draft list of the floral surveys he conducted about 1910.
These letters were addressed from Alice Hegan Rice in Louisville, Kentucky, to E.O. Holland in Pullman, Washington. They are dated August 17, 1935, and September 28, 1935. Included here are two booklets on Cole Young Rice and Alice Hegan Rice.
Letters from Ezra Strong to Solomon Strong, apparently in Oregon. Some items relative to the Mormon migration to the west.
Correspondence, meeting minutes, and foundational documents related to the Independent Board of Representatives (IBR) of WSU from about 1951-1962.
Packet of materials related to the Washington State Centennial Time Capsule, and a file of accompanying documentation.
Typed transcripts of correspondence between Mollie Clark and Leslie Lilly between 1891 and 1893, chiefly from Pullman, Wash. and Alsea, Or.
Field records of vegetation and soil in the Steppe Stands and the Forest Stands from Professor Rexford F. Daubenmire's research in eastern Washington and northern Idaho, collected between 1936 and 1970.
Autographed portrait and program of Alfred Cortot's concert, pasted into Chopin's Preludes, published by Schirmer's Library.
The papers of Elwood Kalin consist of notes, memoranda, correspondence, and various working papers regarding his experiences as a horticulturalist and with floral presentations.
Accounts, notes, mathematical problems, and diary entries from frontier Iowa, 1848-1853.
A family letter from F.C. Spearin to a nephew who was being moved to active service during World War I.
This collection contains five scrapbooks from the World War II period, created by members of VFW Post 3469 of Colfax, Washington.
Various portraits of the Chalcraft-Pickering family and glass lantern slides of the Chemawa Indian Training School near Salem, Oregon.
Journals detailing medical care on the WSU campus from 1916 to 1960.
This collection consists of: newspaper clippings, photographs, publications, refugee passports and other papers, including a volume of commemorative letters (1970), of a proponent of agricultural cooperatives.
18 photographs of steamboat scenes on Washington's Snake River, circa 1890-1922.
Typescript text includes an account of the founding of St. Joseph's Mission in Olympia, Washington.
The records consist of correspondence, memoranda, reports and attached materials of the State College of Washington (later Washington State University) Office of the President during the C. Clement French administration.
Personal letter from Margaret Stevens, wife of Washington State Governor Isaac Stevens, to Miss Mary Hazard.
Black and white photographs from 1954 to 1959 of the Washington State University chapter of the Pi Beta Phi sorority.
Collection includes minutes of both cabinet and hall meetings, and also hall handbooks.
Collection consists of images of Thomas S. Foley including Family and political photographs, campaign and related material, and international photographs as part of his Congressional Papers.
The Wildey "Bud" Kimball collection consists primarily of aerial photographs, in varying formats, taken by Kimball between 1959 and 1980. The majority of the photographs are from western Washington State. Of particular note are Kimball's detailed aerial color photographs of Mt. St. Helens before and after the May 18, 1980 eruption.
This paper by Herbert A. Seeman was prepared for an American Studies 513 class at Washington State University. It is a biography of Willis B. Merriam, professor of geography at the university.
Signed typescript letter, with envelope, by former President William H. Taft to Dr. Otis Holmes in Walla Walla, Washington.
Material concerning Robert Newell, including diary of 1868 and Lewiston Teller Extra of 1877, regarding Nez Perce War.
Poem with manuscript changes. Contains the words only. Was set to music by Charles Wakefield Cadman; verso of sheet with poem has Cadman's letterhead. Also postcard sent by Cadman to "Mrs. Winnie."
Biographical information and related correspondence about Jettchen Uhden Nelson's husband, veterinarian and Washington State University faculty member Sofus B. Nelson. Dr. Nelson was appointed as Professor of Veterinary Science in 1895; beginning in 1919 he served as Dean and Director of the Washington State University Extension Service. He was a fellow of the American Veterinary Medical Association.
Records relating to the beginning and first few years of Washington State University’s Building Arts Committee, and to projects it oversaw. The committee arose out of the state of Washington’s Art in Public Places (AIPP) program, which designated ½ of 1% of building construction funds to go to art.
This collection consists of 34 black and white photographs of musical artists.
This collection consists of the master plan of the College Hill Association (CHA) in Pullman, WA.
Letters to Clive Bell, Sidney Waterlow, and Clarence Winchester
These accessions consist of professional papers of historian David H. Stratton.
This set of Lewis and Clark expedition references was compiled by Roy M. Chatters.
Contains photographs, writings, and clippings of F.L. Audrain's activities with the Washington State University agricultural extension service, especially with the Kiona-Benton City Canning Club, 1915-1916.
The collection contains school registers, or student registers, from the first (1892) enrollees at what would become Washington State University up through 1919.
This collection consists of papers related to Arthur Johnson's work as a soil scientist and farm machinery engineer and inventor.
Planning documents, budgets, and roll books from Washington State University’s Physical Education program. Of note are documents relating to civil defense uses of the Smith Gym in the 1960s, including publications and documents from Whitman County and from the Department of Defense.
Collection contains business records of the Washington Women United organization and information about the Washington state legislature.
Ten-page holograph letter, signed, from Kingsley Martin to Laurence Cadbury about Martin's book "The British Public and the General Strike" (Hogarth Press, 1927). The letter is a detailed response to a letter of criticism that Cadbury sent to Martin.
This item is titled "Should I Go to College?" It is an essay on the merit of college education by L.P. Sieg, a former president at the University of Washington.
Two reports on the historic context and significance of Johnson hall, on the Washington State University Pullman campus.
Electronic media from the Washington State University College of Veterinary Medicine Biomedical Communications Unit. Includes videos, images, and documents created, collected, or published by the BCU, most from the early 1990s to late 2010s.
Papers on the preceptor system, compiled by Carl Morrow for the Council of the Phi Sigma Kappa.
Material concerning the Tower family and the Tower Genealogical Society of Boston, Mass.
Administrative and attendance records of the JESSI program, a high school science summer program, 1959-1964.
The ten bound volumes contain minutes of the committee meetings, correspondence reports, statistical records, memoranda, and other communications received and transmitted by the Washington State University Senate Library Committee.
This collection consists of a financial ledger of a Wilson Creek, Washington, physician.
Proposal (typescript, copy) for agricultural land in Washington State, prepared by two associate agricultural economists at the Division of Farm Management and Agricultural Economics, Washington Agricultural Experiment Station.
A history of the 319th College Training Detachment as written by Duett T. Teal.
Approximately 725 black and white photographs from 1935 to 1950 depicting the construction of the Grand Coulee Dam and the Columbia Basin Project.
This collection contains the papers of Dr. Lavon M. Koger, Professor of Veterinary Medicine at Washington State University, between 1936 and 1982.
Consists of a bound, hardcover book of items collected at the dedication of Carpenter Hall, including actual photographs, photocopies of correspondence from invitees, etc. Also contains biographical information on H. V. Carpenter, and a thank you card from Professor Carpenter's granddaughter on receipt of items sent to her in 1992 that were given out at the opening.
The collection consists of various paper currency, bonds, and a town order issued by the Confederate States of America, the Assembly of Pennsylvania in 1769, and the town of Guilford (state not listed).
A photocopy typescript of paper by Gerald Schwartz for a Washington State University History 491 course, 1966.
The collection consists of about 100 2x2-inch slides of original prints of logging during the early years of the twentieth century around Hoquiam, Washington and also a microfilm of same.
Letter to Elizabeth Salter, with his critique of her book on Edith Sitwell.
Records related to WSU International projects in Jordan, Syria, Morocco, Mail, and other countries.
Meeting minutes, religious census, church service leaflets, church directories, correspondence, and membership and financial records relating to the Pullman, Washington ministerial association, dating 1906-1960.
This thesis was completed for the Masters of Arts in Psychology at the State University of Iowa, June 1924. It is titled, "The development of a personal interview to be used in personnel work with college students."
This collection consists of four reports issued by the Washington State Reclamation Service.
Signed transcript embossed with the seal of Harvard University, re: appointment of William R. Thayer. This letter is addressed from Charles William Eliot in Cambridge Massachusetts to the Secretary of International Historical Congress, February 11, 1903.
This collection consists of ephemeral materials collected by WSU Professor Homer Jackson Dana.
This form letter is made out to Thomas L. Hunt in Colfax, Washington, August 27, 1881. Manuscript signed by J.W. Armstrong, Register.
Black and white photographs of the State College of Washington campus and activities there, taken or collected by student H. S. Baarslag Jr., between 1927 and 1932.
This collection consists of photographs, newspapers clippings, correspondence, and other documents related to the career of Washington State University (WSU) professor and Tree Fruit Research and Extension Center director Archie Van Doren.
A typescript copy, certified as an exact duplicate by George L. Converse III, July 24, 1936. Notarized. Reminiscences of military experiences.
Records of the Pullman Chapter of League of Women Voters consist primarily of subject files concerning various public issues.
Collection includes Annual Research Reports for the Palouse Conservation Field Station from 1931 to 1971. .
This collection is comprised of 22 typescripts of plays, one with original and revised editions, written by Hermine Duthie Decker.
Spokane, Washington architect Kenneth Brooks speaks about his life, World War II experiences, coming to Spokane, his WWP projects, and his architectural work.
Manuscript, dated 1833 April 15, of receipts related to horse care. Includes a transcription by M. Blyth, dated September 1889.
This collection comprises Murrow-related recordings of the 1973 dedication of the Murrow Communications Center, various Murrow symposia from the 1970s until 2002, and the 1994 Murrow Postage Stamp dedication ceremony.
Customer account book of a general merchant in Colville, Washington.
Holograph letter, signed, addressed "Dear Madam" (possibly Margaret L. Stevens), about the administration of the estate of "the governor" (probably Isaac I. Stevens).
Articles and reports concerning Indians: Report of P. Edward Connor, Colonel, Third California Infantry, Engagement of the Bear River, Utah Territory, January 29, 1863, 8 pages; How the Indian averted famine by T.M. Bridges, 4 p.; Burial customs of the Indians of the Northwest by Thomas Miller, 13 p.; Indian dances, 4 p.; some common superstitions of the Indian, 5 p.
Typescript transcripts of Clatsop Plains Presbyterian Church trustee minutes, a historical sketch, address and letter.
This collection contains the papers of Dr. James R. King (1927-1991), a Professor in the Department of Zoology at Washington State University from 1960 to 1991.
This collection contains documents generated by Washington State College’s (later Washington State University’s) Mechanical Engineering Department from the 1910s to 1940. The majority of this collection is about the projects planned and/or undertaken by the Mechanical Engineering Department during these years. Professors, and eventually department chairs, A.C. Abell and Howard Langdon gathered or authored much of the research found in this collection. This collection also includes departmental faculty correspondence as well as records of various student activities and Depression-era federal funding requirements and opportunities for Mechanical Engineering students.
The Frank Fraser Potter Memorial Lecture, an annual event at Washington State University, was established shortly after Frank Potter's death through an anonymous donation from one of his former students. In 1986, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the memorial lectureship, five of the Rhodes scholars who had been assisted and prepared by the Potters returned to Washington State University to participate in the anniversary program.
This typescript is identified as Kingdom of God radio sermons, Number 1, 1962.
Letters received from Edith, Osbert, and Sacheverell Sitwell regarding their own publications as well as comments on the literary and social life around them. Included are holograph manuscripts of poems and other works.
A handwritten letter, with envelope, from Enoch A. Bryan, president of the State College of Washington, to Ben Torpen, Portland, Oregon. Bryan discusses life and events at the college, including elections, athletics, and agriculture.
These reminiscences deal with prospecting in Idaho, a Chinese miner, and steamboats on Pend Orielle Lake, Inc. the Henry Villard.
Correspondence between author E. W. Giesecke and Ye Galleon Press editor Glen Adams. Primarily letters from Adams to Giesecke. Most are concerned with publishing business matters, including detailed accounts of happenings at the press, and works by Giesecke, including his introductions to some of Ye Galleon's titles.
Certificate of naturalization, 1858; discharge from the United States Army, 1865, under name John Bloom.
Records of the Crimson Circle, affiliated with Omicron Delta Kappa, at Washington State University. Includes minutes, membership records, a historical sketch, correspondence, and newspaper clippings.
This collection of Roy Roland Gill's papers focuses on his activities as an officer of the Columbia Basin Irrigation League.
Four items, including notes of a conversation written between two deaf people in Spokane, Washington, receipts, and a grocery list.
A report of the geology of the Heidegger Hill area, located in Stevens County, Washington state, just south of Kettle Falls.
This collection consists of one volume (number III) of a German-language war diary kept by A.G. Martin in 1940-1941.
Washington State University agricultural project proposals hoping for research funding from state commodity commissions, as well as research progress reports for the funded projects.
This collection records the history of the town of Endicott, Washington through correspondence, clippings, prose, a scrapbook, and other materials written, collected, or compiled by Anna Biedel Weitz.
Signed holograph about a book of Daniel Rowland and about his descendants.
January 1940 progress report by the Land Use Planning Committee of Spokane County of the Unified County Program.
This typescript, dated January 1937, is titled "A personal narrative by W.G. Leonard based on his experience and that of his father, the late Frederick Charles Leonard, 1853-1932, in the timber business."
This collection consists of the “clearance card” of Brother G. M. Annis certifying that he is a fully paid member of the Northern Light Lodge Number 70 of the Independent Order of Good Templars, Spokane, Washington.
Study done for the Retail Merchant's Association of Pullman, Washington, in June, 1931.
Signed manuscript about Dr. Daniel P. Hewit's practice of medicine, notarized by Auditor of Adams County.
Signed holograph about the autographs of Whittier and Longfellow. This letter was addressed from J.G. Holland in Springfield to "My Dear Elwell," March 2, 1865.
High school diploma, Palouse (Wash.) High School; graduation photograph.
Western Farmers Association records, including correspondence, publications, ledgers (minutes), photographs, reports.
This collection consists of manuscripts and research materials of writer Ted Van Arsdol.
Talks presented to the Fortnightly Club of Washington State University.
This collection contains 517 posters, most issued by governments to influence behavior and public morale. Most items are from the period beginning with the start of World War I and concluding with the end of World War II.
Correspondence between John Masefield and publisher J.M. Dent and Dent's associates.
Collection of materials related to Alfred S. Coumbe of Spokane during his World War I service in the U.S. Navy. Includes diaries, a photograph album, loose photographs, artifacts (uniforms and other textile items), and a few miscellaneous items.
Signed manuscript from Oregon City, to Isaac Leabo. Assigned by Leabo to James Fruit, February 21, 1850.
This collection contains papers of Dr. Donald Greenaway, a Professor in the Department of Hotel and Restaurant Administration at Washington State University.
Records of the WSU (Washington State University) Press from 1948 to 1992. The collection contains administrative records, correspondence, and publishing proposals and evaluations.
Minutes, correspondence, financial records, membership lists, clippings and other papers from 1972-1981 of the Washington State Grape Society, an organization associated with the grape industry in Washington State.
Correspondence, minutes, financial records, membership rosters, newsletters, and programs from musical performances, all related to this organization for the encouragement of study and performance of the music composed by Anton Webern. Correspondents include Peter Armstrong, Paul Hedwall, Wallace McKenzie, Hans Moldenhauer and Robert Riseling.
Muster roll, arms lists, accounts, and other records of militia company, Captain John H. Elson, commanding, attached to the first battalion and first regiment of the Virginia Brigade in the service of the United States.
This collection consists of Stanley Smith and Fred G. Rounds architectural drawings for the Arthur E. Drucker house on B Street in Pullman, Washington.
Legislative and service bulletins and pamphlets from the Washington Education Association.
Examples of published poems; family papers, correspondence, certificates, photographs, etc.
Sixteen photographs primarily of military cadet training on the campus of Washington State University in the first decade of the nineteenth century, plus four military photos and documents from the 1930s and 1940s.
Includes correspondence, minutes, reports, budgets, recruiting and department graduate student information.
Collection includes correspondence, newsletters, and handbooks related to the formation and ongoing activities of Psi Chi, an international honor society for students of psychology.
Correspondence, clippings, articles, and annual Christmas newsletter (1955-1971) about John and Lilla Leach and their home and gardens in Portland, Oregon.
This signed Wendell Philips hologram is undated.
Project documents from the WSU Capital Planning Department from 1965-2009.
Correspondence and Reports from the Horticulture and Landscape Architecture Department 1959-1983.
William L. Stimson compiled this collection of donated photographs for his published book Going to Washington State: A Century of Student Life. This collection consists of approximately 50 photographs of Pullman and Washington State University life, spanning the period from the 1890s to the 1980s. In addition to photographs, individuals also donated dance booklets and scrapbooks that illustrate early campus life in Pullman. Also included in this collection are a few photographs documenting California Native Americans, as well as photographs of Jayne Klyne McDonald, the second wife of nineteenth century Hudson Bay Company Chief Trader Archibald McDonald.
Memoirs of Bryson L. Jaynes, former English professor at the State College of Washington, of his early life in Colorado and later in Washington State, 1905-1984.
A collection of graduate research proposals, property inventory, and memoranda and correspondence related to the Controller's Office of WSU from 1921-1964.
The official organization of the Washington State University Library Faculty in its current incarnation dates to a September 15, 1970 meeting. The groups purpose, as defined at that first meeting, was "to promote the group's professional involvement in the field of library and information science; to provide for the group's active participation in the library and academic affairs of Washington State University; and to fulfill those duties as listed [in] the Faculty Manual as they pertain to the Library." The collection consists primarily of minutes from the meetings of Library Faculty meetings, and from the Library Faculty Advisory Council.
A compilation of the pioneer settlers of Grand Mound Prairie, Thurston County, Washington.
Orders and certificates concerning military government in Arkansas, recollections of reconstruction experiences, autobiography to 1869, documents certifying Inman as an attorney, and various records of the IOOF lodge at Colfax, Wash.
Agricultural research photos from the Irrigated Agriculture Research and Extension Center, or IAREC, formerly the Irrigation Experiment Station, in Prosser, Washington.
Press photographs of the Cairo Conference and Tehran Conference in November of 1943. Includes images of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Joseph Stalin, Winston Churchill, and Chiang Kai-shek.
Contains list of old settlers, accounts, and minutes of meetings, Rosalia, Wash., 1901-1917.
Undated typescript with manuscript corrections and additions.
Portraits and snapshots of the Walker family and friends, including Dr. R. D. McRae; also scenes of Hunters, Washington, 1895 - 1925.
A certified manuscript copy of Asel Edward Severance's diploma from the University of Oregon, 1888 April 2, signed and notarized by the auditor of Adams County, Washington Territory, on September 6, 1888.
Includes correspondence, reports, research & publications, brochures, meeting notes, personnel files. Also includes scrapbook pages related to WSU/WSC program in Spokane, the Spokane Art Center and continuing education at various Washington cities and Portland, Oregon.
Signed holograph transmitting the proceedings of the City Council of Boston on the death of Abraham Lincoln. This letter was addressed from Gardener Tufts in Washington, D.C., to Gideon Welles, Secretary of the Navy, on May 31, 1865.
On April 12, 1971 WSU's Board of Regents approved the creation of a University Senate, which included undergraduate and graduate student representation, as well as faculty. On June 3, 1983, undergraduates were officially removed from the group, and the University Senate became the Faculty Senate. The collection solely of the minutes from the meetings of the Washington State University Faculty Senate and its predecessor, the University Senate.
This letter is addressed from G.R. Mineck, T.M., in Spokane Falls to all agents and trainmen in the Spokane and Palouse Railway Company. The letter gives instructions re: F2 and F4 reports.
Land deed, Northern Pacific Railroad to Charles Grutt, Davenport, WA, 1903 December 21.
This collection consists chiefly of corporate records relating to Reginald Ashley Caton and the Fortune Press (London, England) between 1896 and 1974.
Five autographed letters, signed, to Sir Richard and Lady Caroline Jebb from Leslie Stephen, Anne Ritchie, Emily Ritchie, F.W.H. Myers, and George Otto Trevelyan.
Memoranda, correspondence, brochures, and financial reports related to the development of energy services on the WSU Pullman campus from 1992-1998.
Undated accounts of life and westward migration of Ada Jane Chase, especially in mining areas of Nevada.
Budget and Data files from the Engineering Extension from 1986.
67 black-and-white photographs of range management in the western United States from 1915-1922.
Typescript transcript requesting political patronage in the form of employment.
The collection consists of material assembled for an exhibit, Phil Jacobson and Design at TRA, which was presented at the University of Washington and Washington State University during 1992 and 1993.
This letter, dated January 15, 1851, is addressed from Henry Clay in Washington, DC, to John M. Clay.
Biennial report of the Oregon Milk Control Board for 1941-1942, plus accompanying narrative and statistical information.
The Merion Bluegrass Association Records consists of correspondence, by-laws, financial statements, budgets, minutes, annual meeting materials, membership rosters, photographs, and advertising material from the Merion Bluegrass Association up until its dissolution in 1989.
A two-page letter from Al Hartman to Joe McIntosh regarding Washington State University baseball.
Elwyn Kechley Scrapbook, 1927-1934. While a student at Washington State College, Kechley played in a band that performed on cruise ships in 1931 and 1932, and most of the material in the scrapbook relates to these experiences. Materials include photographs, newspapers (whole issues and clippings), and memorabilia.
Essay analyzing the ethnoarchaeology of the Beef Barn at Washington State University prior to the building's renovation and reopening as the Lewis Alumni Centre.
Correspondence, articles, notes, with E.O. Holland, R.B. Coglon, re: Meeker's publications, the Oregon Trail, Pioneers of America, and Seattle Food Conservation Company.
Three letters from author Alan Gabriel Barnsley (pseudonym Gabriel Fielding) to literary critic Derek Stanford.
This collection consists of account books and ledgers of two generations of the Carty family farm near Ridgefield, Washington.
Letters, clippings, announcements, photographs and other personal and family material.
This collection is approximately 300 photographs of Regents Hill dormitories events including Homecoming, holidays, and mixers.
Audio/video recordings related to African-Americans and Washington State University or the northwest. They include academic presentations, musical performances.
This collection consists of small press literature and comic books donated by underground writer Jeff Zenick. The collection includes approximately 200 underground comix and homemade zines, spanning four decades, in the small press/underground genre. Some of the subject matter is controversial, and contains violent and/or sexual themes.
Typescript (carbon) concerning California public utilities and irrigation districts in the 1930s.
This album contains photographs of the Spokane area from the 1880s.
Correspondence of the WSU Foundation from 1986-1988. Includes correspondence with organizations, alumni, and employee correspondence files.
Administrative and financial files related to the WSU President's Office from 1993-1998, in which Sam Smith was the presiding president.
This item is titled "Personal experiences of the Nez Percé War, as told by Helen Julia Mason Walsh." Included are typescript transcripts, notes, and correspondence, circa 1916.
Affidavits about W.H. Gray's losses by Sioux Indians in 1837.
The collection consists of individual aerial photographs (maps) and indexes. The majority of the collection consists of images of Whitman County and the Pullman region, but additional sets of photographic indexes to two other Washington counties are included, as are a sequence documenting the lower Columbia River.
Photographs, slides, and negatives detailing inner-workings, events, and activities held by WSU's College of Veterinary Science as it related to the Biomedical Communications Unit from around 1948-2021.
Okanogan County Superior Court case concerning a lien on a cold storage plant.
This collection contains records of the J. E. Love Company, from 1932 to 1980.
Diary and account entries of A.H. Dawson, dairyman, near Entiat, Washington, 1902-1903.
Shipping files, contracts, and project proposals relating to the removal of hazardous waste and other WSU Environmental Health and Safety projects from 1987-1994.
Correspondence, financial and legal papers of the owner and commander of the steamer Lawrence, John Bradley.
Notes and correspondence, relating to research in plant pathology; also, lecture materials for graduate and undergraduate courses.
Includes reports, memoranda, minutes and correspondence of the Teaching Evaluation Committee.
Washington State University's Beta Omega chapter of the national Delta Gamma sorority was established in 1946. The collection consists of 18 contractor's drawings of the Delta Gamma sorority house at NE 715 Linden in Pullman, WA
Paul Louis Beckett was Professor of Political Science at Washington State University from 1947 to 1977. The papers of Paul Beckett are made up of correspondence with fellow scholars, consisting mostly of letters of recommendation for former students and colleagues, administrative reports on the Department of Political science, and draft writings on research and teaching of municipal government.
Papers belonging to James Smith (1834-1908?) including United States Army discharge, Northern Pacific Railroad Company land deed, Spokane County, Wash., and United States pension certificate.
The collection consists of an oral history interview with Catherine May Bedell, circa 1998, former Congressional Representative for the State of Washington.
Correspondence, papers on types of soils and their uses, newspaper clippings, material dealing with aspects of soil erosion in the Palouse area, field diaries of Kaiser, 1936-1976, and records of his activities in soil development projects in Colombia, Nicaragua, Honduras and Iran. Includes some of his personal records. Also, maps detailing the soils, crops, and erosion of soil in eastern Washington.
Manuscripts and dummies of illustrated pamphlets on soil conservation practices in the Palouse, prepared for the Cheney Weeder Company, 1952-1954.
Correspondence about the sale and breeding of dogs, contained in letterpress copy book, 1898-1908.
Diaries, 1885-1918, of farm life in Entiat Valley; clippings and other papers; also portrait and ledger of her father, James Crayton Bonar, 1829-1892.
Includes material received by Dean Eugene Clark relative to meetings, programs, and staffing procedures within the college during his twenty year tenure as Dean.
Records consisting of meeting minutes, bills, receipts, correspondence, and notes concerning the Union Center Goodwill Club, a rural women's club in Whitman County, Washington. Records date 1936-1954.
Promotional event material, newspaper clippings, photos, and meeting material related to the Women's Resource Center and it's various student committees and associations, ranging from about 1957-2003.
This collection consists of a single item: a bound ledger recording land sales in Greene's Addition (Spokane, WA) of the Capitol Land Company.
Student paper for a course at Washington State College, Public Welfare Administration (Social Welfare 230), taught by A. A. Smick.
This letter is addressed from John Ruskin in Denmark Hill, London, to A.J. Woodhouse in London, April 17, 1869.
This typescript letter is signed by E.W. Ross in the Washington State Office of Commissioner of Public Lands in Olympia, WA. It is addressed to W.F. Magill, Assistant Attorney General in Olympia, WA, and discusses Native American land claims in May 1909.
Includes correspondence, memos, reports, fliers, projects, statistics, workshop information, minutes and newsletters.
This collection contains the papers of Dr. Edward Bennett, a Professor of History at Washington State University, dated between 1917 and 1993.
This collection consists of correspondence and other materials related to James Sandoe's work as editor on an anthology of Dorothy L. Sayers stories, Lord Peter (1972), featuring her character Lord Peter Wimsey.
Sue Durrant joined the faculty at Washington State University in 1962. She served as the head coach for women's volleyball from 1962 to 1975, as the instructor for the Fish Fans synchronized swim group from 1962 to 1968, and as head coach for women's basketball from 1971 to 1982. The collection includes materials related to Durrant's career and activities at WSU, including the Department of Physical Education for Women, the Physical Education Sports and Leisure Studies (PESLS) Department, women's basketball, volleyball, and the Fish Fans synchronized swim group
Correspondence, principally between Helen M. Clark, John Wilson Snook, and Fannie Steele; articles, clippings, photographs, and other papers concerning newspaper and magazine articles on aspects of Montana's past. Dated 1951-1969.
Sometimes called the "grandfather of Chicano poetry," Ricardo Sánchez was a professor of creative writing and Chicano studies at Washington State University from 1991 until his death in 1995. The collection includes manuscripts (reproductions) and published works. Several of the poetry collections were written and published during Sánchez's tenure at WSU.
This collection consists of professional papers of mycologist and Washington State University professor Jack D. Rogers.
Contains information files about individuals who have worked for Washington State University, sports and news releases for each year that extensively cover athletic-oriented activities, workshops, conferences, organizational groups, concert series, committees, speeches, theatrical productions, referendums, initiatives, as well as correspondence files and back-to-school stories.
The collection consists of reports, plans, designs, and schematics relating to a large number of WSU Buildings; though a few earlier materials are included, the majority of the materials dates from the late 1980s to early 1990s.
Typescript annual reports to the State Horticultural Commission.
Holograph hardcover notebook, made of handmade Italian paper, in Roger Fry's hand which contains working draft translations of 25 poems by Stéphane Mallarmé; includes corrections.
Business accounts, records, promissory notes, receipts and bills in four single-entry account ledgers.
Records of the Office of the President of the State College of Washington (later Washington State University), related to the presidency of Wilson M. Compton.
Two-page holograph letter, signed, from Nina Hamnett to Mr. Davis (possibly an autograph collector).
These materials were received in multiple installments, accessioned separately as described below.
This collection contains papers and research materials of Dr. Maurice Theodore James (1905-1982), a Professor in the Department of Entomology at Washington State University.
Documents form the WSU Library from 1972-1978 regarding the Washington Libraries Network Council.
This undated typescript by Joseph Henry Brown is titled "Trip West in 1847."
This collection contains a variety of materials on nursing in Washington State and at WSU.
This collection contains a manuscript draft of a study of home laundry facilities, "The Efficiency of the Home Laundry Plant," by Evelyn Roberts, dated 1930.
Manuscript poems by members of Poetry Scribes of Spokane (a society), 1964.
This collection consists of records of the YWCA of Washington State University, including budgets, newsletters, meeting minutes, correspondence, and other materials.
Information relevant to libel suit brought against parties who charged communist affiliations by Savage, a state legislator.
Manuscript documenting discharge of volunteers assisting regular troops in Island County, Washington Territory, in settling a conflict with Snohomish Indians.
Field book from Montana, concerned with surveys of mines, 1921.
This collection consists of three interviews on one cassette tape.
Media, musical scores, compositions, and programs, correspondence, publicity and publication materials, teaching materials, exhibit materials, photographs, music festival materials and other professional papers of Washington State University music professor Charles Argersinger.
This collection consists primarily of literary manuscripts, galley proofs, printed materials, and correspondence related to Evelyn Hawes' writing projects, including her books Proud Vision (1964), The Happy Land (1965), A Madras-Type Jacket (1967), and Six Nights a Week (1971).
Manzrek and McClune Kimbrough Concert Hall Recording from 2001.
Daybook, pages 27-168 and 170-572, for a general store in Fort Colville, Washington.
Primarily correspondence and other papers related to David Stidolph's personal and professional relationship with his friend, author John McCallum, along with a small amount of material related to Stidolph's professional activities in creative marketing and communications.
Slides depicting campus activities related to Washington State University during the early 2000s. The slides were primarily taken as illustrations for Washington State Magazine, the campus alumni newsletter.
This collection contains records of Breitenbush Books (also referred to as Breitenbush Publications).
Notebook created by Jane (Jennie) Atherton for a Home Economics class (sewing), probably at Washington State University, with samples.
Accident reports, correspondence, memoranda, and administrative reports related to the Environmental Health and Safety Office at WSU from 1980-2000.
Franklin Jay Haynes became "Official Photographer, Northern Pacific Railroad" in 1881, and for 20 years, with a Pullman car as his studio and headquarters, he photographed the country and people along the Northern Pacific routes. The collection consists of 25 "Boudoir Views" of scenery along the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad.
Initiated in 1975, STEEP (Solutions To Environmental and Economic Problems) is an interdisciplinary research/education program focusing on developing profitable cropping systems technologies for controlling cropland soil erosion and protecting environmental quality. The publications consist primarily of research reports from projects funded by STEEP, but also includes research proposals and work plans.
Manuscript transcripts of correspondence concerning Civil War experiences, 1862-1908.
This collection contains presentations, articles, reports, notes, and other professional papers of anthropologist and environmental consultant Leslie Wildesen.
George Bedirian (1939-) began photographing the Palouse region in 1969, and in 1987 a number of his photographs were compiled and published as Palouse Country: An Essay in Photographs. This collection consists of 11 color photographs of Palouse region photographs, primarily landscapes and aged farm buildings.
This collection consists of personal and professional papers of Oliver P. Brewer, a minister of the Oakville (Washington) Methodist Episcopal Church in the 1880s.
Signed holograph (September 1, 1918) about being a German in America during World War I and the state of music in the United States and Europe.
Contracts, financial reports, and other architectural documents related to construction and remodel on WSU-owned property from 2008-2010.
Correspondence, photograph, printed material and other papers concerning Belknap family genealogy, the lost Blue Bucket Mine; and the typescript of the 1847 overland diary of Lester Hulin.
Includes correspondence, reports, and photographs concerning civic organizations, civil defense, land-use planning, the Pullman (Wash.) planning commission, the Kiwanis Club, and a number of residential architectural projects.
Correspondence retained by Helmut Charles Diehl for the autographs: William E. Borah, Walter Damrosch, Ernestine Schumann-Heink, N. Maximov, and Francis A. Tondorf. Also a letter of transmittal from Diehl.
The Alternatives for Washington (AFW) was launched by Governor Daniel J. Evans in January 1974 with the mission first to ask Washington citizens what they wanted the state to be like in 1985 and then to involve them in actualizing that vision by identifying the costs and necessary trade-offs. The films in this collection are assumed to be footage shot by WSU Radio-Television Services that was then used to create three AFW-associated films identified in WorldCat as WSU-produced and held only by the Washington State Library: Alternatives for Washington [1974?], Issaquah, a Beginning: Alternatives for Washington [1974?], and The First Year: Alternatives for Washington [1975?].
Consist chiefly of minutes, reports, and research material.
Organized crew at Washington State University began as a men's club sport in the 1969-1970 school year; female Cougars began rowing in 1974. The collection consists of papers dealing with men's and women's crew at Washington State University. They tend not to be official university papers, but rather documents collected by people affiliated with the programs, though some official budgets and other materials are included.
Letter by poet George Crabbe to publisher John Murray concerning a manuscript, 1829 February 24.
This collection consists of a single item, Underground Water of the Upper Spokane River Valley, a paper by Washington State College student Reuben Newcomb.
This collection consists of correspondence between Carl Johnson and Lenore Emerson.
This letter from American statesman Rufus Choate is dated approximately April 16, 1836.
This collection contains the sheet music collection of Ruth Warnecke.
This collection consists of two 54 x 52 cm. ledgers containing records of examination, appraisement, and disposition of lands conveyed to the State of Washington by the United States for use and support of agricultural colleges (volume 1) and for the establishment and maintenance of a scientific school (volume 2) between 1895 and 1902. 
Ledger of the Anderson Brothers and Company, Spokane, Washington, dealing with financial transactions and area smelting firms.
Consists of correspondence, memoranda, reports, test and research data, chiefly that assembled as working papers by Walter Clore and his associates.
Correspondence of the Indian Agent about the Indian-white relations, affidavits and other papers about the Yakima Agency, 1873-1894.
This collection consists of papers and photographs related to the experiences of George and Doris McIntyre as workers at the Minidoka War Relocation Center in Idaho during World War II.
This collection consists of documents used in the planning of W. Glenn Terrell's inauguration in March 1968, letters congratulating Terrell on his new position, and approximately 900 print photographs and 1050 negatives of the inauguration and associated events.
This collection consists of a single item: a document from the French and Indian War, dated February 9, 1757, signed by Charles, Duke of Marlborough.
This collection consists of papers of Richard Scheuerman related to the Greater Columbia Plateau region.
The personal papers of Enoch A. Bryan consist of drafts of speeches, essays, and books, as well as personal, teaching, and business documents.
Signed holograph about unscrupulousness in military recruiting. Verso has Abraham Lincoln's endorsement and a question: "What is this about?" This letter is addressed from John L. Wilderman in Fort Columbus, Governors Island, New York Harbor to President Abraham Lincoln, October 3, 1864.
This collection contains papers of Dr. Laszlo Valko (1907-1982), a Professor in the Department of Agricultural Economics at Washington State University.
Illustrated typescript (reproduction) about Randall Johnson's experiences on a tour of eastern Europe and the Middle East in 1960.
Financial and membership records, newsletters, minutes, correspondence, and other records of the chapter, including those of its predecessor, the Alpha Beta club.
Records consist of correspondence, reports, bidding records, and other documents related to architecture work and construction.
Most of the materials in this collection are Daubenmire's publications, many of which are numbered and total over a hundred.
These papers consist of minutes, account books, photographs, and correspondence of the Chinese Students' Club at Washington State College between 1923 and 1939.
Typescript of report concerning claims by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions for Indian depredations in 1847.
Bound scrapbook containing five items from a recital given at Washington State University by vocalist Ernestine Schumann-Heink and her accompanist, Frank La Forge.
Finance records, minutes, insurance and bond papers, hand books and photographs that deal with his work at Washington State University. Also, personal bills, real estate transactions, stocks, insurance papers, and personal papers of some family members which includes much memorabilia.
Paper for undergraduate research, Anthropology 499, at the University of Washington in the Correspondence Division.
The collection consists of records pertaining to construction, remodeling, maintenance, and improvement of WSU buildings. Buildings included here include Science Hall, Todd Hall Addition, WSU Children's Center, Yakama Village, Food and Human Nutrition Facility, Tri-Cities University Center, and Beasley Coliseum.
This typescript by the Noyon (France) Conseil municipal is titled "Homage to the Memory of President Franklin Roosevelt: Extrait du Registre des de ́Liberations du Conseil Municipal de la Ville de Noyon." Also included is correspondence on this resolution.
The collections consists of 150 photographs and postcards from the construction of Long Lake Dam, dating from approximately 1910-1914. Long Lake Dam is located approximately 25 miles northeast of Spokane, Washington on the Spokane River. Joseph Beckman worked on its construction.
Photocopy of the 1977 Master's thesis of Joseph Harry Bushnell. Written for his Master of Science in Education from Washington State University, it covers the history of industrial education at the university.
This collection consists of photographic slides, collection inventory information, reports, and supporting documentation for the Lucullus McWhorter artifact collection held by the Museum of Anthropology, Washington State University.
The Historic Photograph Subject File contains photographs taken throughout the Pacific Northwest and Alaska that cover a wide variety of subjects.
This collection consists of publications by Charles H. Drake, information regarding a summer course taught by Drake, as well as papers related to the International Northwest Conference on Diseases in Nature Communicable to Man (INCDNCM).
Bound volumes of both annual and monthly reports for all counties. Also contains research reports.
A collection of black and white photographs from the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) at WSU. The bulk of pictures are from Seabeck located near Hood Canal where an annual meeting was held.
Shipping manifests and administrative files related to the removal of hazardous material and waste on the WSU Pullman campus from 1995-2008.
This collection consists of biographical sketches of Whitman County, Washington and Latah County, Idaho pioneers recorded by James Emerson Lindsey in 1931 and 1934.
Typescript of an address delivered at the 1963 annual meeting of the Washington State University Friends of the Library; complete with corrections and changes. The address is titled "Contemporary architecture: The swan song of theory."
Journal of the voyage around the Cape of Good Hope, to Australia, New Zealand, the Sandwich Islands, and the coast of America. Includes explorations along the coast in search of a Northwest passage, the Straits of Juan de Fuca, Nootka Sound, the Columbia River, San Francisco and Monterey, winter in the Sandwich Islands, and return to the Northwest coast and Nootka Sound, with the George Vancouver Expedition.
Records of a Moscow, Idaho, merchant, 1903.
An undated letter of recommendation for Dr. Knight written by poet George Crabbe.
Signed holograph from John Gunther; signed typescript from Josef Hofmann; signed typescript from Harold Edward Stassen.
Correspondence, charters, constitutions, financial records, membership lists and applications, and other papers of a service fraternity at Washington State University.
Papers and photographs from the work of agronomist Gordon Van Epps in the WSU / USAID project in Lesotho.
Carl William Sharsmith's papers consist of his correspondence, mostly relative to work at the Washington State University herbarium, and his lists of the botanical specimens he collected while at Washington State University.
A collection of biographical material, photos, and articles related to Edward R. Murrow, WSU Alumni and namesake for the Murrow College of Communications, from about 1930-1994.
Affidavits and clippings concerning the straying of horses near Plaza, Spokane Co., Washington, 1899-1900.
This collection consists of Donald Bushaw's papers from his service on the board of directors of the Greystone Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to the restoration and use of the historic Greystone Church building in Pullman, WA.
The William Whitmore Papers comprise documents, bills, receipts, and other papers re: Holland family, 1812-1836.
Typed manuscript of poetry by Purdy J. Conrad.
This collection consists of research materials for the book “Seven for Oregon” by Cornelia Shields.
The Grant Willoughby Papers comprise letters, bills, receipts, documents, advertising poster, photographs and other papers from Whitman County, Washington, during the frontier era, 1896-1913.
Two reports (typescripts) on agricultural subjects by H. R. Vercler, extension agent for Grant County, WA: "Thistles as hay" and "Jack-rabbit control."
Correspondence, agency reports, vouchers, bills, other financial statements and abstracts, and mercantile records re: agency affairs. Also personal correspondence with his wife, Lucy McFadden Simms, his family in Maryland, business acquaintances and friends.
Business and private correspondence written by noted writers of the twentieth century to Sir Stanley Unwin.
Correspondence, clippings, brochures, addresses and other papers on relief politics and the 1934 West Coast Waterfront Strike.
This item comprises a yearbook and guest day program for a women's society in Longview, Washington, 1937-1938.
Records of the Concordia Lutheran Church in Pullman, Washington. Includes bylaws, membership rosters, correspondence, minutes, constitution, budgets, reports, and agendas.
This collection consists of papers related to the reelection campaigns of Congressman Thomas Foley from 1980 through 1986, gathered by Frank Mullen who served as the Whitman County coordinator of Foley's reelection campaign in these years.
Financial ledger of a Wilson Creek, Washington, livery stable containing records of feed sales, boarding fees, and horse rentals.
Letters, in Japanese, from relatives in Japan, principally describing everyday happenings. Also, some miscellaneous receipts and papers from Japanese organizations and businesses in the Northwest.
Administrative reports, budget and project proposals, personnel files, and departmental histories related to the Department of Microbiology at WSU from 1960-2000.
Signed holograph with postscript and initials of Alice Hegan Rice. This letter was addressed from Cole Young Rice in Louisville, Kentucky, to E.O. Holland in Pullman, Washington, July 14, 1918.
Minutes of the Executive Committee, 1886-1892, articles of incorporation and discorporation, by-laws, contracts and other papers of the Board of Trustees.
Meeting minutes of the Association of Veterinary Faculties of North America, Sofus B. Nelson, Secretary. Includes a cover letter from Sofus B. Nelson, dated 1932 April 06.
This collection contains the papers of Harry Charles Weller (1901-1988), a Professor of Architecture at Washington State University from 1949 to 1966.
This collection consists of professional papers of Dr. Richard L. Ott.
This collection of Robert Nilan's papers includes extensive documentation of his published research on barley genetics, and of his career as a faculty member and administrator at Washington State University.
Women's health education ephemera, including teaching manuals, educational pamphlets for girls, and a poster collected in a reference file to accompany the instructional film "The Story of Menstruation."
This undated typescript is titled "Narratives of the Nez Percé War."
This collection of assorted images depicting the history of the State College of Washington (later Washington State University) covers a wide range of subjects, including photographs of buildings on campus, students, faculty, University regents, and campus visitors.
Bound volumes of the annual reports of the Director and his assistants.
Photographs of college audio visual centers in Washington state, including filming, equipment, personnel, and activities.
This work is the autobiography of Miles C. Moore, 1845-1919.
A handwritten four-page letter from Leslie Stephen to his friend and fellow alpinist, Arthur Giles Puller, dated June 3, 1862.
Diary of a frontier farmer at Allegan, Michigan.
Annual reviews, project proposals from 1973-1991. Also includes architectural plans primarily related to the redesign of Glenn Terrell Friendship Mall from 1991-1992.
Photocopy typescript by Elma Barkley Ashton reminiscing on her pioneer experiences in Idaho and Oregon.
Rolled drawings documenting a number of buildings since destroyed or sold off by Washington State University.
This collection contains records of the Washington State University chapter of Epsilon Sigma Phi beginning with its founding in 1927.
Manuscripts and typescript transcripts of correspondence from brothers John and Hamilton Trowbridge about Civil War service and other activities, 1861-1881.
Administrative and financial reports related to the Veterinary Hospital, as well as building plans and documents related to the General Engineering Building and Mechanical Engineering Shop from about 1930-1997.
Minutes, agendas, reports, resolutions, proposals, land and timber appraisals, correspondence and other papers relating to the monthly meetings of the Board of Natural Resources. Principal correspondents include Governors Albert Rosellini and Dan Evans, and Commissioner of Public Lands Bert Cole.
This collection consists of souvenirs from the Washington State American Legion annual conventions, 1938-1950.
The collection contains scrapbooks, clippings, papers and photographs concerning the WRA (Womens' Recreation Association) at Washington State University.
Typescript transcriptions of letters to relatives concerning the war in North Carolina, the United States Constitution, and North Carolina; prefaced by biographical and genealogical notes, titled "The Dickson family.
A collection of glass plate negatives taken by Austin Mires, detailing his friends and family from 1904-1919.
One typescript letter signed by Virginia Woolf from 52 Tavistock Square with the annotated date "Xmas day" and a manuscript envelope postmarked December 27th, 1928. In the letter, Woolf writes that "I am more pleased than I can say that you survived my burial. Never will I attempt such a thing again. To think that you have bought my book!" The burial refers to Woolf's having used Ruck's name in Jacob's Room, with the minor change of adding an "h" to it ("Bertha Ruck") and killing the character. Though Ruck initially considered a lawsuit, the authors, after exchanging letters, were reconciled.
This typescript of an interview with Virginia Herrmann is titled "Narrative report of interview with Mrs. Virginia Herrmann, pioneer teacher born on Whidbey Island."
This typescript, dated May 1955, is titled, "History of Kitsap County and Silverdale, Washington."
Washington State Great Northern Express Company Receipt ledger from 1907. Five pages filled, approximately 150 pages are blank.
Typescript with additional notes added on August 5, 1974, emphasizing the life of Ruth Kellogg Baker's father Lucien Kellogg.
Records of the Women's Auxiliary of the Washington Wool Growers Association. Includes minutes, correspondence, constitutions and by-laws, membership lists, financial reports, conference programs, photographs, newspaper clippings and other printed material.
Correspondence, building plans, safety reports, and other administrative files related to the development of WSU Residence Halls from 1990-1994.
Manuscript journal in German of emigration from Baden to Canton, Ohio; typescript transcription of the diary; correspondence; certificates and clippings about Franz Buerer's daughter.
This collection consists of correspondence between author Ruby El Hult and Glen Lindeman, editor of the Washington State University Press.
Includes correspondence and memorabilia relating to Clint Carr's experiences in China in the early 1900s.
Files from the Instructional Media Service department. Files include general correspondence, reports, and audio-visual conference files.
This typescript is titled, "Summary of 1860 United States census of Spokane County and 1870 census of Stevens County."
This collection consists of a scrapbook assembled by Ortis C. Skaife to preserve memorabilia he collected during his military service in France between 1917 and 1919.
Office files from the ASWSU from 1979-1984. Including board of directors documents and reprints.
When the National Public Radio network began in 1971, KWSU was one of the initial members. Through the 1980s, translator stations were established throughout parts of the Washington, and in adjacent Idaho and Oregon, and a network of stations based out of WSU and soon including Tri-Cities (KFAE), University of Idaho (KUID) and others began to form. This network of stations took the name Northwest Public Radio. The audio recordings from Northwest Public Radio include not only finished radio programs, but also interviews taken for radio productions, short broadcast news items, and 'work' pieces that represent shows or presentations still in progress. A significant number of items are also recordings of WSU events.
Notes compiled by Adrian V. Hall from Professor J. W. Adams' surgical lectures for horses and dogs at the University of Pennsylvania school of veterinary medicine. Typescript with annotations.
Bound correspondence logs detailing incoming and outgoing memoranda and misc. correspondence related to the WSU Agricultural Research Center (ARC) from 1979-1985.
Correspondence, clippings, photographs, licenses, QSL cards and other papers.
This letter is addressed from Francis Meynell in London to Mr. Lambert, circa 1908. It deals with literary matters.
Letter of a farmer/blacksmith relative to life and work.
Letters about battles near Vicksburg, Mississippi; typescript copies included.
The oral history interviews of D. J. Crowley, Superintendent of the WSU Coastal Washington Research and Extension Unit, Long Beach, WA, were conducted by Azmi Y. Shawa in 1973. This collection consists of two cassette tapes.
Miscellaneous documents relating to regions in and around Yakima, Washington, and the Dalles, Oregon. Includes commercial records: receipts, invoices, vouchers, and correspondence.
This collection consists of: photographs, scrapbooks of memorial tributes, and reprints of botanical publications of Charles Vancouver Piper.
Reports and a directory of historic properties throughout Whitman County, Washington. Project Director, Mary Reed.
This collection consists of: photocopies of correspondence, notes, speeches, memoranda, newspaper articles and other publications about rising German power in Europe, U.S. responsibilities overseas, the rebuilding of Europe after World War II, the United Nations War Crimes Commission, and the persecution of minorities. Correspondents include Franklin D. Roosevelt, and other government officials, diplomats and editors.
Correspondence received by G.H. Bliesner and H.L. Garver about rural electrification.
Records and photographs from University Relations from 1990-2002.
The International Education department's administrative correspondence with foreign universities and individuals, sign up and booking forms, course equivalent catalogs, and administrative forms and enrollment data. Records cover 1983-1987.
The papers of William Band consist chiefly of diaries, manuscripts of publications, and scattered correspondence. Also included are documents concerning Band's ancestors and family.
Files include PRI programs, publications and task forces; research papers, annual reports, newsletters, etc. William Lassey's files include proposals to Kellogg Foundation, correspondence, PRI program developments, evaluation materials and relevant readings.
Typed letters and clippings re: Bayles Family, also a copy of: The Bayles book: the ancestors of the Bayles family in the United States, 1617-1900. The book was arranged by Eliza M. Bayles.
Walter Franklin Horan (1898-1966) was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1942 as representative of the Fifth Congressional District of the State of Washington. The papers in this collection consist of correspondence to and from Walt Horan, interfiled and combined with other manuscripts and printed materials used in his official work.
Glass slides related to the WSU Botany Department from the 1920s.
Video of Washington State University men’s basketball games, mostly from the 2004-2008 season.
Correspondence, reports, draft essays, and administrative records concerning experimental work with the chemistry of wheat, flours, and baked products, and of involvement in professional societies.
Correspondence, and other papers, primarily dealing with the Columbia Basin Irrigation League, concerning the Columbia Basin Project.
This collection contains papers of Dr. Fekri Hassan, a Professor in the Department of Anthropology at Washington State University, from 1983 to 1999.
Manuscript deed from Colfax, Washington; to Richard A. Truax.
Account of shipwreck at mouth of Columbia River, 1879. Contains manuscript additions. Also letter to Elmina White, February 2, 1935.
This collection comprises minutes, accounts, publications, and other records of the Washington State Veterinary Medical Association, 1909-1957.
Correspondence, minutes, directories, financial and other records of the wheat growers of Washington. Included are materials from the National Association of Wheat Growers.
This item is identified as the Joe Glass Diary, 1906.
Typescrypt of an address delivered by Luther H. Evans, National Director of Historical Records Survey, Division of Women's and Professional Projects, W.P.A., 1938 December 27, at the conference on State and Local History held in connection with the annual meeting of the Pacific Coast Branch of the American Historical Association, Palo Alto, California.
Letters received from John Galsworthy, Somerset Maugham, William Archer, Charles Trevelyan, Isabelle Smith, George M. Trevelyan, and others. Notes and notebook of Norwegian-English translating vocabulary.
Signed holograph re: Yakima War claims; included is a one-page biography of General Morton M. McCarver.
Included in the Duncan McDonald Papers are typescript copies based on articles in the New Northwest, 1878, and transcripts of letters sent by McDonald. Articles include: The Nez Perces War: the Manuel tragedy - Brice; Wal-litze and the Nez Perces War; White Bird; White Bird and Sitting Bull; White Bird's song; and White Bird's camp.
This collection consists of professional papers of historian Thomas Kennedy.
Incoming correspondence to Clive and Vanessa Bell, with most items addressed to Clive. Topics include personal, political, and literary matters.
A genealogy of the Hamilton family, whose members made the overland journey to the Western United States.
Contracts related to several construction projects across the WSU campuses from 2000-2005.
Files from ASWSU Student Legal Services from 1976-1982. The files pertain to a study done by the Student Legal Services department.
Papers of soil scientist Walter H. Gardner, a faculty member at Washington State University.
These 1933 radio broadcasts by KHQ, Spokane, Washington, are titled "Tribute to cities and towns in the Northwest."
Photographs, maps and correspondence about the floods in Goldendale, Washington from 1938 to 1961.
Minutes of regular and special executive sessions, minutes of annual meetings, financial reports, articles of incorporation, by-laws, reports and some correspondence of a Yakima farmers' cooperative dealing in petroleum products, farm equipment and supplies. Included is financial correspondence (1934-1938), of its predecessor, Farm Bureau Services, Inc.
Letters from Lydia Lopokova, Desmond MacCarthy and others, 1913-1944.
This ledger is titled "Issues of Indian goods to Indians at Fort Colville, Wash. Territory," 1863-1875. It also contains accounts and notes.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, financial statements, price and purchase information, production data, annual meetings, articles of incorporation and by-laws, and litigation materials of a grape producers' cooperative and its predecessors, the Yakima Valley Grape Growers Association and the Valley Grape Growers Association.
Showcase files from University Relations ranging from 1983-2004. Faculty award files are included in this collection.
The New York Brewery was founded in 1886 by Rudolph Gorkow. In 1900 it was purchased and its management was consolidated with that of Henco Brewery as the Spokane Brewing and Malting Company, although it continued to function under its own name as a branch operator. In 1903 the branch closed.
In 1902, the Galland-Burke Brewing and Malting Company was also purchased by the Spokane Brewing and Malting Company. All three breweries were operated, at least initially, as branch breweries. The company remained in business until the mid-thirties when the assets were sold to the Sicks-Rainier brewing interests of Puget Sound.
As early as 1953 a computing laboratory was operating on the campus of Washington State University. The Computing Center was established at the University in 1956; at that time, data-processing projects functioned under the auspices of the Department of Mathematics. The University offered two courses on the subject of computers, taught in the Department of Mathematics, beginning with the 1956-1957 academic year.
In 1966, a "Program in Information Science" was initiated which included vastly expanded course offerings and faculty members. By 1970, the Department of Computer Sciences, with 15 faculty members, had been formed; this program offered M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. During the same time period, the Office of Systems and Computing began operations as a part of the Washington State University administrative body. This office directs all data-processing operations performed for University business, many officials of the office hold joint appointments in the Department of Computer Sciences and the WSU Computing Center.
Currently, the Office of Systems and Computing consists of Computer Engineering Services, Mathematical/Statistical Faculty Consultants, University Computing Services, and the Computing Service Center. The Office, in addition to administering these sub-units, allocates computing funds to the colleges, approves all acquisitions of computer-related equipment, performs long-range planning for WSU computing, and represents WSU to the State Data Processing Authority.
The Vice-President for Business is responsible for oversight of a wide variety of administrative matters at the university, including properties and physical facilities. The office includes a property manager among its staff.
Photocopies. Gift; Richard Sanders Allen; 1994.
The departments which became the College of Engineering and Architecture at Washington State University were in place when the school opened in 1892, with the first graduates in 1897. In 1946, a reorganization established the Washington State Institute of Technology as the entity which included the academic departments as the College of Engineering, the School of Mines, the Division of Industrial Research and the Division of Industrial Service. The Institute was again reorganized in July 1966 into a College of Engineering with academic departments, a Research Division and a Technical Extension Service. In 1984, it was redefined as the College of Engineering and Architecture.
Shiro Takeda (1901-1971) and Hisako Manabe (1911-1970) were married on September 13, 1938 in Reno, Nevada. Shiro Takeda emigrated from Japan in 1929 to attend graduate school at Lincoln University in San Francisco. After graduating, he served as editor for The New-World Sun in San Francisco and the Rafu Shimpo in Los Angeles. Hisako was born in San Francisco to immigrant parents born in Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan. In 1942, Hisako gave birth to a son, Terry. In the same year the Takeda family was removed from their home to Heart Mountain Relocation Center, Wyoming via Santa Anita Assembly Center, California by the War Relocation Authority as part of the mass incarceration of Japanese Americans authorized by Executive Order 9066. In 1943, Shiro was hired as a Japanese language instructor for the United States Navy at the University of Colorado, Boulder on May 6, 1943. On July 16, 1943, Hisako and Terry were also released from Heart Mountain. In 2002, the U.S. Navy presented an award for distinguished service to Shiro Takeda (posthumously) and other instructors at the U.S. Navy Japanese Language School.
Executive Order 9066:
In 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, which resulted in the incarceration from 1942 to 1946 of approximately 120,000 adults and children of Japanese ancestry, many of whom were United States citizens. They were expelled from their homes and placed in incarceration camps without due process and in violation of their civil rights. These camps were euphemistically referred to as “relocation centers” or “internment camps”. After decades of advocacy by the Japanese American community, in 1988 the United States issued a formal apology and began redress to survivors of Japanese incarceration during World War II.
Hamtonetta Burgess Carr (circa 1869-1949) and Catherine Burgess Carr (circa 1867-1915) were daughters of Scottish natives Thomas Burgess (1824-1901) and Margaret (McTaggert) Burgess (1841-1877). In 1868, Thomas Burgess founded the town of Bala in Ontario, Canada.
Catherine later married William H. Carr, and Hamtonetta attended Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, circa 1889-1891. Hamtonetta was involved with the Friends' Intelligencer: a Religious and Family Journal as a writer and secretary circa 1908. A portion of their lives was spent in Idaho, including in the cities of Elk River and Lewiston.
In February of 2001, the Spokane Spokesman-Review produced a month long series of articles on black history, focusing in particular on the civil rights movement of the 1960s. As part of that series, Rebecca Nappi conducted a series of interviews with individuals with ties to both the civil rights movement and to Spokane. Some of these interviews were made available at the time in audio format on the Spokesman-Review website, and excerpts from these interviews were used in writing newspaper articles.
The College of Agriculture began as one of six divisions of the Washington Agricultural College, Experiment Station, and School of Science in 1892. The Division of Agriculture became the Department of Agriculture in 1894 when the departmental system was organized. In 1917, that departmental system was reformed into a system of schools and colleges, one of which was the College of Agriculture. WSU's Institute of Agricultural Sciences combined Agriculture, Extension, and other departments in 1946, but was dissolved into its component departments in 1965. In 1982, Agriculture and Home Economics merged to form CAHE (College of Agriculture and Home Economics), and in 2002 CAHE became CAHNRS (College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences).
Extension work at WSU (then WSC) was authorized in 1913 by state legislation. Originally referred to as Agricultural Extension, it was renamed as Cooperative Extension in 1965 and simply as WSU Extension in 2003.
History of the state of Washington's Extension programs can be found in Russell M. Turner's The first 45 years: a history of cooperative extension in Washington State (Pullman, Wash.: [Washington State University Extension Service], 1961). and in Felix Entenmann's The next 25 years: 1960-85 : an update of the history of cooperative extension, Washington State University (Pullman, Wash.: Cooperative Extension, College of Agriculture and Home Economics, Washington State University, 1989).
Geoffrey Wells, who wrote under the name Geoffrey West, was an English novelist, literary critic and biographer. His best-known work, H.G. Wells: Sketch for a Portrait, was published in 1930.
The Whitman County Democratic Central Committee is responsible for the political organization and activity of the Democratic Party in Whitman County. The main duties of the committee are fundraising and canvassing, along with representing the county at state conventions.
Rupert Croft-Cooke was born June 30, 1903 in Edenbridge, Kent, and was educated at Tonbridge School and Wellington College. He began teaching when he was seventeen. He went to Paris that year as a private tutor, then spent two years in Buenos Aires, where besides teaching English he founded and edited the journal La Estrella. In 1925 he returned to London and pursued a career as a free-lance journalist and writer. Soon after, he opened a bookshop in Rochester, Kent, and took up the antiquarian book trade. At the same time he also entered the field of broadcasting, giving a series of radio talks on psychology. In 1930 he went abroad again, spending a year in Germany, writing, and later lecturing in English in Switzerland and Spain. He joined the British Army in 1940 and saw service in Africa and India. After his discharge in 1946 he returned to writing and produced several works reflecting his military experience. He became the book critic for The Sketch in 1947, a position he held until 1953. He died June 10, 1979.
One of the most prolific writers for the British mass market in the 20th century, Croft-Cooke produced countless magazine and journal articles and more than 125 books--everything from co-books to political commentary, from books about circuses to steamy romances. His greatest success, however, came in the genre of detective fiction; he published nearly thirty detective novels, mysteries and thrillers.
His first book, Songs of a Sussex Tramp, a collection of poetry, was published in 1922, when he was nineteen. When, shortly after the appearance of his Songs, another of his works precipitated a suit for slander, his publisher, in order to recoup losses he had suffered, forced Croft-Cooke to produce ten books without renumeration. After a self-imposed two year-long exile in Argentina, he returned to England in 1925. He continued to write and his work appeared in the literary magazines New Writing, Adelphi, Chapbook, The New Coterie and English Review. In the late 1920s several of his pieces were published in the American magazine, Poetry.
With the coming of the Great Depression in the 1930s, however, Croft-Cooke rejected the "cult of poetry and literature" and embraced the "cult of experience." Characterizing himself as a "writer for the middle class," he produced numerous works in diverse genres for the mass market. In addition to more than twenty volumes of autobiographical writing and several romantic novels, he also wrote books on travel, food and wine, circus life and gypsies. He explored the politics of the Hitler era, creating a near best-seller in The Man in Europe, as well as Rule Britannia, and The Last Days of Madrid. Croft-Cooke's greatest popularity with both British and American readers was based on his detective fiction and thrillers. Using the pseudonym Leo Bruce, he wrote two series of detective novels. The first, begun in 1936, was based on the adventures of Sergeant Beef, a bumbling village policeman. His second sleuth was introduced in 1952. This new hero, Carolus Deane, a witty and urbane gentleman, was the antithesis of Sergeant Beef. Both series of novels created Croft-Cooke's greatest literary success.
Gisèle Freund was born December 19, 1908, in the Schoneberg district of Berlin, Germany, to Jewish parents who had a passion for collecting art. Her father’s gift of a camera to the fifteen-year-old Gisèle set the course of her life. During her university years in Frankfurt, where she studied sociology, Freund took an active political stand against National Socialism. Forced to flee Germany in 1933, she landed in Paris with little more than a suitcase containing her camera and some photographic documentation of Nazi violence. At the Sorbonne her doctoral studies emphasized the history of nineteenth century French photography. Her friendship with Adrienne Monnier, the proprietress of La Maison des Amis des Livres bookshop (which published her dissertation) provided Freund with access to the literary elite of Paris.
The exigency to make a living led Freund to photography as a serious vocation. Life magazine published some of Freund’s early projects in the mid-1930s. Other significant commissions from that period include the dust jacket photographs for the first hard cover editions of Andre Malraux’s Man’s Fate (1935) and James Joyce’s Finnegans Wake (1939). In 1939, Freund had her first private showing at the Peggy Guggenheim Gallery in London. In 1940, Freund fled Nazi-occupied Paris, first to southern France and then to South America, where she continued her photographic assignments throughout the war. In 1947, she began a seven-year association with Magnum, the photographic news agency established by Robert Capa and others, including Henri Cartier-Bresson. Freund’s first public exhibition was in 1975 in New York, at the Robert Schoelkopf Gallery. Three years later, Freund was awarded the photokina Kulturpreis, and she was the first woman to receive the Grand Prix National des Arts in 1980. Gisèle Freund died in Paris on April 1, 2000.
Along with her documentary reportage, Freund is best known for her photographic portraits, many of them in color which, she said, came closer to life, including studies of some of the greatest literary and artistic figures of the twentieth century. This list includes James Joyce, Samuel Beckett, George Bernard Shaw, H.G. Wells, Leonard and Virginia Woolf, Andre Malraux, Jean Cocteau, Marcel Duchamp, and Henri Matisse.
Established in 1937, the National Youth Administration was a New Deal program dealing with the effects of the Great Depression. Among other things, it provided grants to college students in exchange for work. The National Youth Administration was closed in 1943.
The A.A. Rounds house was constructed circa 1925, and remains mostly unaltered today. Adolphus A. Rounds (1872-1947) came to Pullman with his new wife, Pearl, circa 1910-1911, and set up practice as a dentist. He was very active in the community, serving as a City Councilman and head of the Chamber of Commerce. The house is located at the northwest corner of Monroe and Garfield Streets, on Pullman's College Hill. The property blueprints and drawings were created by Stanley Smith and Fred G. Rounds (no known relation to A.A. Rounds). Smith was Washington State College's campus architect in the 1920s and 1930s, and is responsible for most of the significant campus buildings built during that era; the independent firm of Smith and Rounds designed a number of Pullman-area homes and businesses as well.
In October of 1891 photographer Frank La Roche (1853-1936), of Seattle, traveled north to Everett on commission for the Puget Sound Wire Nail and Steel Company, and began photographing the booming area. He returned to the region at least three more times in 1891-1892.
La Roche is best known for his photographs of the Klondike during the Alaskan gold rush in the 1890s.
The Farmers Educational and Cooperative Union of America, called the Farmers Union, was organized in 1902 in Rains County, Texas, to improve the welfare of families who make their living by farming. The structure of the Union is community based; individuals join together to form locals, three or more locals form a county union, the state organization is made up of locals and counties which together form the National Farmers Union. The Farmers Union places a strong emphasis on education, cooperative efforts, and legislation.
As indicated by the records, the Farmers Union in Clark County, Washington, became active in the late 1940s. Charter Oak Local received its charter in 1947. The other locals in the county are Enterprise, Sara, and Evergreen. The Clark County organization received its charter in 1947.
James Jerome Hill (1838-1916) was a famous Canadian-born American industrialist, best known for his achievements as the head of the Great Northern Railway Company.
This collection consists of two muster rolls, the official lists of enlisted men and officers comprising a military unit, of the First Regiment of Infantry stationed at Fort Crawford (later Prairie du Chien, WI), Michigan Territory. The rolls are dated October 29, 1832 and December 10, 1832 and signed by Col. Zachary Taylor, future president of the United States. Taylor assumed command of this regiment in April of 1832.
The town of Pampa (near present day LaCrosse, Washington) was founded in 1889 by David and Rachel Bowman. The expansion of the Union Pacific Railroad increased settler access to the region. Two notable families were the Hoopers and the Turners, who had been in the region since the 1870s. There was a post office from 1894 until 1919. The town dissolved in 1929, when the school was consolidated with the LaCrosse school.
The Gordon Brothers General Merchandise Store was established by 1888, at which time it was owned by T.H. Logsdon and J.H. Mason. In 1893, they sold it to Charles Woehr, who owned it until 1898. Emory and Frank Gordon bought the store in 1898 and sold it to Ai Camp in 1905, who eventually closed the store in 1919. The store sold a wide range of goods and served as a meeting place for the surrounding community. The busiest day of the week was Saturday, but the store was open every day. The store engaged in barter, including trade for the Hoopers’ annual apple harvest.
When the Gordon brothers bought the store in 1898, it cost them $200 and had an inventory of goods valued at $1,825.55. They added a coal house and an oil house in 1901. James Emory (b. 1867) and Frank L. Gordon (b. 1871) were two of six children of Jonathon F. and Lizzie Gordon. Their father was a carpenter, and their parents moved from Burlington, Iowa in 1870, traveling first to Ogden, Utah and eventually ended up homesteading in Covello, near Dayton, Washington. Frank attended business college in Portland in 1890 and 1891, and returned to work in Dayton, Washington. Emory raised livestock with his brother Worden for several years, but eventually went into business with Frank when they bought the general merchandise store. Frank Gordon married Alice Bowman (the daughter of the Tampa founders) in 1909, and Emory Gordon married Mary Steward in 1907.
Need for both electric power and agricultural water supply resulted in multiple dams being placed on rivers in the Columbia River drainage basin in the mid 20th century. These included the Dworshak Dam (Clearwater North Fork, initial construction running from 1966-1972), Ice Harbor Dam (Snake River, 1955-1961), and the Little Goose Dam (Snake River, 1963-1970), among many others.
The North Pacific Grain Growers Company (NPGG) came into existence as a regional cooperative in late 1929 in Lewiston, ID, and organized as a company in April of 1930 in Spokane, WA. Following the stock market crash of 1929, agricultural prices plummeted to the point that farmers would be selling their crops at a loss. To prevent the collapse of the U.S. agricultural system, the Federal Farm Board's Grain Stabilization Corporation arranged loans for farmers. The NPGCC was created to handle initial loans of $3,500,000 for northwest farmers. Following that crisis, it remained in existence as a cooperative for the benefit of regional farmers. In 1938 the NPGG moved its headquarters to Portland, OR, where it would remain until 1983, when it merged with the Farmers Union Grain Terminal Association to become the Harvest States Cooperatives. In turn, that was merged into Cenex in 1998.
Grain elevators are towers which use (usually) bucket elevators or pneumatic conveyors to move grain from near-ground levels into a silo. The technology was developed in the 1840s, and allowed grain to be transported in bulk in vehicles rather than having to be bagged. Most small eastern Washington communities had their own grain elevators, usually located alongside railways ort rovers. The elevators in the scrapbook in this collection were photographed in 1918-1919, and most no longer exist due to improvements in agricultural technology, the natural decay of what were primarily wooden buildings, and changes in transportation capabilities. The river-based elevators in the loose photographs portion of the collection are mostly still in existence.
Elizabeth Christensen of Lompoc, California, collected older garden catalogs, and some related publications, over a period several years beginning in about 1970 and continuing until the transfer of the collection to the Washington State University Libraries in 1996. Catalogs were acquired from many sources, including individuals, antique dealers, and chance finds. Some catalogs, chiefly recent, were acquired from their publishers.
Mrs. Christensen has explained some aspects of the history of horticultural catalogs in a manuscript, Of Seed Catalogs and Companies that accompanies the collection. She adds further information in Japanese Imperial Morning Glories, Pacific Horticulture (Fall 1989).
Charles Stanton Benson (1874-1959) was a piano teacher who lived a reclusive lifestyle in northern Idaho. Benson hailed from a pioneering Northwest family, who settled in Walla Walla, Washington during the nineteenth century. According to the Fort Walla Walla Historical Society, Benson was the first white child born in eastern Oregon Territory. Instead of following the family business of farming, Benson studied at the Whitman College Conservatory of Music, where he graduated circa 1897. By 1912, he led the Benson Orchestra, but with the arrival and popularity of jazz in the subsequent decades, the group disbanded. Benson worked at a piano store in Walla Walla, where he traveled around Washington, Oregon, and Idaho, before settling down in Idaho. He opened a studio in Wallace before moving to Kellogg in 1918.
Little is known about his first marriage, other than he had a daughter who died in early adulthood, named Paloma Zuerita Benson Spenier (1902-1930), and his marriage did not last. In 1929, he married Pearl Wilson, a woman twenty years his junior. Both partners studied and were devout Christian Scientists. According to the donor of this collection, Larry Persons, Pearl destroyed Benson's diaries dating prior to 1934, as well as some other documents that dealt with Benson's working with other women. He also observed that Charles' and Pearl's marriage was not a happy one.
Benson owned the studio in Kellogg until 1932, when he started teaching out of his home. He lived in a cabin owned by the U.S. Forest Service in Two Mile Creek, outside of Osburn, Idaho, at first during the summers, and eventually full time. In 1955, he gave up the cabin for good, as it was falling into disrepair. In the same year, he also suffered a stroke. He died in 1959 and was buried in Walla Walla with his pioneering family members.
Arthur Monrad Johnson was born at Fredrikstad in Norway in 1878. He attended the University of Minnesota, receiving his B.S. in 1904. For the next decade he was a high school teacher in Washington and Minnesota, after which he entered graduate school in botany at the University of Minnesota, completing the Ph.D. in 1919. From 1919 to 1927 he held a succession of academic posts at the University of Minnesota, Harvard University and the University of Wisconsin. In 1927, he joined the faculty of the Southern Branch of the University of California (now University of California-Los Angeles), where he remained until retirement. His main interests were taxonomy, ecology and plant geography. The genus Saxifraga occupied much of his attention.
While a high school teacher in Colfax, Washington, Johnson developed a liking for the Eastern Washington region. Perhaps it was for this reason that he directed that his research notes be left at Washington State University upon his death. This attraction to Eastern Washington he explained in 1938 to a young botanist who had complained of the seemingly botanical barrenness of the area:
Your remarks about the Palouse country as compared to California amused me. Of course California--well it is California, and that's that. But, "when summer comes," I venture to predict that you will begin to attune yourself to the Palouse country. Perhaps you will never thrill over it, as I did, when I landed in Colfax in 1905, from Minnesota, but nevertheless I think you will develop a liking for it, for to my mind it is one of the most fascinating botanizing regions in America. This is true floristically, phytogeographically, and ecologically, the vegetation is soft, friendly, and inviting, like all northern vegetation, not the d--- spiny, prickly, rigid, tangled, skin-and-temper-tearing sort like that of much of southern California, which draws out all the curses of the English Language whenever one tries to press a specimen. Phytogeographically and ecologically I found the "contact" of the eastern, the northern and the boreal, and the southern (Sonoran) floras one of the most fascinating features of the Palouse and adjacent montane floras. I was always searching every nook and cranny for the "outliers" of these vegetation types. The various plant communities, too, were a constant source of interest, for they were many and diverse, and well defined. The buttes, the canyons, the bottom lands--well, I scoured all of them. When you have covered the marvelous Snake River gorge, the Clearwater gorge, and that of the Palouse, and the foothills of the Bitterroots, if you then haven't gotten some thrills, well--I think I should take you in hand for a special treatment. A. M. Johnson to Carl Sharsmith, March 6, 1938, Sharsmith Papers
Leroy Olsen (1921-1984) was a professor of education at Washington State University from 1955 to 1984. He was born and raised in North Dakota, and served in the United States Navy in the Pacific during World War II, surviving the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. After the war, he attended the University of North Dakota, earning undergraduate and graduate degrees (Bachelor of Philosophy in psychology, 1948; Master of Science in psychology, 1949; Doctor of Education in counseling and educational psychology, 1955).
In May, 1970 at Washington State University, students led demonstrations against U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, and challenged university officials to recognize institutional racism as a fundamental problem with the university system. The Black Student Union (BSU), established at WSU in the fall of 1968, spearheaded May protests against racism and, in conjunction with several other radical organizations, presented President Glenn Terrell with eleven demands. Terrell initially rejected the demands which had called for, among other things, a mandatory ten day workshop in the fall to heighten faculty awareness of racism. 3,000 students protested that decision on May 21, 1970. On May 28, 1970, the Resident Instructional Staff (RIS) approved of two racism workshops, one for the fall of 1970 and one for the Spring of 1971. To plan the event, the RIS created the Minority Student Committee on Racism Workshops. To run the committee, Terrell appointed four minority students, Sarah Dennis, Ron Taplin, Rebecca Hobbs, and Rudy Ryser. The students planned to host prominent movement speakers, present movies, and make available printed handouts concerning racism. Although leaders of the BSU and MEChA (a Chicano students' organization) denounced the racism workshops as manifest symbols of university paternalism, the first racism workshop took place on October 7-8, 1970 and attracted 20,000 people. The second was held on March 9-10, 1971, and had a much smaller crowd.
Millard Hastay was born in Montana, Sep. 8, 1916. He graduated from high school at Portland, Oregon, in 1934. He completed undergraduate education at Reed College in 1941. His graduate education was at Stanford University and at Columbia University. He received the Ph.D. degree from Columbia in 1958. From 1946 to 1958 he worked as an economics researcher with the National Bureau of Economic Research in New York. He also taught economics at the City College of New York from 1954 to 1958. In 1958 Hastay began employment at Washington State University. There he specialized in economic theory, econometrics, statistics and related subjects. He retired in 1981.
The Panhellenic Council was an organization designed to bring the WSU campus sororities together to foster fair conduct for all the members of the sororities. This campus level organization was also under the Western Regional Panhellenic Council, which, in 1984, merged with the Western Regional Interfraternity Conference to create the Western Regional Greek Conference. As of 2018, it continues to operate as the Association of Fraternal Leadership and Values.
Beginning in 1931, the United States Department of Agriculture began cooperative studies with the State College of Washington. Projects covered cereal improvements, cereal diseases, noxious weed investigations, and seed production investigations. Notable individuals involved in the projects were Orville Vogel, C.S. Holton, C.I. Seely, Robert Allan, and W.C. Robocker.
Ethel M. (Faulkner) Womack (1901-1995) was born in Nebraska and moved to Spokane, WA, as a young adult. She married C. Ellis Womack (1904-1983) in 1923. She worked as a secretary for Womack and Conboy Plumbing in Spokane, and was a member of Messiah Lutheran Church and of the Ladies' Auxiliary of the Plumbers' Union and the Auxiliary of Master Plumbers.
Attorney and military officer.
James P. Leynse was born in Middleburg, Holland, on March 20, 1890. At an early age Leynse showed a talent for rhetoric and had ambitions as a stage actor. His Dutch-Calvanist father challenged him to do more with his life and this eventually led him to the University of Leiden to study for the ministry in the Dutch Reformed Church.
As soon as he was ordained, Leynse elected to serve as a missionary in China. His church did not have any missions in China at that time; but this stopped him only momentarily. He decided to seek affiliation with the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions in the United States. The American officials, however, were not satisfied with his education and required him to study for two more years at Princeton University and be ordained once again.
Shortly after he completed his additional studies, his Dutch fiancee, Anna Marie Groenendyk, came to America and they were married on June 21, 1920. They sailed for China in December 1920 and for the next 29 years their home was the Presbyterian Mission in Peking. It was there that their two sons, Humphrey and Waldo, were born.
Leynse's first three years in China were spent learning to read and speak Mandarin Chinese at the College of Chinese studies. At this time Peking was noted for its poverty, beggars, and disease. One of Leynse's first jobs was the organization of kitchens which served free millet porridge to thousands of the hungry. Leynse soon realized, however, that he was only treating a symptom of the problem. Therefore, he wrote to Holland and asked his sister Francina Leynse for help. She arrived in 1930 and for 15 years helped to establish and run an industrial center where homeless women and children could learn a skill.
With the Japanese invasion and subsequent occupation of China, larger problems loomed for the Leynses. At first the Japanese permitted Leynse to continue the Peking Poor Relief Committee. Even though other foreigners were being evacuated the Leynses stayed on in the hopes that the Japanese would continue to overlook them. Late in 1941, they travelled to Japan in order to secure passage to America for their younger son, Waldo. While in Japan they were placed under house arrest and confined for a year and a half. With the aid of Japanese friends they were released and returned to China only to be recaptured and held at the British Embassy in Peking for the remainder of World War II.
During his captivity, Leynse was considerably weakened by bouts with typhoid fever and "sprue" (a disease of the liver and intestines brought on by malnutrition). Despite this ill health he stayed on in China after the Japanese surrender to reorganize and reopen the mission kitchens and hospital.
In 1946 "sprue" attacked him again and he became almost bedridden. Owing to his long service and poor health the mission retired him in 1949. Upon his retirement, Leynse settled in Claremont, California where he began to write.
Unpublished letter. Not included in The Letters of Virginia Woolf, ed. Nicolson. Purchase, Michael Silverman, 2004.
Washington State University was founded as the Washington Agricultural College and School of Science in 1890, and became the State College of Washington (colloquially Washington State College) in 1905. It enrolled its first students and began instruction in January of 1892. Affirmative Action as a program dates to at least 1973, later becoming a piece of Compliance and Civil Rights.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
Ida Louise Anderson was born in Morganton, Tennessee, on 6 November 1900. At three years of age she and her parents moved to Colfax, Washington. Five years later, she returned to Tennessee with her family for a visit. While there, she became gravely ill. Doctors diagnosed her condition as infantile paralysis or polio. During the next several years, Anderson underwent medical and physical therapy in attempt to lessen the disease's effects. Despite treatment, Anderson experienced health changes due to polio, including a severe curvature of the spine. In 1924, Anderson received an undergraduate degree in speech from the State College of Washington. She spent a summer in Alaska before returning to Pullman to begin a sixteen-year teaching career at WSC in the school's Department of Speech. Anderson took advanced speech work at the Boston School of Expression and at the University of California during two summers. She also studied a year at Northwestern University. Her teaching career ended in 1939, when the lingering effects of polio forced her to retire. Shortly, Anderson moved to Oregon to be nearer her sister. She died there on 16 September 1941. Anderson was buried in Colfax, Washington.
Ida Lou Anderson was one of the State College's most respected instructors with a powerful mind and character that reached well beyond the classroom. She pioneered the field of radio broadcasting. One of Anderson's earliest and most impressive students was Edward R. Murrow, a European news correspondent during World War II and a journalist and executive for the news division of the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) through the early 1960s.
Everett M. Webb (1898-1972) and Louise Ott Webb (1902-1981) were both members of the Class of 1924 at Washington State College. Louise earned a Secretarial Training certificate (1922), and Everett earned a Bachelor of Science in Agriculture (1924) and a Master of Arts in Education (1941). Everett Webb was a member of the faculty at Washington State University from 1936 until his retirement in 1964, serving as State Supervisor of Vocational Agriculture and Education. Everett served as a faculty advisor for the Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity (TKE), and worked closely with the Future Farmers of America (FFA) and 4-H Clubs in Washington State. Louise served as the local chapter advisor for the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority (KKG). Both Webbs were very active in the American Legion and in many civic and community organizations.
In 1971, their children, Richard E. Webb, Elizabeth Webb Clark, and Dorothy Webb Loan, established the Everett M. and Louise Ott Webb Scholarship at WSU for undergraduate students majoring in agricultural education.
Frank Abe is a third generation Japanese American whose father was incarcerated at Heart Mountain, Wyoming. He received his B.A. in theater directing from the University of California, Santa Cruz and trained with the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco. He was a founding member of the Asian American Theater Workshop in San Francisco and the Asian American Journalists Association in Seattle. He produced and directed the award-winning documentary “Conscience and the Constitution” about the largest resistance to the World War II incarceration of Japanese Americans.
The National Council for Japanese American Redress was formed in 1979 and is best known for instituting a class action lawsuit against the United States government for damages due to wartime incarceration.
The United States Federal Government passed The Civil Liberties Act in 1988, offering a formal apology to those who were incarcerated and making payments of $20,000 in compensation to surviving victims.
[Sources: “Conscience and the Constitution”, ITVS, accessed October 9, 2019
“National Council for Japanese American Redress”, Densho Encyclopedia online, 2019.]
Gift, James E. Lindsay, 1930.
Author and editor, London, England.
Bob Wethern (1921-2008) was born in Walla Walla, Washington to Milton and Rita Wethern. After attending schools in Washington and Minnesota, he entered the University of Idaho, where he majored in journalism. While a student, he became the sports editor of the Daily Idahonian.
Beginning in 1946 Wethern worked as a reporter and photographer at the Bremerton Sun, leaving in 1957 to take a position at the National Association of Manufacturers in Portland, Oregon, where he remained until his retirement in 1979.
Wethern's interest in sports and outdoor writing extended beyond his work as a journalist, and continued throughout his life. He edited a series of angling histories, the Rivers of Oregon, and played an important role in preparing the work of other writers for publication, including Lee Richardson and Robert H. Smith.
He was a charter member of the Flyfishers Club of Oregon, and also belonged to the Tau Epsilon fraternity, the Oregon Society of Association Executives, Toastmasters International, the Tacoma Club, the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, and the Federation of Fly Fishermen.
The Associated Students of Washington State University serves as the government for the general student body. In 1915 the Associated Students of the State College of Washington was founded. When the college changed its name in 1959 to Washington State University, the association changed its name to the Associated Students of Washington State University (ASWSU). The ASWSU functions as the central office for student interests and concerns.
Colin Sandwith was a student in the Veterinary program at Washington State College. He was admitted in 1908 and graduated in 1911.
The Health and Safety Committee was a subcommittee of the University Senate. Prior to the reorganization of the University Senate in 1971 the Health and Safety Committee was a presidential committee. Committees of the University Senate were intended to act as liaisons between the faculty, students, and the administration, the committee acts by request of the University Senate on Health and Safety concerns. Committees were composed of eight faculty members, three students, an elected Director and Chairman. The University Senate was reorganized in 1971.
The Northwest Horticultural Council was organized in 1947 by horticulturalists in Oregon and Washington in order to coordinate the efforts of the Perishable Traffic Bureau and the Oregon-Washington Horticultural Export Council as well as local organizations in Medford and Hood River, Oregon, and Yakima and Wenatchee, Washington. The initial purpose was to present a unified position in the face of federal government decisions and regulations effecting the Northwest fruit industry. Other stated objectives of the Council included the promoting of domestic and foreign trade, dealing with the pesticide issue, resolving problems common to the fruit producers and shippers, and generally advancing the interests of Northwest horticulturalists. From its headquarters in Yakima, the Council currently represents approximately 7500 growers and 200 shippers.
Mr. Edwin Burgess, a lawyer with wide railroad experience, was chosen in 1960 to represent the interests of the Mercantile Safe Deposit and Trust Company of Baltimore in the proposed merger of the Atlantic and the Seaboard. Mercantile held fiduciary control over nearly 35 per cent of the Atlantic Coast Line and thus would gain a controlling interest in the newly merged company.
This new railroad would bring together the 5,573 miles of track of the Atlantic with the 4,146 miles of the Seaboard. Both roads were in strong financial condition when they appeared before the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) for permission to merge. This merger, they claimed, would save the new line nearly 38 million dollars over a five year period. In addition, the merger would hasten the lowering of rates, eliminate duplication of service in many areas, and generally improve rail service along the whole southeastern coast of the United States.
The historical importance of this merger was recognized at the time since mergers between financially strong competitors were generally conceived as favoring monopolistic trends. Michael Conant in his 1964 study Railroad Mergers and Abandonment commented: "A significant aspect of this case was the petition of intervening railroads that as a condition of approval the Commission require the Seaboard and the Atlantic Coast Line to transfer specific sections of their lines to intervenors. . . All these requests for conditions to the merger were based on the argument that the merged line would divert so much traffic from the intervenors that their solvency would be endangered. (p. 80)"
The ICC rejected all arguments opposed to the merger since to permit them to stand would have frustrated the overall objectives of the merger. Thus, in approving the merger the ICC held that it was of greater import to eliminate wasteful transport and increase efficiency than to allow a near monopolistic situation to arise in the area's rail service. However, two of the ICC examiners did reject the proposed merger on the grounds that it would not help preserve rail competition in the southeastern United States.
The decision of the ICC favoring merger was rendered on December 2, 1963. The merger, however, was not completed until several years of intervenor's court appeals were finally ended when the United States Supreme Court, in a per curiam decision, sustained the merger on May 10, 1967.
Dr. James S. Englund was an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Washington State University. Dr. Englund began teaching at Washington State College in 1948.
Wilhelm Nikolaus Suksdorf (1850-1932) was a renowned botanist of the Pacific Northwest during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. He was born in Holstein, Germany, and immigrated to Iowa as a small child. A few years after moving to the Midwest, the Suksdorf family moved to Bingen, Washington. Working on the family farm as a boy, Suksdorf became interested in the plant life around him and began collecting specimens. He entered the University of California in the mid-1870s, where he communicated with and sent his specimens to Dr. Asa Gray of Harvard, considered by many to be the most important American botanist of the nineteenth century. Gray was impressed with Suksdorf's work and in 1886, invited him to the Gray Herbarium at Harvard for the next two years to be his assistant. Gray even named a plant genus after Suksdorf, Suksdorfia. Following Gray's death in 1888, Suksdorf returned to his home in Klickitat County where he continued working as a botanist until his death.
His private herbarium contained around 25,000 specimens, which were donated to Washington State University following his death. Suksdorf discovered and named many plants, and in 1892 made the first list of flowering plants and ferns of Washington. From 1896 until 1931, he continued to contribute to the discovery and classification of plants in the Northwest, publishing much of his findings. On October 3, 1932, he was killed by a train at a railway station in his hometown of Bingen.
The Department of Agricultural Engineering was first organized in 1909. In 1926 a four year professional course began, the work being jointly administered by the Deans of the College of Agriculture and the College of Engineering. The divided administration remains in 1983. The College of Engineering administers the curriculum; the College of Agriculture administers the research and the Cooperative Extension work. Students enrolled in the department are from both colleges. Some graduate from the College of Engineering with a degree in Agricultural Engineering. Others graduate from the College of Agriculture with a Farm Mechanization specialty.
The Board of Natural Resources sets policies to guide how the Washington State Department of Natural Resources (DNR) manages our state’s lands and resources. The board was formed when DNR was created in 1957.
John Boyington Hitchcock was a lifelong resident of the state of Washington, and attended Washington State College as an undergraduate and graduate student. Interviewed in 2010, Hitchcock, then 90 years of age, recalled his boyhood in Ocosta, near Grays Harbor, Washington, his high school years, coming to Eastern Washington to attended Washington State College, and his early years as a secondary education teacher. Hitchcock also recounts his service in World War II and return to teaching after the war. He served as superintendent of schools in Rosalia and Forks, Washington.
Both the Gaines and McCulloch families arrived in Washington from the Midwest at the turn of the twentieth century. Edward F. Gaines (1886-1944) was born in Missouri and moved as a teenager with his family to a farm near Chewelah. The McCulloch family and young Xerpha Mae (1891-1970) left Wisconsin to homestead near Othello.
Edward F. Gaines graduated from the State Normal School at Cheney (now Eastern Washington University) in 1907. He then worked as a public school principal and teacher in Ritzville, where he met Xerpha Mae McCulloch, who graduated from high school there in 1910. Edward left Ritzville in 1909 to continue his education at the State College of Washington (now Washington State University) in Pullman where he earned his bachelor and master of science degrees in agronomy in 1911 and 1913, respectively.
Throughout his career, Edward was associated with several plant genetics pioneers, as a student, colleague, and mentor. One of his students was Karl Sax, who received his bachelor's degree in agriculture from WSC in 1916 and became a leading cytologist and plant geneticist, and National Academy of Science member. Sax credited Edward Gaines for introducing him as an undergraduate to research in plant breeding, and encouraging his pursuit of graduate studies, and they remained correspondents throughout Gaines's lifetime.
Another lifelong correspondent was Harry B. Humphrey, who had been Edward's botany professor at WSC and became long-time phytopathologist with the Bureau of Plant Industry of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). In an obituary for Edward in the journal Phytopathology, Humphrey wrote that his most important contributions centered on his genetic studies of bunt resistance in wheat and smut resistance in wheat and oats. Gaines developed the Triplet, Ridit, and Albit wheat varieties to increase both yields and smut resistance. Orville Vogel, renowned wheat breeder at WSU with the USDA, named two wheat varieties for Edward Gaines: Gaines (1961), the first semidwarf winter wheat for commercial production, and NuGaines (1965).
Xerpha McCulloch Gaines established her own legacy at WSC. Though she pursued her education at WSC in the first years of marriage, raising her four children delayed her graduation until 1930 when she received her bachelor of arts degree in education and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa.
Married in 1912, Edward F. and Xerpha McCulloch Gaines made their home in Pullman as Edward continued in his position as Assistant Cerealist and Instructor of Agronomy. Edward spent a semester at Harvard University in 1915 studying genetics and plant breeding under Dr. Edward M. East at the Bussey Institution for Research in Applied Biology. He returned in 1920, and received his Doctor of Science degree in 1921. At the same time, he continued on the faculty at WSC, rising to Cerealist in 1917 and serving as Assistant Professor of Farm Crops from 1918 to 1926, Associate Professor from 1926 to 1930, and as Professor of Genetics in Agronomy from 1930 until his death in 1944.
Xerpha began a collaboration in 1950 with Dr. Theodore Scheffer of the U.S. Biological Survey to collect plant specimens in the area around Grand Coulee Dam with their results published in a 1957 article: "A Botanical Survey of the Grand Coulee-Eastern Washington," Research Studies of the State College of Washington 25.3 (Sept. 1957): 207-235. In 1957 she accepted an invitation from the Museum of Northern Arizona for a May botanical collection raft trip down the Colorado River through the area soon to be inundated behind the Glen Canyon Dam. She published her results in an article, "Plants in Glen Canyon," Plateau 30, no. 2 (October 1957): 31-34.
For each of the above botanical surveys, Xerpha collected specimens for herbaria. The University of Washington's Burke Museum herbarium today lists nearly 400 specimens collected by Xerpha Gaines, many from the Grand Coulee surveys. A University of Utah publication about the 1957 Colorado River trip noted that Xerpha Gaines collected specimens from 150 species for the Museum of Northern Arizona herbarium. Because of her association with what is now WSU's Ownbey Herbarium, Xerpha duplicated her Glen Canyon specimens there as well as adding her many specimens collected over her years in the Palouse.
After retirement, Xerpha continued her work, identifying specimens from home at her kitchen table. The WSU Agronomy Club and Agronomy and Soils Department dedicated its Spring 1971 Agronomy and Men issue to Xerpha Gaines, noting that "[h]er reputation as an excellent 'seed hawk' was known throughout the Inland Empire and the State." Xerpha listed under "Hobbies, recreational activities, specialties" on a 1957 WSC personnel information form: "Taxonomy of plants and plant collecting Seeds." That lifelong interest culminated in the posthumous publication of a book, co-authored with D.G. Swan, Weeds of Eastern Washington and Adjacent Areas (1972).
In 2008, Dr. Stephen Jones, Director at the WSU Research and Extension Center in Mt. Vernon, released "Xerpha," a new variety of soft-white common winter wheat named after Xerpha Gaines.
Edward and Xerpha Gaines had four children: Edward M. (1913-2000), Xerpha Mae (1915-2003), John (1917-1955), and Grant (1922-1965). Xerpha Mae Gaines was always known as "Mae." All four siblings graduated from WSC. In 1938 Mae married Ramon Kent, who had a long career with the Soil Conservation Service primarily out of the Spokane office. Janice Gaines Walker, daughter of Grant, and Jocelyn Liu, granddaughter of Mae Gaines Kent, were instrumental in the donation of this collection to WSU.
Marc H. Ratzlaff is a professor emeritus in the Department of Veterinary and Comparative Anatomy, Pharmacology and Physiology (VCAPP) at Washington State University (WSU).
Randall Johnson, 1915-2007, designed the original WSC cougar head logo in July of 1936 while a summer student employee at Washington State College. When WSC became Washington State University in 1959, Johnson proposed a logo redesign which was accepted with only one very slight change.
Johnson graduated from WSC in Fine Arts in 1938, and went on to become art director at the Washington Water Power Co. He retired in 1975, and spent the remainder of his life in the Spokane area. He sold his iconic cougar head logo design to WSU for one dollar in 1959.
A native of Missouri, Marion Ownbey was one of three twentieth century Ownbeys associated with plant taxonomy, the others being his brother Gerald Ownbey and his wife Ruth Peck Ownbey. His botanical education began at the University of Wyoming and its Rocky Mountain Herbarium and continued at Washington University in St. Louis and the associated Missouri Botanical Garden. Major influences on the early parts of his education were Aven Nelson and J. M. Greenman, two older taxonomists whose methods stressed close study of the details of plants, especially of dried specimens, and careful and precise organization of the knowledge of those plants. Their approach had been especially useful in criticizing and revising the original description of North American flora, a development in which both had also participated. Though their approach was similar to that long used by botanists, it tried the patience of many, who could see no relation between modern science and the dried plant collections of the "haymaker" botanists, as they were derisively called. Moreover, their field had been much vexed by a troublesome and perhaps needless debate over the rules of botanical nomenclature. Nevertheless, by the 1920s and 1930s American taxonomists had essentially completed a catalog of North American plants and were well into a cycle of critical revision. This revisionary cycle consisted largely of a long sequence of "monographed genera." By the 1920s, this expression had come to mean the extensive and comprehensive examination of all literature and herbarium specimens of particular genera, resulting in lengthy and exhaustive monographic publications, then considered the mark of competence as a plant taxonomist. In this milieu, Ownbey began his career as a botanist. Not surprisingly he began with an attempt to study and revise Castellija, an extensive and complex genus which other taxonomists had worked with for years without producing a definitive statement.
Ownbey encountered difficulties with his effort to become the authoritative specialist on Castellija, and not until much later in his life did he complete his Castellija project. Yet it was not simply problems with this genus which marked his early career, but problems with the whole approach of plant taxonomy, and the influence of a newer means for approaching this science. This influence had come into the Missouri Botanical Garden in the person of Edgar Anderson, a geneticist who had, as he put it, invaded the field of plant taxonomy in search of an explanation of the mechanisms of the evolution of species. Anderson appeared to offer a newer philosophy for taxonomy, a field which seemed to be in need of such. He called for a combination of genetics, cytology and taxonomy, with a considerable influence of such diverse fields as paleontology, archaeology, anthropology and history also represented in his approach. Anderson's approach tended to stress common weeds and agronomic plants typified by the common road-side plants of the genus Tradescantia. (See Edgar Anderson, Plants, Men and Life (Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1952) 16-30.) Ownbey may even have assisted briefly in the famous Tradescantia project.
Anderson's influence also appeared in Ownbey's adoption of the genus Calochortus as his primary field of investigation, for this genus featured many examples of the hybridizations and combinations of genetic materials which Anderson stressed. Calochortus, accordingly, became a life-long interest. A similar generic revision was added to Ownbey investigations in the early 1940s, shortly after he had become a botany instructor and herbarium curator at Washington State University. The second project concerned the genus Allium, a diverse genus containing both natural and domestic species and again much characterized by various hybridizations. Done in conjunction with a WSU cytologist, Hannah Aase, the Allium project combined traditional methods of plant description with root-tip chromosome counts and garden experiments. It resulted in a number of papers which constituted definitive revision of the North American species of this genus. In addition to these two projects, Ownbey began work on a general Flora of the Pacific Northwest with another Missouri Botanical Garden alumnus, C. Leo Hitchcock, who by the 1940s was at the University of Washington. Ownbey also participated briefly in a war-time botanical expedition seeking pharmaceutical plants in Ecuador.
Had Ownbey continued as he started he would have been known principally as someone who had revised hybridization-prone genera and as a contributor to a regional Flora. However, an almost accidental observation in the late 1940s took his career into a considerably different direction and into the project with which he became identified in his profession. This project concerned the genus Tragopogon, an introduced plant of the American West, some varieties of which had been used as a garden vegetable. This genus was prone to hybridization and Ownbey observed it informally for several years. He first commented on it in 1946 in a letter to geneticist Charles Heiser. But not until early June of 1949 did he make the discovery that he had observed the natural evolution of new species of Tragopogon occurring in his back yard. The first known observation of a species evolving in nature, Ownbey's Tragopogon study indicated that a chromosomal doubling had occurred without human intervention and an apparently stable species had appeared. His description to a colleague carried his sense of excitement about the discovery of the polyploid Tragopogon species:
"I have been having an exciting time this spring studying the origins of species in Tragopogon through natural hybridization and amphiploidy. We have three introduced species in the Palouse area which hybridize readily whenever any two grow together. The three Fl hybrids are highly sterile but give rise on occasion to three possible amphiploid. I have been observing the Fl hybrids between the two species for several years. This spring I found their amphidiploid and with this lead worked out the rest of the story. It is easily the most spectacular case that has yet been discovered. This would apply to the first case let alone its triplication." (Ownbey to Phillip Munz, June 28, 1949)
An informal paper on the genetic behavior of Tragopogon presented these observations in the spring of 1949. The following year a more formal presentation appeared in the American Journal of Botany, at which time Ownbey assigned names and published description of the two newly-evolved species of Tragopogon. Despite the publication of the species, Ownbey felt a degree of reservation about his findings. In later publications he expressed caution about the validity of the new species, although he continued to list them. Such, for example, was his practice in Vascular Plants of the Pacific Northwest, the regional Flora produced in cooperation with his associate Hitchcock and another collaborator, Arthur Cronquist, who joined in the project in the late 1940s.
Tragopogon tended to dominate the rest of Ownbey's botanical career. His initial article of the subject quickly proved to be a classic. More writing on the subject followed closely. Then in 1954, the investigation of further phases of Tragopogon won Ownbey a Guggenheim fellowship. The fellowship enabled Ownbey to spend a year in Europe examining historical Tragopogon specimens, as well as affording time to observe some species in their native area of the Balkan peninsula. It also enabled him to establish contact with Russian, Bulgarian and Turkish botanists, who offered to find specimens of the varieties of Tragopogon found in remote areas, principally within the Soviet Union.
Ownbey returned to the United States with much information about Tragopogon, though not enough to complete a global generic survey. For several years he sought to acquire the Asian species necessary to the task, but only over a long period of time did some material become available. Even the Russian correspondents had difficulty acquiring materials, as many of the species existed in remote areas of the Caucasus and Asiatic Russia, and, possibly, they had been discouraged from cooperation with a western geneticist. Consequently Ownbey's work with Tragopogon tended to take a more specialized approach. His greenhouse and garden plantings, accordingly, came to be used by himself and a succession of graduate students as materials for examination of very specific questions about genetic mechanisms.
In the later 1950s, Ownbey partly turned his attention from the Tragopogon project to production of Vascular Plants of the Pacific Northwest. Although this five-volume work came to be more the project of Hitchcock and Cronquist, two more traditional taxonomists, Ownbey's genetic insights had an influence. Working in close association with Cronquist, who was located in New York City, Ownbey proved he could also work in traditional manners. This approach also appeared in his contribution of the section on the genus Castellija, in which he "monographed" the genus with Greenmanian thoroughness.
Through the 1950s and 1960s, a constant series of small matters concerning Allium and Calochortus had been in the background of the more spectacular Tragopogon project and the regional flora. Also, Ownbey had been administering the University herbarium during all this time, as well as teaching classes in botany. By the later 1960s the herbarium and his teaching duties began to occupy greater portions of his time, and his research activity slackened. He died in December 1974 at the age of 64. Shortly afterward, the University herbarium was named the Marion Ownbey Herbarium as a tribute to him.
What would become Camp Larson began in the summer of 1950, when Washington State University and the State Society for Crippled Children and Adults sponsored a summer camp at an Episcopal Church Camp located at Point McDonald on Lake Coeur d’Alene. The camp was named Camp Manitowish (or Manitou-Wish), and Roger Larson and Ruth Radir were co-directors. In 1955, WSU purchased 40 acres on Cottonwood Bay (still on Lake Coeur d’Alene), and the camp was moved there, to what would become its permanent home. The Manitowish name was lost in the move, and the new location was known as Camp Easter Seal, which had been an unofficial second name in the earlier location. In 1977 the name was officially changed to Camp WSU, and in 1980 it was named Camp Larson following founder Roger Larson’s retirement. Use of the camp subsequently decreased over the years, and despite a push for renewed usage in the late 1990s, WSU closed the camp in 2003 and sold it the following year.
Richard Old is a weed expert specializing in plants found in the Inland Northwest. He earned his Master's degree in Agronomy from Washington State University in 1981 before earning PhD in Plant Science from the University of Idaho in 1991. Old has served as a weed expert giving lectures, analyzing local weed environments, serving as a forensic botanist, and assisting in the formation of policies related to the control of noxious weeds. Old has also created a weed database titled 1200 Weeds--of the 48 States and Adjacent Canada.
Willis B. Merriam (1905-1986) was born in Spokane, Washington to Willis and Madge Bungay Merriam. He attended North Central High School followed by the State Normal School at Cheney (now Eastern Washington University), where he graduated in 1928. After two years in Alaska, Willis and his wife Florence Coardy Merriam moved to Seattle, where he earned advanced degrees in geography from the University of Washington. In 1936, Merriam began teaching geography at Eastern Washington College of Education (EWU) until 1940. While there, Merriam helped establish the Northwest Scientific Association. During World War II, he was head of the U.S. Army Specialized Training Program (map reading) at the University of Oregon.
In 1945, Willis and Florence Merriam settled in Pullman, where he taught at Washington State University until his retirement in 1970. He taught various aspects of geography, including economic geography, conservation of natural resources, and South American geography, but his specialty was European geography. Both Willis and Florence Merriam liked to travel, and he became well known for the slides he took on their travels. He was a popular professor during his tenure, and remained a popular speaker in Spokane and Pullman for his slides and frequent lectures. He was involved in numerous community groups, including the Pullman Kiwanis, Early Day Toastmasters, Lambda Chi Alpha social fraternity, the Squires Male Choir, and Music Makers Mixed Choir. He was also an actor, and acted in multiple plays that Florence, produced. He helped to found the Pullman Community Theater. Willis Merriam died in 1986 after a bout with cancer.
(From Cage 347: Guide to the C. B. Harston Papers, 1939-1974)
C. B. Harston was born in 1911 at Cowley, Wyoming. In 1938 he received his B.S. from Brigham Young University, and from the University of Missouri he received his M.A. in 1939 and Ph.D. in 1943.
Dr. Harston's career with Washington State University began in 1943 but was interrupted during World War II by military service. In 1964 he undertook a two-year term in West Pakistan as Professor and Advisor of Soil Sciences in a WSU/AID Exchange Program. Dr. Harston retired as Extension Soils and Water Conservationist with Washington State University in 1977.
The Executive Budget for Washington State University comprises both a capital budget for new construction and similar projects, and an operating budget for existing and new research and educational programs. WSU's Executive Budget Committee consisted of higher level members of the Budget Office, the Provost's Office, and similar positions, and was responsible for proposing the Executive Budget for submission to the governor and legislature, and for adjusting these plans based on funding the legislature was willing to give the university. Circa the year 2000, the Executive Budget Committee transitioned into a Budget Council. The same process appears to exist as of 2016, though the term "executive budget" is no longer used; it's simply the "biennial operating and capital budget." A formal Budget Council no longer exists; it is unclear when it was discontinued.
Washington State University's Affirmative Action Office was established sometime before the Fall of 1972 to ensure the fair and equal hiring of minorities on campus as well as dealing with student and faculty complaints related to inappropriate comments and hate speech. In the fall of 1974, the Affirmative Action Office came under fire from several minority groups on campus for failing to respond to the needs of the diverse WSU student body. Some time between 1974 and 1993, the Affirmative Action Office was restructured as the Center for Human Rights. The Affirmative Action Office is currently known as the Compliance and Civil Rights Program and is charged with overseeing Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action Programs.
Earl Edward Wegner was dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine at Washington State University.
Bill Walter was born on November 4, 1915 in Pullman, WA. He lived in a number of locations in Washington State, graduating from Ballard High School in Seattle. He attended the State College of Washington shortly before World War II, where he met and married Mary Sands. Mr. Walter joined the National Guard in 1940, and was assigned to one of the first units to be nationalized.
In the National Guard, he served in the medical core, rising to the rank of Colonel by the time the war ended. After the war, he located his family in Colfax, Washington and started a sporting goods and photography business. As the years went by, he shifted more and more toward photography. On several occasions, he attended photography school in Winona, Indiana.
Mr. Walter advertised himself as the "Photography on the Palouse". Many of his photographs appeared in the local newspaper, the Colfax Gazette, and at one time a large display of his work was exhibited in Colfax City Hall. Mr. Walter retired in 1979 but continued his photography until the early 1990's. He passed away on November 15, 1999.
From the guide to the Save Our Summers Records, 1975-2004 (Collection number: Cage 749):
Save Our Summers (SOS), a nonprofit environmental advocacy group, was organized in 1995 to raise public awareness about the environmental and health hazards of the agricultural practice of grass burning, and to strengthen regulations to protect public health and air quality. SOS was originally formed in response to practices in Spokane County, WA, and subsequently expanded its area of concern to include wheat stubble burning in the Palouse region.
Patricia Hoffman, a retired veterinarian, founded this nonprofit volunteer organization in Spokane. SOS recruited volunteers through membership drives, advertisements in local newspapers, and public meetings. Many members and their families had personally experienced health problems linked to smoke and emissions from agricultural burning. SOS challenged government agencies and farmers to more effectively regulate, reduce, and halt the practice. SOS pursued these goals by holding meetings, writing letters, lobbying government officials, circulating petitions, distributing educational literature, and initiating legal action.
At about the same time, the Clean Air Coalition (CAC) organized separately in Sandpoint, ID, to address similar agricultural burning on the Rathdrum prairie. The two groups made attempts to work together, but because most of the local organizing happened at neighborhood meetings, the geographical separation was problematic. Another group, Safe Air For Everyone (SAFE), was organized in 2001 following some of the worst burns on the Rathdrum prairie. SOS and SAFE worked cooperatively, using the court system in their efforts to end agricultural burning in the region.
SOS filed lawsuits challenging government actions and public policies in Washington and Idaho. In 1999, the group initiated three lawsuits against Washington State Department of Ecology (DOE), and in 2000 filed suit against two State of Idaho departments, Agriculture and Environmental Quality.
SOS filed its first case in Thurston County (WA) Superior Court, the jurisdiction in which the Washington DOE headquarters is located, on March 19, 1999. SOS claimed that DOE had violated the state Clean Air Act by making a voluntary agreement in the form of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Washington Association of Wheat Growers (WAWG) to reduce pollution from field burning. SOS also alleged that the agency violated state rulemaking requirements and failed to fully consider the human and environmental health consequences of this agreement. Judge Richard Hicks observed that he failed to see how an agreement that moved growers in the direction of less burning was harmful. The courts also ruled that since the MOU between DOE and WAWG was a voluntary agreement, failure to reach the goals stated in the MOU were not punishable offenses.
The second suit was filed in Thurston County Superior Court on August 11, 1999. SOS alleged that DOE was in violation of the state Open Records Act for failing to disclose key documents relevant to reduction of agricultural burning. Specifically at issue was a report by the WAWG about their public relations plan to garner support for their deal with DOE. DOE was cleared of wrongdoing, but the judge ruled that SOS was correct in filing the suit and ordered DOE to pay SOS's court costs and legal fees. The judge also directed SOS and DOE to reach an agreement on any additional documents requested by SOS.
The third suit, initiated by SOS with families from Whitman County, WA and Kootenai County, ID, was filed in U.S. District Court in October 1999. They sought an immediate halt to field burning. SOS argued that DOE was in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). They argued that by failing to regulate the smoke generated by wheat-stubble burning, DOE was preventing access to public resources by people suffering from respiratory diseases severely aggravated by the smoke. A final ruling was delayed several times as the judge waited to hear from the U. S. Department of Justice over the question of jurisdiction in the case. Ultimately, SOS and all other parties in the suit agreed to resolution through a mediation process.
Architect Kenneth W. Brooks was born in Cedarvale, Kansas in 1917. He received his undergraduate degree in Architectural Engineering in 1941 and a master's degree in Architecture in 1948, both from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He served in the Caribbean with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (1941-1943) and the U.S. Marine Corps (1944-1946).
In 1948 Brooks traveled to Europe on a University of Illinois Francis Plym Fellowship, spending most of his seven-month trip in Sweden working with Sven Markelius, a Swedish city planner and architect.
He moved to Spokane in 1948 and established his architectural practice there in 1951 (Kenneth Brooks, Architect; later Brooks, Hensley, Creager). He became an award-winning urban designer and city planner; one of his most ambitious and noteworthy projects was "A Place in the Sun," an urban design plan for downtown Spokane. He participated very actively in the planning process for Expo '74, the World's Fair held in Spokane in 1974. He designed several major commercial buildings, including the headquarters for Washington Water Power in Spokane, the Rogers-Orton Dining Hall at Washington State University, the Intermountain Gas Company Central Service Facility in Boise, and the art-music-drama complex at Columbia Basin Community College in Pasco, Washington.
Brooks was very active in his profession, frequently presenting papers to local, regional, and national groups on topics in architecture, urban design, transportation planning, and environmental policy.
Source: Kenneth W. Brooks Papers, 1936-1992 (Cage 685) Manuscripts, Archives, and Special Collections Washington State University Libraries
In September, 1889, Washington State farmers organized the Washington State Grange. They saw the Grange as a means of fraternal cooperation in the promotion of agricultural interests, and as a method of providing education and recreation for their families. The Grange was also a vehicle for increasing the public's awareness of farmers' issues and for winning legislation to ease farmers' problems associated with the high cost of goods and services, and the low prices received for commodities. The Grange in later years became one of the principal general farmers' organizations, and as such has since functioned as a public and legislative spokesman for agricultural interests. The Grange also takes public positions of advocacy or opposition on a variety of issues such as general economic policy, transportation, and public works projects.
The office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development. It is responsible for major construction projects on WSU campus.
The Southwestern Washington Research Unit, located in Vancouver, Washington, is an agricultural experiment station which operates under the auspices of Washington State University's College of Agriculture. The Research Unit is situated on the site of the former Clark County Poor Farm in northern Vancouver. Experimentation and research were begun in October, 1943; but it was not until early 1949 that the University gained control of the full 80 acres.
The station conducts research in commercial vegetables and fruit crops, insect and disease control, fertilizer development, irrigation, animal science, soils, seeds, and a variety of horticultural areas. Clark County is located at the northern end of the Willamette Valley, and it is roughly half urban and half rural. Vancouver, the county seat, is a fruit and vegetable processing center.
The Research Division of the College of Engineering was originally the Division of Industrial Research (DIR), established at Washington State University in 1946. The DIR conducted studies and research leading toward the economical use of material resources in the Northwest and the broad, well-balanced development of the state. The DIR was reorganized in 1966 under the College of Engineering. Dr. E. W. Greenfield was the director of the Research Division from 1966 until 1972 when Dr. George Marra took over as head, until his retirement in 1980.
William Kruegel (1879-1951) graduated from Washington State College in 1902 with a degree in Modern Languages and went on to serve as the Bursar of the College. Kruegel Hall at Washington State University is named in his honor.
Dr. Armand Mauss is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Religious Studies at Washington State University (WSU). Dr. Mauss received his Bachelor of Arts in 1954 from Sophia University in Tokyo, Japan, and both his Master of Arts in 1957 and his Ph.D. in 1970 from the University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Mauss taught at Utah State University before joining the faculty at WSU in 1969. Dr. Mauss' earlier research focused on deviant behaviors, such as drug and alcohol abuse, but the primary focus of his classes and publications pertain to new religious movements, especially studies of Mormonism. Dr. Mauss' publications include: Social Problems as Social Movements (1975), Neither White nor Black: Mormon Scholars Encounter the Race Issue in a Universal Church (1984), The Angel and the Beehive: The Mormon Struggle with Assimilation (1994), and All Abraham’s Children: Changing Mormon Conceptions of Race and Lineage (2003). Dr. Mauss retired from WSU in 1999. While a Professor Emeritus, Dr. Mauss served as a visiting scholar for the School of Religion at Claremont Graduate University from 2004 to 2009.
Dorys Crow Grover was born in Pendleton, OR, in 1921. She earned a bachelor's degree from Oregon State University (1951), and later pursued graduate study at Washington State University, earning her Ph.D. in 1969. According to the Western Literature Association, Dr. Grover helped develop the field of western American literary studies, making notable contributions to scholarship on Vardis Fisher and others. After completing her doctoral degree, she had a long career as a professor of English at East Texas State University.
Veterinary science has been a part of the curriculum of Washington State University from the institution's beginning in 1890. Within seven years, veterinary science expanded from one course to become a major division: the School of Veterinary Science. Upon completion of a three year program, the first class of Doctors of Veterinary Medicine were graduated in 1902. The school was designated the College of Veterinary Science in 1916, and the program of study was extended to four years. In 1925 the title was altered to the College of Veterinary Medicine. Reorganization in 1945 made the Veterinary College a subdivision of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences, however during the 1960's the College regained its autonomy. Presently the College of Veterinary Medicine is comprised of the departments of (1) Anatomy, Pharmacology/ Toxicology, and Physiology, (2) Clinical Medicine and Surgery, and (3) Microbiology and Pathology as well as five special programs.
Classes in veterinary medicine have been taught at Washington State University since the institution's beginning. In 1899 the veterinary program was organized into the School of Veterinary Science, and the granting of professional degrees for a three-year program in veterinary medicine was introduced. The first graduating class, consisting of two individuals, received their degrees in 1902. In 1906 the degree program expanded from three to four years of study.
Beginning in 1908 senior veterinary students were taught at a clinic in Spokane, where they could receive more practical experience, while all other students were taught in Pullman. This arrangement continued until 1923 when all teaching facilities and staff were brought to Pullman. In 1917, as a result of President E. O. Holland's reorganization of the institution, the School of Veterinary Science became the College of Veterinary Science. The name was altered to the College of Veterinary Medicine in 1925. In the 1930's the degree program was expanded to five years of study. Reorganization in 1944 made the College of Veterinary Medicine a subdivision of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences until, due to pressure from local and national veterinary organizations, the College regained its autonomy in 1950.
In 1979, in partnership with the University of Idaho, Montana State University and Utah State University, the Washington-Oregon-Idaho Regional Program in Veterinary Medical Education is formed, allowing students from various western states access to a veterinary medical education, without paying out-of-state tuition.
The School completed a new 110,000 square foot Veterinary Teaching Hospital in 1996. And in 2012 the Paul G. Allen School for Global Animal Health was created, committed to developing innovative strategies for the treatment and control of diseases that directly affect public health, economic development, and human opportunity.
A more extensive history of the College of Veterinary Medicine can be found in: Harriman, Peter, Pettit, Ghery D, Washington State University. College of Veterinary Medicine. "First Century: a Centennial History." Pullman: Washington State University; 1998.
The Washington State University Faculty Executive Committee (FEC), under the name Executive Committee of the Faculty of the State College of Washington, was first organized in January 1934. From this beginning two long-standing concerns of the committee were evident: academic tenure and faculty salaries. Other matters of concern to the faculty were also quickly brought before the committee.
Because of what were termed "practical difficulties" encountered by the committee, it nearly ceased operations during 1936 and 1937. In late 1937 the committee proposed its own dissolution and the establishment of a Faculty Advisory Committee. By vote of the faculty this was done and the Faculty Advisory Committee was established in October, 1937. The change in name was meant to be a change in function.
In 1945, as a result of the reorganizations proposed by the Committee of Forty, the Faculty Executive Committee was re-established and took over the functions of the Faculty Advisory Committee. Recent accounts of the history of the committee refer to the 1945 body as the "first" establishment of the committee. In each case the records of the preceding body were transferred to its successor.
In the fall of 1971, with the establishment of the University Senate and the subsequent reorganization of the committee structure, the FEC was again dissolved. Its functions were divided between the Faculty Affairs Committee of the University Senate (which did not begin operations until the following spring) and the faculty-elected Faculty Status Committee. This split assigned personnel arbitration, a major function of the FEC, to the Faculty Status Committee. Other matters, formerly the responsibility of the FEC, were turned over to the Senate's Faculty Affairs Committee. These included policy recommendations on appointments, promotion, tenure, leave of absence, standards of performance, professional ethics, faculty rights and responsibilities, academic freedom and faculty compensation. All of these were given on-going consideration as revisions were proposed to the Faculty Manual. Between the demise of the FEC and the establishment of the Faculty Affairs Committee these matters were also handled by the Faculty Status Committee.
Leo K. Bustad was born in 1920 in Stanwood, Washington. He received his B.A. in Agriculture from Washington State College (now Washington State University) in 1941. Within a year of graduation, he married Signe Byrd, a Washington State College graduate in Home Economics Education, and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Army, serving in Italy and Germany during World War II. He returned to Pullman in 1945, after being a prisoner of war in a German prison camp for fifteen months. Dr. Bustad went on to receive his M.A. in Animal Nutrition in 1948 and his D.V.M. in 1949 from Washington State College, as well as a Ph.D. in Physiology in 1960 from the University of Washington. From 1949 to 1965, he also directed biological research at Hanford Laboratories in Benton County, Washington. He then went on to become the Director of the Radiobiology Laboratory and Comparative Oncology Laboratory at the University of California, Davis, before returning to WSU as the Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine (1973-1983).
Dr. Bustad's research initially focused on the physiological effects of radiation exposure, but he is most widely known for spearheading the study of human-animal interaction and the human-animal bond. Among his many accomplishments and contributions to veterinary medicine, he co-founded and was the first Chair of The Delta Society (Pet Partners), also serving as its first president from 1981 to 1988. As of 2015, the society continues to present the Bustad Companion Animal Veterinarian Award to a veterinarian working in the field of human-animal interactions. Dr. Bustad founded the People-Pet Program at Washington State University, and helped establish the journal Anthrozoos (1987) on human-animal interaction studies, as well as the International Association of Human-Animal Interaction Organizations (1990). In addition to his two books (Animals, Aging, and the Aged and Compassion: Our Last Great Hope), Dr. Bustad co-authored Learning and Living Together: Building the Human-Animal Bond, and contributed to over 200 academic articles during his career.
The WSU Veterinary Science Building was renamed Bustad Hall in 1985 in honor of Dr. Bustad's service as Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine. He remained an active member of the Pullman community until his death in 1998.
Many terms historically used to describe individuals and communities with disabilities are offensive and were used to dismiss, discount and dehumanize these individuals and communities. Terms often focused on a perceived impairment and not the person. MASC recognizes the harm caused by these terms. We retain the language in this finding aid to document history and preserve context.
Mart A. Howard (1855-1926) was a businessman at Webster, Massachusetts in 1897 when news of the Klondike gold strikes reached the United States. He left from home in October of that year, taking a train to Portland, then on to Seattle where he outfitted for a trip to Alaska. Leaving Seattle in January 1898, he traveled north via coastal steamer to Dyea, then across Chilkoot Pass and along inland waterways to his eventual destination at Dawson, Yukon Territory. In the fall of the same year, he returned to Seattle and purchased a shipment of supplies, which he retailed in the Klondike the following spring. Using the profits of this mercantile venture, he became a mine operator, purchasing interests in various mines on the creeks north of Dawson. He returned briefly to Massachusetts in 1900 after which he took his third trip to the Klondike, this time accompanied by his wife and son. Howard remained in Dawson until 1905, after which he returned to Massachusetts permanently. In later years he became a public lecturer on the Klondike gold rush.
The Washington State University Centennial Oral History Project (COHP) was formally established with a $5,000 grant from the WSU Foundation in 1983. From this beginning, COHP coordinator Linda Lilles initiated a network of volunteer interviewers and interviewees from the various facets of the University community, including alumni, retirees, faculty, staff, and administration of long standing. Since the initial grant, the Office of Centennial Planning and the History Department have funded the COHP, with the bulk of the program under the leadership of Keith Williams. Coordinator from August, 1983 to November, 1987, Williams built up the collection to include 150 interviews with as many as 80 volunteers.
Betty Jean Whiteman (1918-1985) spent her childhood in the Milton-Freewater, Walla Walla, and La Crosse areas, and the attended Washington State College from 1935 to 1939, graduating with a B.A. in Fine Arts. While at WSC, she studied under Clyfford Still. She received her M.A. from Columbia University, and worked in the New York City area during World War II; after marrying Louis Feves to become Betty Feves she returned to the northwest and spent the remainder of her life in Pendleton, OR. She had a career as a noted artist, primarily working in clay.
Intercollegiate football at Washington State University began with a November, 1894 game at the University of Idaho, and it has been played each season since (excepting the years 1943-1944, when it was canceled due to World War II).
The Common Ministry at Washington State University, an ecumenical Protestant ministry, was established in 1965. It followed a long history at WSU of ministry by individual denominations and other organizations, sometimes working independently, and sometimes in partnership. The Common Ministry operated the Koinonia House (K-House), later called the Interfaith House, which housed campus religious groups and unofficial student organizations.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
Lewis Levien Thompson was born on January 13, 1909 in Fulham, England. He spent his childhood in north London with two younger sisters. He received a good conventional education in private schools, and though he did not excel in academic areas, he was a good singer and accomplished pianist. His happiest memories of childhood were the times the family spent on long summer holidays in West Molesey, Surrey at The Priory, their quiet summer home. In early adolescence, Lewis became friends with a Buddhist and began to read the scriptures of the East. This new interest began to distance him from his family so much so that in his teens he lived on his own in London with a small legacy from a relative. He did not go to the university but educated himself in the classics, including the translations of Chinese, Japanese, and Indian classics. He also read extensively in anthropology and psychoanalysis. In his adolescence, Lewis underwent the first severe crisis of his life, the turning point on which his whole future life revolved. He discovered Rimbaud at the age of 21, and finally he, like Rimbaud, rejected literature. He realized the truth in Rimbaud's remarks of a wish to possess the truth in one soul and body and the impossiblity of this wish. Rimbaud saw the only solution for the poet of integrity was to abandon all attempts as a poet. Thompson too experienced the anguish of a young artist who is certain that "the truth cannot be told" and that in his writing he wrote only half of the truth which is an untruth. On recognizing this, Thompson destroyed the manuscript he had worked on for five years. In the future, he would write only as a form of spiritual exercise.
Thompson believed that in the West all was distorted and fragmentary, while in the East he could find what was clear, classical, and complete. He wished to travel to the East and was given money for the fare to Ceylon by Sir Arnold Wilson, a Persian explorer, who took pity on Thompson. He departed from England on July 26, 1932 and lived in India for the remaining seventeen years of his life. While in India, he wandered the country living off of what others would give him in the form of food and lodging. During this time, he carried all his possessions with him in one trunk, including all his papers. (This explains why some of the paper is in such a deteriorated state.) Thompson was not interested in finding a guru in the beginning, but in 1936 he developed a relationship of affection, intensity, and frankness with a man Thompson called Jnani, or Man of Knowledge. Their relationship ended in 1943 when Jnani withdrew from the unconventional and untraditional relationship which he and Thompson had established. In 1943, Thompson found employment in the Rajghat School in Benares as the writer-in-residence and librarian. He remained there for four years. When the job at Rajghat ended, Thompson drew a small stipend from G. D. Birla, the industrialist and a friend of Gandhi.
In his last years, Thompson wrestled with declining health, a problem he had throughout his adult life. His end came when he returned to Benares in the lethal heat. He was found wandering by the river in a daze with the effects of sunstroke. He went to bed with a high fever and died alone in his room on June 23, 1949. He was cremated and his ashes spread over the Ganges River. After his death, Thompson's poetry was sent to Edith Sitwell by Deben Bhattacharya. Sitwell saw the poetry as the work of a genius and published some of it in an anthology she compiled.
[Biography taken in part from Mirror to the Light by Richard Lannoy.]
Lantern slides were used for instructional and promotional purposes at WSU early in the century.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
The office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development in 1993, and then as Capital Planning in 2001. The office of Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question.
In 1926 scientists working mainly for western agricultural experiment stations organized an association for the purpose of studying oil spray insecticides. The group's objective was to discover new and better ways of protecting fruit crops from disease and insects without exposing humans to hazardous chemicals such as lead-arsenic compounds, DDT and Parathion. Initially, government and business expressed only a cursory interest in the oil spray project. As the quality of the research teams' work became apparent, interest in organizing a public/private cooperative intensified.
In 1935, agricultural experiment station scientists from Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana, representatives from the agro-chemical industry, and officials from the American and Canadian agriculture departments formed the Western Cooperative Spray Project. The organization's objectives included: the rapid advancement of knowledge concerning the control of fruit insects and fruit diseases; the promotion of consistent test results from region-to-region through the use of a successful standardized system of experimentation; the broadening of knowledge among those engaged in the fruit industry through annual reports of findings, and the establishment of mutual confidence.
As a part of its research work, each cooperating unit included a spray project, provided it with sufficient operational funds, and assigned a chemist, an entomologist, and a plant physiologist or plant pathologist to the project. The cooperative decided on which materials, methods, insects, and plant diseases should be utilized and studied. At the beginning of each year, the project members gathered for a conference at which papers were read, findings were discussed, and proposals for future research made.
The project's members conducted many experiments on a variety of crop-damaging insects and diseases. The project also explored the effects of some insecticides and fungicides on humans.
By 1946, the project's scope was expanded. New member states were added, as were additional representatives from government and business. Research topics became more complex, and the papers presented at the conferences won wide acclaim. The Western Cooperative Spray Conference continued to operate through the early 1950s.
Charles Frederick Yocom (1914-1985) was an Assistant Professor of Wildlife Biology at Washington State College in the early 1950s. The 600 photographs in this collection represent Yocom’s work on nesting sites of Canada geese on the Snake River and Columbia Basin region between the years 1942-1953.
Tree Top, Inc. is a fruit processing cooperative headquartered in Selah, Washington. Bill Charbonneau founded the enterprise in 1944 as a private company, shortly after he and his family moved to Washington from Southern California. He purchased a small apple processing plant, first operating under its existing name, Pomona Products, then changing the name to Charbonneau Packing Corporation in 1946. He introduced the Tree Top apple juice brand in 1947. In 1960, a small local group of farmers joined together and created a grower cooperative, buying out Charbonneau's company and the Tree Top name. Since then, Tree Top, Inc. has operated continuously as a cooperative.
The Washington State University Libraries date to the founding of the Washington Agricultural College and School of Science, when the library was just a shelf in the President’s office in the first campus building. It quickly grew and became a room in the original College Hall, then half a floor in the Administration Building (Thompson Hall), then half of Bryan Hall, then the full Holland Library, and then the Owen Science and Engineering Library as well. Over time a number of departmental libraries acted as branches of the system, some officially and some unofficially. The Library Student Orientation Committee was a subcommittee of the University Library Committee and was established around the Fall of 1966. It arose out of needs identified by the Management Review and Analysis Program (MRAP) that evaluated library functions in 1974. The Library Student Orientation Committee oversaw the development of orientation material for both new students and faculty.
The Hirzel Music Company was started in 1931 by Ellwood and Mary Hirzel, who operated it for over 60 years. Their store in Lewiston, Idaho was known for its inventories of music, instruments, toys, and hobby items. Ellwood Hirzel had his own orchestra, Hirzel’s Hoot Owls, which played the Palouse as well as on a 1931 American Presidents Lines ship that visited many ports in countries throughout Asia.
Washington State University student and army officer.
McCroskey Hall was built in 1920 and named after long-time Regent R. C. McCroskey. It has consistently been used as a women's dormitory except during World War II and the early 1950's when it was used for male housing. The house government consists of elected officers who form an executive council. Kroskey Club was formed in 1931 as an organization of selected upperclassmen to support the council and plan special activities. It was disbanded in 1937.
Leila Hunt was a home economist and educator at Washington State University.
Originally called the Office of International Programs established in 1963 to coordinate and oversee the International Study Abroad programs. This program was reorganized in 1971 resulting in an apparent name change although the tasks of the office remained the same, coordinating programs with foreign student sponsoring agencies and universities. This program also appears to have encompassed NICSA (Northwest Interinstitutional Council on Study Abroad). The program underwent another reorganizing in the late 1980's resulting in the offices present day organization.
George William Thallheimer was born in Sumas, WA, in 1905. He grew up near the border town of Oroville, WA, and went on the manage a coal mine in Princeton, British Columbia, Canada. In 1939, he married Clara Leyland. Clara was born in Fernie, British Columbia, Canada, in 1911, moved to the United States in 1944, and became a naturalized citizen of the U.S. in 1953. George and Clara took up residence in Nespelem, WA, where they were the owners and operators of multiple home businesses, including a market garden as well as a welding, irrigation, and electrical company. Clara passed away in 1994, followed by George four years later. Both were buried in the Nespelem cemetery.
Edward [Egbert] Roscoe Murrow was born on April 25, 1908, near Greensboro, North Carolina. He was the youngest of three boys born to Roscoe and Ethel Murrow. The family moved to Blanchard, Washington when Murrow was five. Subsequently, Murrow attended Washington State College in Pullman, Washington, graduating in 1930. He was president of the National Student Federation from 1929 to 1932 and assistant director of the Institute of International Education from 1932 to 1935. In 1934 he married Janet Brewster. Their son, Charles Casey, was born November 6, 1945, in West London.
Murrow was hired by CBS in 1935 and worked for them until 1961. During those years he worked as war correspondent in London, 1939 to 1945, vice president, director of public affairs, 1945 to 1947, and news analyst and host for the television programs Person to Person, See It Now, and Small World during the 1950s. He was on the CBS board of directors from 1949 to 1955. In 1961, Edward R. Murrow was appointed director of the United States Information Agency (USIA), serving until 1964. He died on April 27, 1965.
The Tree Fruit Research Center was officially established in 1938 by an act of the State Legislature, but the initiatory step occurred in 1926 when the fruit growers of the Wenatchee district sent a committee to WSC to make a plea that the State College Agriculture Experiment Station carry on more effective experiments in the Wenatchee area. Fred Overley was the first superintendent and came to be regarded as the father of the center. Other records of the Tree Fruit Experiment Station are found in University Archives 190.
Roderick Donald McRae was a physician, Colville Indian Agency, 1913-1931.
C. C. Van Arsdol (1851-1941) began his career in civil engineering when he attended a civil engineering course at Iowa State University in 1876. Shortly after, Van Arsdol became chief draughtsman for the Union Pacific Railway in 1880. He was later given the duties associated with the reconnaissance and preliminary location in the district around Lewiston, Idaho, the Snake River, and the Salmon River. In 1903, Van Arsdol worked for the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway, where he controlled all the work from Saskatoon west to the Pacific Ocean until World War I began in 1914. Following the war, he returned to Lewiston, Idaho and worked as a consulting engineer.
In 1936 Tatsuya Tsuruyama arrived in Los Angeles, California. He returned to Japan in 1940 to marry Miyo Karubi. Later that year, the couple moved to San Jose, California, where their first son, Shigenobu, was born on July 3, 1941. On May 29, 1942, the Tsuruyamas were sent to Santa Anita, California as part of the incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II. On September 1, 1942, they were sent to Heart Mountain Relocation Center in Wyoming, where they spent the initial part of their incarceration before being sent to Tule Lake in 1944. On October 22, their first daughter, Ruri was born. On May 17, 1944, the Tsuruyamas were transferred to Tule Lake Relocation Center in Northern California. On November 20, 1944, their second daughter, Mari was born. By August 15, 1945, the family left Tule Lake and travelled to Santa Fe, New Mexico before moving to Portland, Oregon. By January 13, 1946, the family moved again to Uraga, Japan.
Executive Order 9066:
In 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, which resulted in the incarceration from 1942 to 1946 of approximately 120,000 adults and children of Japanese ancestry, many of whom were United States citizens. They were expelled from their homes and placed in incarceration camps without due process and in violation of their civil rights. These camps were euphemistically referred to as “relocation centers” or “internment camps”. After decades of advocacy by the Japanese American community, in 1988 the United States issued a formal apology and began redress to survivors of Japanese incarceration during World War II.
Agriculture has always been part of the Washington State University's (previously the State College of Washington) curriculum; in the earliest days, all of its disciplines were taught in one department (the Department of Agriculture). By 1918 these agricultural disciplines including farm crops, soils, etc., had expanded enough to warrant the formation of separate departments. The Department of Farm Crops and Soils were consolidated into a Department Of Agronomy in February 1928. This name was changed in November 1969 to the Department of Agronomy and Soils and then to the Department of Crop and Soil Sciences in 1991.
Three instructional horticulture greenhouses were built on Wilson Road in 1951, between what would become Ensminger Pavilion and the future site of Lighty Hall. The greenhouses were torn down in 2007, and the two-thirds acre site was designated as a Display Garden at the behest of University President V. Lane Rawlins and under the guidance of landscape architecture professor Phil Waite. Design and building of the garden began in 2008 and continued thereafter through class projects in various landscape architecture courses.
The Office of Community Engagement and Service Learning builds partnerships between the community and WSU students and faculty to support service-learning, student development as active and educated citizens, and community advancement.
A library was begun by the Washington Agricultural College concurrent with the opening of the college in 1892. In 1909, the Library acquired its own building, or rather wing of a building, and with it an identity as a major division within the college.
Frank Kottke (1913-2002) was a Professor of Economics at Washington State University (WSU) from 1961-1979. Kottke, who was born in Chicago, Illinois, earned his PhD from Columbia University in 1940, was drafted by the Army in 1943, taught at the University of North Carolina from 1946-1951 and worked for the Federal Trade Commission as an expert in competition and monopolies. After joining WSU's faculty in 1961, Kottke taught courses in industrial organization.
In 1938, Dr. Kottke met Dr. Esther Hendee (1903-1974) and the two began a relationship. Like Kottke, Dr. Hendee was highly educated. She earned a PhD in biology from University of California, Berkeley and was working at Russell Sage College, an all-women’s school in Troy, New York. The two married in the fall of 1939 and had their first child, Margaret, in April of 1943. They remained married until Esther’s death in 1974.
Kottke retired from WSU in 1979 and served on the Citizen's Advisory Committee for Pullman Public Transit in the 1980s and 1990s. Kottke moved to Spokane in 1994, where he passed away in 2002.
The Friends of the Museum of Art at Washington State University was formed to advance educational and public support for the museum. The organization was designed to work in conjunction with the museum to obtain funding and donations of works of art from sources outside the University.
Axel Leonard Melander was an entomologist at Washington State University.
The Honorable Stephen James Napier Tennant (1906-1987) was an English artist and author. He was part of a London social circle popularly known in the 1920s as the Bright Young Things or Bright Young People, and he had many friends and acquaintances in the Bloomsbury set as well.
Landscape painter.
The WSU College of Pharmacy was founded in 1891, only one year after the founding of Washington State College. Programming in pharmacy was discontinued from 1892 through 1896, but has been continuously offered since. For further information, please see the written history of the College of Pharmacy in the collection’s final folder.
Professor Allen I. White served on the pharmacy faculty for 39 years (1940-1979), and served as the Dean of the college from 1960 until his 1979 1979 retirement. He passed away in December, 2002.
Washington State University as an institution dates to 1890, when it was authorized by the newly-formed State of Washington. WSU's history is documented in numerous pieces of film and video, the oldest known being film footage of the Jan. 1 1916 "Rose Bowl" football game played in Pasadena, California.
View-Masters date to 1939, created initially by Sawyer's Photo Services (later purchased by GAF Corporation). A View-Master is basically a stereoscopic viewer designed to view seven pairs of film images, rather than pairs of printed photographs that a traditional stereoscopic viewer would view. During the 1940s and 1950s they became very popular; the most common subject of View-Master reels tended to be scenic views of tourist destinations.
Solomon Pimsleur was born in Paris, France, in 1900 and emigrated to the United States with his parents at an early age. Completing both his undergraduate and graduate studies at Columbia University he was the recipient of a Julliard Fellowship in 1926 and studied at the Summer Institute of the Mozarteum, Salzburg, Austria, in 1929. An honorary D. Mus. was awarded to him by the Boguslawski College of Music in Chicago in 1940. He died in New York City in 1962. With over 120 compositions to his credit, Pimsleur can be considered a prolific composer. His work aroused some early attention, but he gained little recognition later in his life. Nor did he ever succeed in securing an academic position. A performance of his Symphonic Ballade by the Philharmonic Society of New York at Lewisohn Stadium in 1933 marked the sole performance of any of his works by an established professional ensemble. Subsequent performances of his compositions were in large part due to his own persistent efforts. While his compositions drew praise for the craftsmanship they exhibited, Pimsleur's self-declared conservative style put his music outside the mainstream of contemporary development. A posthumous concert of his music was arranged by his wife Meira in 1965 and was presented in Carnegie Recital Hall, New York City.
Murray David Henry was a Pullman pioneer and businessman. He was born on May 26, 1865 in Clarion County, Pennsylvania, to David Steward Henry (d. 1911) and Rebecca Cline Henry (d. 1912). Murray Henry was one of five children. His siblings included Mrs. J. T. (Mary) Chilton, Whittier, California; George N. Henry (1853-1926), Pullman; John T. (1862-1926), Pullman and Spokane; W. D. Henry, Chambers; and Mrs. Alice Hardy, Palouse. In the late 1860s the family began moving west for Oregon. Due to misfortune they only traveled as far as Missouri. In the spring of 1879 the Henrys left Missouri by wagon and finally headed west. After six months on the trail, they arrived in the Palouse country. Instead of continuing on to Oregon, they stayed in Washington Territory and farmed land on Union Flat near Pullman.
Murray Henry was a businessman in Whitman County, Wash., for all his adult life. In 1881, at the age of sixteen, he began operating a freight wagon between Almota and Colfax. By the late 1880s, he farmed a section of land on what later became Pullman's Military Hill. He also farmed what was known as the Drinkwater place north of the town.
In 1889, Henry constructed his first of several business buildings in Pullman. It was destroyed in the fire of 1890. He then constructed the first brick block built after the fire. He was also associated with his brother, John T., in the contracting business. Henry served on Pullman's first volunteer fire department. He also was a member of the city council for nineteen years. Henry retired from business shortly after the First World War, but he remained a long-term investor in Pullman real estate, both business and residential property.
Murray D. Henry married Lou S. Clark of Oregon on July 20, 1892. They became parents of five children, Mrs. Mabel Henry Tatham and Arthur Henry of Pullman; Mrs. Laurel Henry Goff of Walnut Creek, California; Ernest Henry of Opportunity, Washington; and Harold Henry of Salem, Oregon. Lou S. Henry passed away on October 17, 1926. In 1933, Murray Henry married Edith Cox of Pullman. She died in 1945. Murray D. Henry died on August 28, 1948, in Pullman after suffering a stroke.
Dr. Samuel H. Smith (1940- ) served as the eighth President of Washington State University, from 1985 to 2000. Smith earned a Bachelor's degree in 1961 and a Ph.D. in 1964 from the University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Smith received a NATO postdoctoral fellowship at the Glasshouse Crops Research Institute in England in 1964, and was awarded honorary doctoral degrees from Nihon University in Tokyo, Japan, and Far Eastern State University in Vladivostok, Russia. Before coming to WSU, Dr. Smith served as a faculty member at the University of California, Berkeley, and as the dean of the College of Agriculture at Pennsylvania State University. As President of WSU, Dr. Smith's administration established regional WSU campuses in Spokane, the Tri-Cities, and Vancouver, as well as the Distance Degree Programs. In 2001, the Smith Center for Undergraduate Education (CUE) was named after Dr. Smith.
Louis Mathis Ringer was a wheat buying agent at Almota, Washington, for Sibson, Quackenbush and Company, located in Portland, Oregon. He was also an owner, with his brother, John T. Ringer, of the Pullman Mercantile Company, 1890-1893.
The Pullman Fortnightly Club was organized in 1893 by Mrs. Harriet E. Bryan as a women's literary society and has functioned continuously afterward. Since its inception it has conducted bi-monthly meetings from September to April at which members present their analyses of classical and contemporary works of poetry, drama, and fiction. In addition, the Fortnightly Club holds breakfast meetings and annual anniversary dinners.
1876 Born, Creston, Illinois
1906 LLB. University of Wisconsin
1908 Lawyer, Eau Clair, Wisconsin
Married Helen Jensen, deceased 1936
1911 Teacher, Principal, Superintendent, public schools of Benton County, Washington
1923 Farmer, Lecturer of the Grange
1927 Representative, Washington State Legislature
1933 Elected as a Democrat to the Seventy-third and the four succeeding Congresses (March 4, 1933-January 3, 1943)
Member of the House committees on Executive Departments Expenditures, Indian Affairs, Irrigation and Reclamation, and Public Lands.
1943 Superintendent of the Uintah-Ouray Indian Agency, Fort Duchesne, Utah
1944 Farm Reporter and Commentator, KHQ-KGA, Spokane, Washington
1946 Director of Information and Consulting Appraiser, Columbia River Project, Ephrata, Washington
1951 Retired
1963 Died
The WSU Office of Equity and Diversity (now known as the Office of Outreach and Education) is an office dedicated to recognizing diversity and inclusion on Campus. In 2007, former university president Elson S. Floyd merged the Office of Equity and Diversity with the Office of Student Affairs. As an office, their goals are to provide education, resources, and partnerships, among other things to teach the WSU community about diversity and inclusion successfully.
Professor H. Paul Castleberry was born on June 8, 1921, in Duncan, Oklahoma. He graduated with honors from Texas Tech University in 1941 and received his Masters of Arts Degree the following year, also at Texas Tech. In 1949 he was awarded the Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago. In 1945-1946 and 1946-1947 he was a Hillman Fellow. Upon graduation he became an Assistant Professor at Washington State University, in which position he served until 1954. He was an associate professor from 1954 until 1960, and became a full professor in 1960. He served as acting chairman of the Political Science Department in 1957 and from 1961-1962, and as full chairman from 1964 until 1968. Professor Castleberry taught courses in American Government, International Law, International Organization and Administration American Diplomacy, and a seminar in U.S. Foreign Policy in the Middle East. He was Fulbright lecturer at the American University in Cairo in 1953-1954 and from 1954-1955 and Fulbright lecturer at Ankara University in 1962. He is the co-author of American National Government and of American State and Local Government, and the author of numerous articles on the Middle East. Professor Castleberry is a member of the American Political Science Association, the Midwest Political Science Association, and the American Society of Public Administration, Pi Sigma Kappa and also served on the Washington Constitutional Advisory Commission for several years in the 1970's and 1980's he acted as chairman of the Whitman County Democratic Party. In 1983 he retired, but continued active in local and state Democratic politics and campus activities.
Women's physical education at WSU began in 1901-02. Nine years later folk dancing was introduced into the program. Since that time dance has become an increasingly significant part of the women's physical education curriculum.
For further history, see "The History of the Development of the Women's Physical Education Major Program of the State College of Washington, From its Inception in 1919, to 1929," by Maxine Hazel Smith, Pullman, 1951 (Unpublished M.A. thesis).
'The office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development in 1993, and then as Capital Planning in 2001. The office of Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question.
The Pullman Investment Club, founded in 1968, is a group of Pullman (WA) women who collectively invest in publicly-traded securities. They meet regularly to discuss current and potential investments.
Patti Hirahara was born in California in 1955 to Frank and Mary Hirahara. Patti grew up in Anaheim, California and graduated from California State University, Fullerton with a Bachelor of Arts in Communications in 1977. Hirahara runs Productions by Hirahara, a public relations and television production firm. Her career in public relations and marketing includes extensive work with the Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO). Hirahara has also produced works in television and print media. In November 2010, Patti donated to Washington State University the first installment of what was to become the George and Frank C. Hirahara Photograph Collection of Heart Mountain, Wyoming.
'The office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development in 1993, and then as Capital Planning in 2001. The office of Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question.
Charles Glen King (1896-1988) was born in Entiat, Washington, on October 22, 1896. He attended Washington State College (today Washington State University) and received a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry in 1918. King's time at WSC was interrupted by his service in the 12th Infantry Machine Gun Company of the United States Army during World War I. While in Pullman, he was the president of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity, and he married Hilda Bainton in 1919. King went on to pursue graduate studies at the University of Pittsburgh, where he received his M.A. in Chemistry in 1920, and his Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry in 1923. He served as an Instructor at the University of Pittsburgh (1920-1926), a Postdoctoral Associate at Columbia University (1926-1927), and Postdoctoral Associate at Cambridge, England (1929).
As a Professor at the University of Pittsburgh (1927-1942) and Professor at Columbia University (1942-1962), King rose to international prominence for his isolation and crystallization of Vitamin C in 1932, and his other work in the science of nutrition. In addition to producing over 80 publications on subject of Vitamin C, King served as the first director of the Nutrition Foundation in 1942, and helped establish the journal Nutrition Reviews. He helped to found the Plant, Soil, and Nutrition Laboratory at the United States Department of Agriculture, was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1951, received the Order of Rodolfo Robles from the Guatemalan government in 1958, and served as the president of the International Union of Nutrition Sciences, the American Institute of Nutrition, the American Society of Biological Chemists, and the American Public Health Association.
King was the recipient of numerous national and international awards throughout his career, and served as an advisor to the Eisenhower Administration and as a consultant for both the Rockefeller Foundation and United Nations Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF).
Washington State University honored King with the Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1964, and created the Charles Glen King Fellowships in Nutrition and Biochemistry as a tribute to his achievements.
Gustav Bliesner (1910-1994) was an electrical engineer and an expert on rural electrification, sprinkler systems, and hydroelectric dams. He consulted on industrial and military projects, and on electrical systems for the United States space program.
Bliesner was born at Fairfield, Washington; he graduated from Rockford High School and attended Washington State College, where he earned his bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 1933. In the following year he finished his Master of Science degree. In 1939 he received his professional engineering degree, and later became a Ph.D. candidate at Iowa State College. During his career as an engineer he taught at local universities, worked with the Army Corps of Engineers, Boeing, North American Aviation, and the Bonneville Power Administration. Mr. Bliesner was an expert in the field of rural electrification whose long and distinguished career included participation in projects such as the Grand Coulee Dam and the Boeing KC-135.
G. J. Lomen and his son Carl originally came to Nome as part of the 1900 gold rush. G.J. Lomen soon established a profitable law practice. In 1903 Carl's mother, sister Helen, and brothers Ralph, Harry and Alfred moved from Minnesota to Nome. Brother George arrived in Nome in 1906, opening a men's furnishing store in 1907. The family was involved in many commercial and civic interests including law, their reindeer corporation, lighterage, retail, and photography. In 1908 the brothers bought a photographic studio and later bought the negatives of several other photographers including Dobbs, Nowell, Goetze and Kinne. Brothers Carl, Harry, Alfred, and Ralph Lomen were partners in the business. Harry managed the studio and all of them took photographs, quickly learning how to keep cameras in working order at Arctic temperatures. Alfred became particularly interested in photography and took most of the photos. In September 1934, a fire destroyed their studio along with 25,000-30,000 negatives and 50,000 commercial prints. Approximately 3,000 negatives were salvaged. The Lomens never reopened their photography business but they remained in Nome, pursuing their other business enterprises, including the Lomen Reindeer Corporation. By the 1940's they all moved to Seattle, Washington, where George died in 1934, Alfred in 1950, Harry in 1957 and Carl in 1965.
The Department of Speech of Washington State University, established in 1923, has produced numerous plays since 1925 as a function of that department. Maynard Lee Daggy headed the Speech Department from its inception in 1923 until 1946 and directed many of the earlier productions. Departmental theatrical finances, publicity, and publications were the responsibility of the University Theatre office located in Bryan Hall. In the early 1970s a new site for University Theatre productions and the Department of Speech was constructed and subsequently named Daggy Hall. Circa 1988-1989, theatre was moved from Speech and joined with the Department of Music to create the School of Music and Theatre Arts. In 2008, Theatre Arts and Dance were separated from Music, and in May of 2011 the Department of Theatre and Dance closed as a result of budget cuts.
In addition to regular theatre productions, special production units including Children's Theatre, Stage II Productions, Final Stage, The Black Ensemble, Pullman's New Summer Palace, and Stage One have existed. With the exception of Summer Palace, most of these appear to have been sporadic, and were occasionally short lived.
On May 22, 1891, the Board of Regents took possession of the 200-acre farm donated by the citizens of Pullman for the site of the Washington State Agricultural College, Experiment Station, and School of Sciences. In the early years, program offerings were listed only as “Agriculture.” It was not until the arrival of President Holland in 1916 that the institution was restructured into colleges, departments, and schools. Also in 1916, there was pressure to make the Department of Home Economics part of the Department of Agriculture. After surveying the work of other institutions, Agnes Craig, Department Head, wrote, “Since homemaking is a universal need, would it not be desirable to create as part of the newly organized State College of Washington, a separate organization, the first College of Home Economics, thus recognizing the importance of education in that field and giving the work the dignified position that it deserves?” When the reorganization was announced in June 1917, it was confirmed that the College of Home Economics would be one of the five colleges. The College of Agriculture and Home Economics has undergone many changes over the years – the merging of the Colleges of Agriculture and Home Economics in October 1982, programs moving from other colleges to CAHE, departmental name changes and mergers, joint programs with other colleges. Martin Waananen was the chairman of the department of general agriculture, assistant director for the resident instruction, and project director for the Indonesia project all at the same time.
Bruce McFadden (b. 1930) was born to Mary and Eugene McFadden in La Grande, Oregon. During his childhood he attended schools in Spokane, Washington, and in Altadena, California, where he graduated from high school. His attended junior college in Altadena, but transferred to Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, where he graduated with honors in Chemistry in 1952. In 1956, he earned a Ph.D. in Chemistry (under the Division of Biochemistry) from UCLA. In the same year, he accepted an instructor position at Washington State College. By 1961, McFadden was tenured, and by 1966 was promoted to full professor.
In 1963, he established the first Bachelor of Science degree in Biochemistry within a Chemistry Department in the United States, and in 1970 he also established a doctoral program for biochemistry at WSU. Some of Professor McFadden's accomplishments include authoring 4 patents, writing approximately 200 articles, reviewing articles in 29 journals, presenting at national and international meetings, and grant applications for 9 agencies. His research grant awards totaled nearly $7 million. Dr. McFadden retired in 1997 and serves as a Professor Emeritus for the School of Molecular Biosciences at WSU (as of 2017).
In 1978, the International Program Development Office was established in the Graduate School of WSU to direct international development projects. At that time, the University was involved in several projects, with major efforts in Indonesia, Lesotho, and a cooperative project in Sudan.
The majority of south-eastern Washington state was settled in the 1870s, and the most common industry was farming, primarily wheat.
Professor Emeritus James Cecil Nelson, internationally known transportation economist, was born in Bickleton, Washington, on October 5, 1908. Nelson received his B.A. from the University of Washington in 1930, his M.A. from Ohio State University in 1931, and his Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in 1934. Nelson was a Dupont fellow, 1932-1934, and also a research fellow at the Brookings Institution from 1933 to 1934. After receiving his doctorate, Nelson served on the faculties of several universities and also worked for more than a year with the Washington Department of Public Service. In 1938 Nelson joined the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, U.S. Department of Agriculture, as a senior transportation economist. In 1941 he became the principal transportation economist with the National Resources Planning Board.
During the Second World War, Nelson worked with a number of Federal agencies. He served first as assistant director in charge of regulatory policy studies, Division of Economic Studies, Board of Investigation and Research (1941-1944), and later as assistant director, Division of Review and Special Studies, Office of Defense Transportation (1944-1945). Before returning to academic life in 1947, he served as chief of the Transportation Division, Office of Domestic Commerce, U.S. Department of Commerce (1945-1947).
In 1947 Nelson joined the faculty of Washington State University as professor of economics and transportation in the Department of Economics, a position he held until his retirement in September 1974. In addition to his teaching, research, and writing at WSU, Nelson served as a consultant for the Washington State Legislature's Joint Fact-Finding Committee on Highways, Streets, and Bridges, as well as the Legislative Research Committee of the North Dakota Legislature (1948-1952). He also served as a consultant for, among others: the Royal Commission on Transportation, Alberta, Canada (1960); the Federation of Nigeria (1960-1961); the Royal Government of Afghanistan (1963); Pembina Pipe Line Limited, Calgary, Alberta (1961, 1962); A.T. and S.F.; Railway (1961-1968); American Automobile Manufacturers Association (1966); and the Pacific Island Tariff Bureau (1969). In 1956-1957, Nelson was a senior staff member at the Brookings Institution. He also served as visiting professor at the University of Wisconsin (1964), University of British Columbia (fall, 1975), and Monash University, Melbourne, Australia (1975). Nelson's research has resulted in numerous articles in professional journals and a number of books, among which are: Railroad Transportation and National Policy (1959), Transportation Problems and Policies in the Trans-Missouri West (1967), The Future of American Transportation (1971), Perspectives on Regional Transportation Planning (1973), Perspectives on Federal Transportation Policy (1975), and Railway Pricing under Commercial Freedom: The Canadian Experience (1977).
Originally called the Office of International Programs established in 1963 to coordinate and oversee the International Study Abroad programs. This program was reorganized in 1971 resulting in an apparent name change although the tasks of the office remained the same, coordinating programs with foreign student sponsoring agencies and universities. This program also appears to have encompassed NICSA (Northwest Interinstitutional Council on Study Abroad). The program underwent another reorganizing in the late 1980's resulting in the offices present day organization.
Esther Elizabeth Pond Smith was born in Craig, Nebraska on December 25, 1899 to Charles and Anna Pond. In her senior year at Plainview High School in Nebraska, Smith took on a job as a rural teacher of home economics. After graduation, she enrolled at Iowa State College of Agricultural and Mechanical Arts in Ames, Iowa, and completed her Bachelor of Science in home economics. In 1923, Smith returned to Plainview and continued to teach home economics to families preparing to work on farms under the Smith-Hughes Act of 1917. In 1925 she returned to Iowa State College to work as the college’s Extension Clothing Specialist, and in 1928 moved into the general home management branch. In 1930, she accepted a position at the University of Wyoming in Laramie to develop a new department of home management for their extension service. However, in 1933, funding for her department was cut and she returned to Iowa State College Extension. There she started a 4-H program in home management through the Extension Service, which was the first program of its kind in the United States.
In 1935, Smith came to Pullman to become Washington State College’s Extension Economist in home management. During her time in this position, she wrote more than twenty publications for the Extension Service and was published in Kelvinator’s Kitchen Reporter. Most of her articles related to time and motion economy, and streamlining common household tasks. Smith’s work and studies are focused on domestic management, which, during her career, she studied at Columbia University and Purdue University. While at WSU, Esther collaborated with Stanley A. Smith, University Architect and professor and Head of the architectural engineering department. The pair collaborated on many Extension Bulletin publications related to home design and space requirements for maximum efficiency of tasks, and won fourth prize in the Chicago Tribune contest for best kitchen design. Stanley and Esther were married on September 27, 1945. Esther continued to work with the Extension Service and was hired as Instructor of household equipment for WSU’s home economics (euthenics) department. During this time, Esther also received her Master’s degree from WSU in home economics. In 1945 she was appointed by the Human Nutrition and Home Economics Division of the United States Department of Agriculture to complete micro-motion studies on food preparation in farm kitchens in order to establish the most efficient arrangement of kitchen equipment.
When Stanley A. Smith retired in 1950, the couple moved to Ankara, Turkey where Stanley had been appointed architectural advisor to the Ataturk University Development Committee. When they returned to Pullman, Esther joined the Whitman County Historical Society, amassed a large collection of historic photographs of Pullman, and contributed regularly to The Bunchgrass Historian. Esther published a small book on the history of the small town where she and Mr. Smith summered (Excelsior Beach on Lower Twin Lake, Kootenai County, Idaho, 1966). An active local historian, Esther spearheaded the project to create the artesian well replica fountain on Kamiaken Street in Pullman. Moreover, Esther was in the process of writing a book about Pullman’s history, which she never completed. Her research and photo collection were given to the Whitman Historical Society at the time of her death. Both Stanley and Esther Smith died in Pullman in 1988.
George E. Canfield was an attorney in Spokane, Washington.
The early history of Washington State University's College of Education, as revealed in these records, was closely bound to the career of Dean Alfred Alexander Cleveland (b.1876) and the development of primary and secondary education within Washington State. Born in Oregon, Cleveland acquired the Ph.D. in psychology from Clark University in 1906. In 1907 A.. A. Cleveland joined the faculty of the, then, state College of Washington as Assistant Professor of Psychology. Between 1908 and 1910 he first became full professor and then temporary head of the education department. In those times education and psychology were parts of the same department. During the 1917 reorganization WSU was divided into five colleges and four schools. Cleveland's responsibilities then included the deanship of the School of Education and directorship of the annual Summer Session. The records indicate the important role the Summer Session played in enlarging the formal training of primary and secondary teacher in the State of Washington.
Thus from the early years Dean Cleveland was to play an important role in developing education and psychology at WSU. Often in those years he was the only full-time teacher in the department of education. In addition, he served on many statewide educational committees and groups. His students were potent forces within the State of Washington calling for increased attention to quality education for all and adequate teacher preparation. Cleveland served as Dean of the School of Education until his retirement early in 1941.
Dean Cleveland's replacement, J. Murry Lee, came to WSU in January 1941 directly from the faculty of the University of Wisconsin where he had been and active scholar, teacher, and consultant to educational groups. He held the Ph.D. in Education from Columbia University and had experience as a school principal in Los Angeles.
Upon arrival at WSU he proceeded to continue many of Dean Cleveland's policies but he also moved rapidly to help meet the impending war needs of the United States. Lee's first years at WSU were interrupted when he was called to serve in the U. S. Navy from 1943 to 1945. Cleveland temporarily resumed his duties as dean of the School of Education during Lee's absence. However, to ease Cleveland's administrative burden Lee removed the direction of the Summer Session from the Dean's Office. He placed fellow faculty member L. L. Chisholm in temporary charge of the Summer Session. The records show that this new situation produced great strain between the temporary Dean and the temporary Director of the Summer Session.
Upon Lee's return direction of the Summer Session reverted back to the Dean's Office. In addition, Lee began to take up the problems of post-war American education. For example, the program of inservice teacher Preparation was expanded to meet the new demands of returning veterans and the predicted post-war "baby boom." The records show that the WSU College of education actively worked to secure the same objectives it had always sought--quality education for all Washington State citizens through high quality teacher preparation.
'The office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development in 1993, and then as Capital Planning in 2001. The office of Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question.
Established in 1979, the WSU Foundation was created not as an object of philanthropy itself but, rather, as the preferred mechanism through which private support is raised and managed for the sole benefit of Washington State University. Since its inception, the WSU Foundation has raised more than $1.7 billion in private commitments in support of programs and initiatives across Washington State University.
John Willock Noble (1831-1912) served as the United States Secretary of the Interior from 1889-1893.
The Classified Staff Association (CSA) was established in 1980 by Kacey Cooper to address various issues raised by classified staff at Washington State University. The issues addressed by this association included things like emergency pay in the face of closures, poor communication, and clear definitions on job descriptions put out by the University.
Gerald "Jerry" Brong began his Washington State University Libraries career as an audiovisual specialist and then widened his pursuits in the 1970s to educational technology and technology's application in library systems. Brong received his Bachelor's and then Master of Education degree from Central Washington University and worked for a few years as a teacher in the Tacoma Public Schools before beginning his employment in 1964 as the Assistant Director in the Audio-Visual Center of Washington State University Libraries and within a year as Library Faculty. He completed his Doctorate in Education (Ed.D.) at Washington State University in 1972. From 1974 to 1975 he served with the Washington State Library in Olympia as Director of the Library Futures Planning Task Force for the state while continuing to hold his WSU position. By 1977 the Audio-Visual Center had become Instructional Media Services with Brong as Assistant Director and Director of Faculty Services. He resigned from that position in 1982 and left WSU.
Anthropology courses at Washington State University originally fell under the department of Sociology, in the college of Arts and Sciences. In 1963, Anthropology became its own department. Through the years the department has had a number of homes on campus, from Commons Hall to Johnson Tower, and finally to the current building in College Hall, which was renovated in 1983 to house both the department and the Anthropology Research Lab (Center for Northwest Anthropology).
The Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project, 1979-1986, was funded by the United States Agency for International Development and the World Bank. The Agricultural Research Corporation, research division of the Government of Sudan's Ministry of Agriculture, was a partner in the research program. The Consortium for International Development, of which Washington State University is a member, signed with the University's International Programs Development Office in August 1979 to implement the work. Washington State University provided the leadership and administrative support. The World Bank, initiator of the original plan, remained a co-founder, paying for the purchase and operation of an airplane to transport goods and personnel across the 350,000 square miles of the project.
The project aimed to meet the needs of the Western Sudan by: providing training; improving the agricultural research capabilities of four Western provinces; and raising the standard of living for subsistence farmers and pastoralists. Located in Kadugli, a city in Southern Kordofan, the project sought to improve the quality of life for the peoples of this area and the rest of the Sudan.
A list of abbreviations associated with the Sudan project is included below.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
Royal D. Sloan joined the engineering faculty at Washington State University in 1923, becoming the second dean of the engineering college in 1942. He was known to be very supportive of his students, especially during the war years. As dean, he presided over the establishment of the divisions of Industrial Research and Industrial Services and their parent unit, the Washington State Institute of Technology. He served as both dean of the engineering college and institute vice-director until 1956 and continued to teach until his retirement in 1960. Sloan Hall at Washington State University was named after him in 1962.
[Source: “Royal D. Sloan Scholarship in Electrical Engineering”, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Scholarships, accessed November 7, 2019, https://school.eecs.wsu.edu/students/scholarships/royal-d-sloan/.]
[From the guide to the Catherine May Congressional Papers, Cage 304):
Catherine May was born Catherine Dean Barnes at Yakima, Washington, in 1914. Graduating from Yakima High School in 1932, she attended Yakima Valley Junior College through 1934, and then received the Bachelor of Science degree in 1936 and the Fifth Year Education Certificate from the University of Washington in 1937. From 1937 through 1940, she taught English in the Chehalis High School, interrupting this tenure for a brief period in 1939 to study speech at the University of Southern California.
At the close of the school year in 1940, Mrs. May entered into a career in radio journalism and advertising, first with station KMO in Tacoma, and later stations KOMO and KJR in Seattle. From 1942 to 1944, she worked in advertising for Strange and Prosser Advertising Agency and the Federal Insurance Company, both of Seattle. She was in New York City 1944-1946 in the employment of the National Broadcasting Company. Following this, Mrs. May returned to Washington State, continuing in radio journalism at station KIT in Yakima through 1957.
Catherine May entered politics actively when she was a candidate and elected to the Washington State House of Representatives in 1952, representing a Yakima district. Re-elected twice, she remained a member of the state legislature until 1958, when she secured the Republican nomination to succeed retiring Republican Congressman, Otis Halbert Holmes. She was elected to the United States Congress six times and served until 1970 when she was succeeded by Democrat, Mike McCormack. Upon leaving Congress, she was appointed one of the Federal government trustees of the quasi-public National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK). In May of 1971, President Richard Nixon appointed her a member and Chairman of United States Tariff Commission.
When Catherine May entered the United States Congress in early 1959, she was the first woman Representative from the State of Washington. Also, she was the first Representative from the State of Washington in quite a few years to be appointed to the Committee on Agriculture, an assignment that is highly desired by Representatives from Washington State. Mrs. May held this Agriculture Committee assignment during her entire tenure in Congress. Work in this committee, and her efforts on behalf of her constituents, occupied the center of attention throughout her congressional career. Partially due to this concern with agricultural policy, May was selected as a Congressional member of the National Commission on Food Marketing, one of the numerous "study commissions" of the 1960's. During her last term in office, she received a second committee assignment, the Joint committee on Atomic Energy. She was, lastly, a member of the somewhat ephemeral but nevertheless interesting, House Beauty Parlor Committee.
Although Representative May's attention centered on her committee and constituent work, her career was not dominated by either of these. Like most members of Congress in the 1960's, she was involved in almost every major public issue of the time. Her papers reveal significant interests in consumer affairs, the "hunger" and poverty issues, transportation policy, drugs, minority relations, and, on occasion, foreign affairs. The return of a Republican administration to power in the 1968 election increased May's contact and concern with the whole range of governmental and public affairs. She was one of the congressional leaders that supported the administration. She was apparently considered for the post of Secretary of Agriculture at the time the Nixon Administration was organized. After leaving Congress, she continued to receive significant appointments, including United States Tariff Commissioner, a position of importance to the economic issues of the early 1970's.
Carl F. Reuss (1915-2002) was born in Philadelphia to parents Charles and Anna Marie Reuss. He received his undergraduate and graduate degrees from the University of Virginia (B.S 1934, M.S. 1935, Ph.D. 1937), and joined the faculty of the State College of Washington (later Washington State University) as a rural sociologist in that same year. He left WSU in 1944 to join the faculty of Capital University, and later served as Dean of Faculty at Wartburg College. At WSU, he conducted research and published his findings in journal articles and bulletins and other publications issued by the university.
Walter Strickland Thornber (1874-1959) was born in Illinois and received both his Bachelor and Master of Science degrees from South Dakota Agricultural College (today’s South Dakota State University) by 1899 and served on the faculty there until 1904. Special studies at Cornell University followed and resulted in a Master of Science degree in Agriculture. In 1900 Thornber married Phoebe Hough, who died two years later. With his second wife Ethelyn Henry, Thornber had two sons, Gordon and Merrill, and two daughters Evelyn and Georgeann. In spring 1905, Thornber accepted an appointment as Professor of Horticulture at Washington State College and horticulturist for the Washington Agricultural Experiment Station (WAES) at the college.
As horticulturist with WAES, Thornber continued the farmers’ institutes and demonstration trains begun by predecessors and wrote WAES bulletins such as 1910’s “Cherries in Washington.” Glass-plate negatives in this collection furnished some of the prints in Thornber’s bulletins. Thornber also conducted research on fruit varieties suitable for local conditions in an already established experimental orchard.
Thornber served as horticulture faculty and department head at WSC and horticulturalist with WAES until the summer of 1911 when he resigned to become a consulting horticulturist in the Lewiston-Clarkston Valley. There, in the first two decades of the century, the Lewiston-Clarkston Improvement Company (LCIC) and the Lewiston Land and Water Company (LLWC), secured water and land rights in order to irrigate and then sell orchard plots to those who “come here for a common purpose, that of making homes in an orchard community for congenial conditions.”
These companies had solicited Thornber’s advice before he moved from Pullman to the valley, but by 1911 they convinced him to move south where he could work more directly with each company to plan the orchard plots and offer short courses about fruit choices and care under the auspices of the Lewiston-Clarkston School of Horticulture, of which Thornber was made the director. Thornber lectured daily on orchard management, combatting pests, and other topics of interest to budding valley orchardists. LLWC planned to devote about six thousand of its thirty thousand or so acres in the Lewiston-Clarkston Valley to experimental orchards and vineyards which would also be used for laboratory instruction on pruning, spraying, grafting, and so on.
National and state support for agricultural extension work coincided with the diminishment of Thornber’s consulting work and brought him back to Pullman in 1915. The State of Washington had provided funding for agricultural extension work at the experiment station in Pullman and by 1911 the college’s Board of Regents separated the agricultural extension work from the experiment station. With that division, came the need to hire specialists within the Agricultural Extension Service. In 1914 the federal government responded to the demand for more extension work with the Smith-Lever Act that granted money to each land-grant school for agricultural extension work. This attention to the importance of extension work drew Thornber back to Pullman and Washington State College in 1915 as the Director of Agricultural Extension.
Thornber worked at WSC from 1905 until 1911 when he left to work as the Horticulturist for the Lewiston-Clarkston School of Horticulture. He returned to Pullman in 1915 as the director of the Washington Agricultural and Home Economics Extension Service. He again left in 1919 to return to Lewiston to become a full-time fruit grower. Walter S. Thornber died of a stroke April 1, 1959 in his home in Lewiston, Idaho.
Marcus Oppenheimer was a merchant in Marcus, Washington.
The Wranglers, a social club formed in 1910 at Pullman, Washington, began as a small group of male faculty members and senior administrators. The membership was fixed at 20 individuals. Beginning in 1910, they met regularly during the academic year for programs they called "Wrangles," featuring presentations by members. By the 1990s, the group had expanded with a larger membership including at least one woman.
Gertrude M. Bodean Spencer (1909-2002) was born Ephrata, Washington, to Martha (Pruitt) and H. D. Bodean. Roy E. Spencer (1910-1985) was born in Pullman, Washington, to Edward and Lula (Jordan) Spencer. Gertrude and Roy were married in 1940, and remained in Pullman were they each became proprietors of their own businesses. Gertrude was the owner and operator of Gertrude's Beauty Salon and served as an active member of the Washington State Cosmetology Association. Roy owned and operated Spencer Production and Sales Company, which specialized in developing tools used in the timber industry. He invented the Spencer Tape Measure (patented 1962) that is still widely used in logging operations today.
Benjamin Francis Roche, Jr. (1924-1997) was an expert on weeds and range plants. From 1958 to 1965, he worked as an Extension Weed Specialist for the State of Washington. From 1965 to 1987, he worked for Washington State University in the Department of Natural Resource Sciences as the institution's first Extension Range Management Specialist. His research was linked to range resource problems in Washington and surrounding states, and during his time at WSU he trained many Range Conservationists.
The Washington State University Cooperative Extension Service was founded in 1913. Originally known as the Agricultural Extension Service, it took the current name to reflect the cooperative nature of this service, which is funded by federal state and local agencies. The state level organization of the service is operated by WSU in its capacity as the land-grant college for the state of Washington.
The Office of Controller is the main financial office of Washington State University (formally State College of Washington). It receives and disburses all University funds. It is also responsible for keeping a record of all financial transactions and obligations.
Washington State University as an institution dates to 1890, when it was authorized by the newly-formed State of Washington. WSU's history is documented in numerous pieces of film and video, the oldest known being film footage of the Jan. 1 1916 "Rose Bowl" football game played in Pasadena, California.
Purchase; Wessel and Lieberman; 2003.
The Washington State University Agriculture Research Center (ARC) is a part of WSU’s College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences (CAHNRS). The ARC began in 1892 as the Washington Agricultural Experiment Station, then an element of the Washington Agricultural College, Experiment Station, and School of Science, now Washington State University. Located near Pullman on a farm donated to the state, the station became the site of agricultural instruction and experimental work conducted by the staff of the station and the faculty of the College of Agriculture. It soon extended to branch stations across the state. In 1946 it became part of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences, and in 1965 it was integrated into the newly-organized Agricultural Research Center (ARC) of the College of Agriculture. Washington State’s commodity commissions are “industry-funded state agencies that promote and fund crop research and/or the marketing of crops.” The commissions are considered governmental agencies as they are state-mandated, but they are governed and funded by growers under the supervision of the state Director of Agriculture. The oldest Washington commodity commission, the Washington Apple Commission, dates to 1937.
Ralph Roger Sundquist was born in Galesburg, Illinois, on 5 January 1894, to the Rev. and Mrs Hjalmar Sundquist. In 1910, the family moved to the Yakima Valley because Hjalmar had health problems he thought curable in a warm, dry climate. Ralph graduated from Yakima High School in 1912 and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Horticulture from the State College of Washington in 1916. A year later, he received a Master of Science degree in Horticulture from the State College. He taught biological courses for a year at Whitworth College, in Spokane, before returning to Yakima, where he taught high school for two years. About this time he married Elaine Fager.
The Sundquist family entered the apple business soon after arriving in the Yakima Valley. Around 1920, Ralph purchased his first orchard near Gleed. The Sunnyslope orchards did very well through the rest of the decade, raising a number of apple varieties for nationwide markets. These included the Starking Red Delicious. The early 1930s economic downturn nearly left Sundquist in financial ruin. In 1948, Sundquist and a colleague opened the Hansen Fruit and Cold Storage Company, in Yakima. He later established the Sundquist Fruit and Cold Storage Co. In 1966, he built a new controlled-atmosphere storage facility for processing, storing and shipping apples from his 850 acres of orchards and those of others.
Sundquist was an active member of the community. He was an early communicant of Yakima's First Presbyterian Church, giving much of his time and money. He made large contributions for improvements in the congregation's pipe organ in the 1940s and 1950s, and for stained glass windows. He was president of the Lower Naches Telephone Company, the the Yakima District Horticultural Society, and the Washington State Horticultural Association. He also as a board member of the Yakima YMCA, founding director of the Yakima Valley Memorial Hospital (later a trustee), director of the Yakima Valley College, and member of the Yakima School board. Sundquist also helped organize Yakima's first television station, KIMA-TV, and Yakima's educational television station.
Early in the 1950s, Ralph became a member of the Atomic Energy Commission's Personnel Advisory Board for the Hanford Project. He helped evaluate potential employees' security clearance applications. At this time, he also became a director of the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank's Seattle Branch. In 1963, Ralph and two dozen other regional agribusinessmen travelled around the world as part of the U.S. State Department's People-to-People cultural exchange program. They observed crop production methods in many developing Middle Eastern and Asian countries. Among his many honors for civic activities, Ralph Sundquist received the Boy Scouts of America's Silver Beaver Award for his commitment to the Fort Simcoe Council. He also won the Greater Yakima Valley Chamber of Commerce's Award of Merit for outstanding community service. He received the State College of Washington's Certificate of Merit.
Many terms historically used to describe individuals and communities with disabilities are offensive and were used to dismiss, discount and dehumanize these individuals and communities. Terms often focused on a perceived impairment and not the person. MASC recognizes the harm caused by these terms. We retain the language in this finding aid to document history and preserve context.
Gustav Thomas was an agricultural machinery inventor and manufacturer from Lind, Washington.
Carl Milton Brewster (1881-1961) was Professor of Organic Chemistry at Washington State University from 1912 to 1950. He was born in Chagrin Falls, Ohio, the son of Milton Brewster and Mary (Lambert) Brewster. He received his A.B. degree from Oberlin College in 1903, and then taught high school science for two years at Two Harbors, Minnesota. He then pursued graduate study in organic chemistry, receiving his A.M. degree from Harvard University in 1906. He was Francis Parkman Fellow at Harvard from 1908 to 1909. Brewster continued his studies at Heidelberg University prior to becoming professor of chemistry at Mount Union College (1910-1912). After his marriage to Alfhild Nordby in 1912, he joined the faculty of the State College of Washington. (From the guide to the Carl Milton Brewster Papers, Cage 44)
Carl Milton Brewster and Alfhild Nordby Brewster had three children: Carl (1913-1987), Josephine (1914-2001), and Milton (1917-2005).
Siblings Cloyd and Audrey Artman of Oroville, WA were both flyers of gliders in the early 20th century in Eastern Washington. Both started flying gliders in their teens, and Cloyd had a particularly remarkable flight in 1934, soaring for over 13 hours, an endurance record at the time. As a student at Washington State College, Cloyd helped organize the WSC Aero Club. On a demonstration flight for the club in 1937, his glider crashed and he was killed.
Source: "Cloyd Artman: Pioneer Glider Pilot of the Northwest (1913-1937), RC Sport Flyer (February 2010), 40-47.
Ira C. Otis (1861-1938) was born in Jewelton, Wisconsin. He moved to Grays Harbor, Washington, in 1889. During his residence in the state, worked as an engineer for the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, the Surveyor General's office in Olympia, the Great Northern Railroad, and the State Highway Department. Otis developed a hobby in botany, and collected specimens as well as research materials, with a focus in ferns, grasses, and water plants. In 1936, Otis donated items from his personal herbarium to the Washington State University Herbarium.
The Washington State University Cooperative Extension Service was founded in 1913. Originally known as the Agricultural Extension Service, it took the current name to reflect the cooperative nature of this service, which is funded by federal state and local agencies. The state level organization of the service is operated by WSU in its capacity as the land-grant college for the state of Washington.
The Pullman Baptist Church, located in Pullman, Washington, was organized as a successor to the First Baptist Church in 1914. The First Baptist Church was founded in 1892 in Pullman, Washington, however the church suffered financial difficulties and ceased as an organization in 1913.
Between 1914 and 1920, the membership of the Pullman Baptist Church fluctuated, while the church faced financial problems and pastors who stayed for short durations. With the arrival of Reverend William E. Monbeck in 1920, the church began to grow rapidly. In 1929, the Pullman Baptist Church established itself at their newly constructed church.
Purchase; The Scriptorium; 1991.
Frank Fraser Potter (1879-1959) was a member of the faculty at Washington State College from 1912 to 1949. He was WSC's first professor of philosophy. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan, and taught there and at Transylvania University prior to accepting a position at WSC. Upon his retirement from WSC, he was named Professor Emeritus.
Irene Eleanora Michet (1889-1971) received her A.B. from the University of Illinois in 1920. After teaching high school English in Illinois for several years, she joined the faculty of the WSC English Department in 1927. When she and Frank Potter were married in 1929, she resigned from her teaching position.
Both of the Potters were actively involved in the campus community, and for over 25 years they hosted regular Friday afternoon gatherings at their home for students they encouraged to pursue advanced, competitive scholarly opportunities, particularly Rhodes Scholarships; ten of these students became Rhodes Scholars. The Potters also hosted regular Wednesday afternoon open houses for men and women students, and faculty members.
The Potters bequeathed their Pullman home to Washington State University, and endowed the Frank and Irene Potter Memorial Scholarship. The Frank Fraser Potter Memorial Lecture, an annual event, was established shortly after Frank Potter's death through an anonymous donation from one of his former students.
Sources:
Bierbower, June. "'A Man, Not a System.'" Washington State Review II, no. 4 (Summer 1959): 21-25.
Bell, Aldon Duane. "Finding the Best Candidates for Rhodes Scholarships" (undated clipping, possibly 1959, from The American Oxonian).
Richard Wagner was a German composer and poet.
Washington State University Press was first developed in 1920, when the University decided to add a scholarly publishing division to promote and distribute faculty research. In the late 1980s, the Press was expanded and reformed to release titles related to regional history of Pullman and the Palouse. The press has published over 200 titles and received several honors and awards.
The Office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development in 1993, and then as Capital Planning in 2001. The office of Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question.
Dr. Charles Gardner Shaw (1917-1998) served as a professor, and later a chairman, in the Department of Plant Pathology at Washington State University from 1947 to 1983. Dr. Shaw earned his B.S. degree from Ohio Wesleyan College in 1938, his Master of Science degree from Pennsylvania State University in 1947, and his Ph.D. in Botany from the University of Wisconsin in 1949. Dr. Shaw also served in the U.S. Marine Corps during WWII, continuing in the Marine Corps Reserves and later as a liaison officer for the Marine Corps and WSU after his appointment to the university as a professor. Dr. Shaw taught forest pathology and was an expert on diseases of forest trees, an area in which he conducted extensive research projects in the late 1940s and through the 1950s. Dr. Shaw's later research focused on mycology, especially the downy mildews. By the 1970s, Dr. Shaw participated in several projects, including his position as Chief of Party for an international team of agricultural scientists working in a Jordanian agricultural university.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
Secretary, American Board of Missions, Boston, Massachusetts.
Edward C. Klostermeyer, professor of entomology and entomologist, earned his B.S. (1940) and M.S. (1942) at the University of Nebraska, engaged in additional study at the University of California, Berkeley, and earned his Ph.D. at WSU in 1952. He joined the WSU faculty in 1947 at the Irrigation Experiment Station in Prosser, and came to Pullman in 1975 as Professor of entomology and entomologist. His areas of research specialization include insect pollination of alfalfa and tree fruits with solitary bees, control of insects attacking field crops, insect transmission of plant diseases and insect ecology. He authored and co-authored many published articles on entomology and produced two films related to his research on bees. He served as president of the Washington State Entomological Society and was a member of the Entomological Society of America. He also was affiliated with Alpha Zeta, agriculture honorary society and Sigma Xi, honorary scientific research society. Three times during his WSU career, he served as acting chairman of the Department Department of Entomology. He retired in 1981.
Frederick William Buchholz (1841-1929) was a German Methodist minister in Eastern Washington, circa 1886-1907.
James “Jim” Anthony Baenen (July 2, 1938-Oct. 5, 2017) received a B.A. from the University of Idaho before getting an M.A. in Anthropology at Washington State University in 1965. His WSU thesis dealt with hunting and fishing rights of the Nez Perce Indians. Baenen became a professor of Anthropology at Seattle Central Community College.
James L. Stevens (1892-1971), author of Paul Bunyan (1925), was born in Iowa and spent his early years there, first on a farm with his mother, and then in the town of Moravia with his maternal grandmother. At thirteen, he moved to southwestern Idaho to live with his father, who had homesteaded there after leaving his family before James was born. His formal education in public and industrial schools ended with the eighth grade, when he left the Weiser area on a freight train. He worked as a casual laborer in various parts of Idaho, moving from place to place on freight trains, and continued his education independently in public libraries.
During his military service with the Oregon National Guard in Europe during World War I, Stevens, who had been writing since he was very young, began publishing stories in Stars and Stripes. When his military service was completed he returned to Oregon and his former work as a laborer. He continued to write, publishing some of his work in national periodicals including the Saturday Evening Post and H. L. Mencken's American Mercury.
His first and best-known book, Paul Bunyan, a collection of "tall tales" about the legendary North American woodsman, was published by A. A. Knopf in 1925. After this early success, he regularly wrote and published stories, articles, and reviews in magazines and newspapers, and produced several more books, including Brawnyman (1926), Mattock (1927), Homer in the Sagebrush (1928), Saginaw Paul Bunyan (1932), Timber (1942), and Big Jim Turner (1948).
From 1937 to 1957, Stevens was public relations director for the West Coast Lumbermen's Association. While there, he helped initiate the "Keep Washington Green" program.
SOURCES CONSULTED:
Maguire, James H. James Stevens. Boise: Boise State University, 2005.
Clare, Warren L. "Big Jim Stevens: A Study in Pacific Northwest Literature." Ph.D. diss., Washington State University, 1967.
The ASWSU (Associated Students of Washington State University) Activities Center serves the university by organizing, directing and generally over-seeing many campus-related student group activities. Administering of student organizations includes constant evaluation and advisement. The Activities Center was established with approval of the Board of Regents in the Spring of 1947 in answer to student and faculty demands. It began operation during the fall semester of that year. The goal of the Activities Center was to enable a joint student-faculty coordination and participation in student and campus life. The student-faculty cooperative effort was to be augmented by a staff of professionals through whose help the Activities Center was "to bring efficiency and direction by coordinating and guiding existing student organizations, by assisting new groups in developing new programs, an by aiding individual students in planning a balanced program of activities." (As observed in a Review of Student Activities Center Program, April, 1948).At the time the Activities Center was organized, most of the social activities and student involvement in campus life were coordinated by living groups. As students' living arrangements gradually became more diffuse, the Activities Center became a more important central focal point coordinating their activities. The Activities Center, therefore, became a place of general guidance, assistance and counseling for student committees and concerns. Furthermore, it became a central repository for committee records where evaluations of past activities could be used for recommendations of procedures for future efforts. In this regard, on an annual basis, evaluations of past activities could be used for recommendations of procedures for future efforts. In this regard, on an annual basis, evaluative reports are filed with the Activities Center so that evaluations of the programs can be made; these reports are filed by Committee Chairmen, as well as by faculty advisors to individual committees. The Activities Center also played a supplemental role in reorganization of the student government. Prior to the formation of the Activities Center, and for some time after it began, the major student government organizational structure was the class governments. However, in time, and especially during the decade of the 1960s, the ASWSU (an organization of all students) superseded the class government system, and the class governments were discontinued in 1968. For the Activities Center this has meant that the role of the students, in directing and actually involving themselves in the workings of the Activities Center, has increased. What was once a joint student-faculty arrangement, in conjunction with professional administrators, has become more of a joint effort between students and professionals.
English poet.
Confluence Press, a nonprofit literary publisher, was founded at Lewis-Clark State College in Lewiston, Idaho in 1975. The founding editors were M. Keith Browning and Shirley Browning, followed by James Hepworth. The press published both new and established poets and writers, including Richard Hugo, William Stafford, and Norman Maclean.
Clare A. Gray was a salesman in Spokane, Washington. He also served as the manager of various mining companies, including Addison Copper Company and Idaho Premier Lead Mines.
English author, memoirist, and essayist. Daughter of William Thackeray.
The functions and duties of the Washington State University President are defined in University Faculty Manual, edition of 1987, as:
In addition to being designated as secretary ex officio of the Board of Regents, the President as general agent of the Board is the chief executive officer of Washington State University. The President administers the policies approved by the Board of Regents, serves as advisor to the Board on policies and operations and is the agent through whom representations to the Board are regularly made. Other functions of the chief executive officer include: Leadership in developing policies and organization for teaching, research, and extension programs. Public administration of the University, including representation before the Legislature and other state agencies. Responsibility for the general welfare of students; the development, operation and maintenance of buildings, lands and equipment; financial matters pertaining to development, operation and maintenance of University; and the administration of regulations adopted by the Board of Regents. Responsibility, delegated by the Board of Regents, for all appointments, promotion, salaries, leaves, resignations, and dismissals. Presiding at meetings of the general faculty.
Ernest Otto Holland was born in Bennington, Indiana on February 4, 1874. He received an A.B. degree from Indiana University in 1895. From 1895 to 1900 he taught English at various Indiana high schools, and then became Head of the English Department at Louisville Male High School in Kentucky. In 1900 Holland became Associate Professor of Education at Indiana University. He progressed from Associate Professor in 1905 to Professor by 1908. In 1908 he took a leave of absence to further his education at the Teachers' College of Columbia University. In 1910, with funding from the Carnegie Foundation, Holland undertook a study of public education in Pennsylvania that ultimately became his doctoral dissertation. After receiving his Doctor of Philosophy degree, Holland became Superintendent of Louisville Schools.
In January 1916 Holland became the fourth President of the State College of Washington. In 1917, President Holland initiated a reorganization of the institution, creating five colleges and four schools, a key step toward eventual university status. Holland encouraged recruitment of national fraternities and sororities to the Pullman campus, with 22 new Greek chapters established during his presidency. Holland became the longest-serving president of WSU, retiring in 1945.
The University’s then new central library, completed in 1950, was named Holland Library in his honor. The University’s Museum of Art houses the E. O. Holland Collection, primarily nineteenth and early twentieth century American and European paintings that Holland collected and donated to WSU. E. O. Holland died in May 1950.
For information on Holland's administration and his other interests see: William Landeen, E. O. Holland and The State College of Washington: 1916-1944.
Sigmond Slonim was born in Russia in 1878 and died in Duluth, Minnesota in 1981. He came to America in 1901 where he finished his education, culminating in a law degree from St. Paul College of Law in 1913. He practiced law until his retirement in 1957. He worked most often for the "underdog," including his efforts on behalf of children's welfare. He was active in the Farmer-Labor Association and even ran for office in that party. He was one of the founding members of the Saturday Lunch Club in Duluth, which met weekly to discuss issues of local, national, and international importance. He was also very involved in civic issues, including urban development and city planning. Slonim was a member of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) and the Socialist Party of America.
Little biographical information is readily available for Lena Epstein Slonim (1885-1962), Sigmond Slonim's wife. She was also born in Russia, and as a young girl moved with her family to Minnesota. She earned a Bachelor of Philosophy degree from the University of Chicago in 1906; she also held a teaching certificate.
Philip H. Abelson (1913-2004), a graduate of Washington State College (B.S., chemistry 1933; M.S., physics 1935), was a prominent American scientist who served as editor of the journal Science from 1962 to 1985. He earned his Ph.D. in nuclear physics (1939) from the University of California, Berkeley. During World War II, Abelson worked at the Naval Research Laboratory, where he developed the thermal diffusion process for separation of Uranium-235 from Uranium-238, and worked on the development of nuclear reactors for use on submarines. He spent most of his career at the Carnegie Institution of Washington (now the Carnegie Institution for Science), where he continued to conduct research in nuclear physics, and also pursued research questions in other science disciplines, particularly biochemistry and microbiology. With his colleague Edwin McMillan, he discovered the element Neptunium.
Neva Martin Abelson (1910-2000) met Philip Abelson at Washington State College, where both were students in chemistry. She earned a B.S. in chemistry in 1934, and an M.D. from Johns Hopkins in 1942. She was a distinguished scientist, with a long career in biomedical research and medical school teaching. With Louis K. Diamond, she developed the Rhesus factor test that is now routinely conducted for pregnant women, a response to life-threatening Rh factor incompatibility that often caused illness and death in affected newborns.
United States Senator from Washington state. 1972 graduate of Washington State University.
Veterinary science has been a part of the curriculum of Washington State University from the institution's beginning in 1890. Within seven years, veterinary science expanded from one course to become a major division: the School of Veterinary Science. Upon completion of a three year program, the first class of Doctors of Veterinary Medicine were graduated in 1902. The school was designated the College of Veterinary Science in 1916, and the program of study was extended to four years. In 1925 the title was altered to the College of Veterinary Medicine. Reorganization in 1945 made the Veterinary College a subdivision of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences, however during the 1960's the College regained its autonomy. Presently the College of Veterinary Medicine is comprised of the departments of (1) Anatomy, Pharmacology/ Toxicology, and Physiology, (2) Clinical Medicine and Surgery, and (3) Microbiology and Pathology as well as five special programs.
A more extensive history of the College, Narrative History of WSU Veterinary College, prepared by Dr. Lavon M. Koger on the occasion of the seventy-fifth anniversary, was published in 1974.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
The principal contact of the University and the athletics conferences and associations is the faculty representative. The faculty representative from Washington State University originally worked with the Athletic Association of Western Universities (AAWU). The conference changed its name to the Pacific Athletic Conference (PAC-8) in 1968, and then to the PAC-10 in 1978. The representative was responsible for representing WSU in conference meetings and official functions, as well as rules interpretation and compliance. He was the channel for athletes to petition conference and/or NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) rules. He also headed many search committees, and was a member of the University Athletic Council, which advised on internal athletic issues.
Wallis Beasley served as representative through 1966, and Edward Bennett, a professor in the history department, took over thereafter.
Joe Smith was a farmer, political activist, and journalist in Washington State. Smith was born in Missouri in 1872, and his family moved to Endicott, Washington in 1883. Although he attended Missouri State University (now the University of Missouri), Smith completed his formal education at Washington Agricultural College (now Washington State University). The chapter of his autobiography found in this collection details his time at the university and his impressions of college president E.A. Bryan.
Hanna Elsa Krueger was born in Hutchinson, Minnesota on April 20, 1905. She graduated from the University of Chicago with a degree in English Education in 1928. She received a Bachelor's degree in Philosophy the next year and a Bachelor of Science degree in Library Science from the University of Illinois in 1938. Her work experience included: secretary for publishing companies, assistant in the University of Illinois Library School, Assistant Librarian and Instructor in Library Science at Carroll College Library from 1938 to 1940 and Acting Librarian from 1940 to 1943. In that year she received a Master's degree from the Graduate Library School of the University of Chicago for several successive summers' work. The next two years she was Assistant Librarian and Instructor in Library Science at Western Illinois State Teachers' College. From 1945 to 1948 she was Head of the Cataloging Department at Wayne County Library, Detroit, Michigan. The following year, Miss Krueger served as Head of the Catalog and Order department.
In 1949 Miss Krueger came to Washington State University as Head of the Cataloging Department. The following year she was promoted to Chief of the Technical Services Division. From 1953 to 1970 she was Chief of the Humanities Library. She retired from Washington State University on June 30, 1970.
Her areas of professional interest were administration, reference, catalog, and teaching library science. Professional organizations in which she belonged included the American Library Association, the Pacific Northwest Library Association, and the Washington Library Association. She also was a member of the American Association of University Professors, the American Association of University Women, and the League of Women Voters.
Stereoscopes (also known as stereographs, or stereoscopic views) are generally sets of two photographs mounted side-by-side on cards, designed so that when looked at through a viewer they would appear three dimensional. They came into popularity in the late 1800s, and peaked in popularity between 1900 and 1940.
Mountain Home School District Number 1, located in Latah County, Idaho, was organized in 1890 with J. W. Haynes active in laying out the boundaries. The school's first session was held in 1892. In 1907 a new school building was constructed.
Fruitland Canning Association was incorporated in the State of Idaho in 1937. It was a cooperative of fruit and vegetable growers, and as of 1970 it was affiliated with North Pacific Canners and Packers, processing both frozen and canned products.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
S. Judson "Jud" Crandell (1913-1966) was a faculty member in the Department of Speech at Washington State University from 1946 until his death in 1966, and served as department chair from 1947 to 1963. He was an active scholar in the field of public speaking, co-authoring a textbook, Speech: A Course in Fundamentals (1963) and several articles in the Quarterly Journal of Speech and Western Speech. He earned his A.B. degree from Denison University (1934), his M.A. from the University of MIchigan (1937), and his Ph.D. from Northwestern University (1946).
John Jacob Bauer was a merchant and farmer in Colton, Whitman County, Washington.
Blukis Onat Applied Sciences, Inc. (later simply BOAS, Inc.) is a Washington corporation registered in 1982 by Dr. Astrida Blukis Onat. Classified by the North American Industry Classification System under 541690, "Other Scientific and Technical Consulting Services," this Seattle-based firm specializes in archaeological and ethnographic work authorized under federal and state regulations to provide for the management of cultural resources.
Astrida Blukis Onat's professional life in the Pacific Northwest began in 1966 with an appointment as an Anthropology and Sociology Instructor at the newly formed Seattle Community College (later Seattle Central Community College) from which she retired nearly 30 years later. During a 1973-1974 sabbatical, Blukis Onat continued graduate studies at Washington State University (WSU) and in 1980 completed her PhD in anthropology.
For the first couple decades of her teaching career, Blukis Onat organized summer archaeological field schools for her students. Because of opportunities for consulting work separate from her academic position, she founded in 1974 as a sole proprietorship Blukis Archaeological Consulting Service (BACS) and characterized it as "perhaps the second private contract archaeology company in Washington State" (Blukis Onat, "BOAS History").* BACS and Blukis Onat joined others around the United States in cultural resource management (CRM), a term and a profession that emerged in the 1970s.
Blukis Onat's WSU affiliation gave access to the emerging contract arm of the university's anthropology department, Washington Archaeological Research Center, as well as to private contracting firms such as National Heritage, Inc., co-founded by WSU anthropology professor Richard Daugherty. Through BACS and working for or sub-contracting with WSU-associated groups, Blukis Onat completed archaeological projects for government entities and private firms. By late 1978, though, the advantages of an approach outside of university/college bureaucracies that allowed not only quicker response times but also collaborations with nearby professionals for more complex projects resulted in Blukis Onat teaming with Seattle Central colleagues in the Institute of Cooperative Research, Inc. (ICR), a Washington corporation, and within a year directing large projects such as for the Washington Public Power Supply System and Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest. Blukis Onat left ICR to found Blukis Onat Applied Sciences (later BOAS, Inc.) in October 1982. Blukis Onat's progression from consulting within college or university structures to business incorporation mirrored a national trend from the mid-1970s to the early 1980s of private industry replacing institution-based groups in the management of cultural resources. Some American archaeologists characterize this transition as the discipline's bifurcation between the contract-based work of CRM professionals and the research focus of academic archaeologists.
Cultural resource management flourished during this era because of the confluence of historic preservation with natural resources protection in the stream of governmental regulations. The 1906 Antiquities Act articulated the federal government's interest in protecting historic and prehistoric sites on public land while the 1935 Historic Sites Act asserted that the protection of resources identified as of national historical or archaeological significance was in the public's interest. But before the 1960s, policymakers had not systematically applied those acts to foster a preservation ethic for a variety of cultural resources. Preservation measures for archaeologists, in particular, involved not the management of cultural resources but attempts to "salvage" data as infrastructure projects such as dam building inundated huge areas from the 1930s into the 1960s. Although the 1960 Reservoir Salvage Act mitigated the ad hoc nature of these information collection efforts, the 1966 National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) solidified a national commitment to preservation in its call for "productive harmony" between "our modern society and our prehistoric and historic resources." NHPA orchestrated that harmony through provisions that constructed a management apparatus for cultural resources that included federal-state partnership in the formation of state historic preservation offices (and, after 1992 amendments, tribal historic preservation offices too), national oversight in the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, a more expansive definition of significance for cultural resources deemed eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places that the act created, and the Section 106 review process that was critical for the development of the field of cultural resource management because it mandated that federal agencies consider the effects on cultural resources of any projects they carried out, approved, or funded.
Albeit NHPA's Section 106 established a management process for cultural resources affected by federal undertakings, cultural resource management's rapid expansion waited until after the 1969 National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA). That statute called for "productive and enjoyable harmony between man and his environment" to be achieved by establishing the role of the federal government in assessing the effect of federally funded actions on the environment through its Environmental Assessment/Environmental Impact Statement process, which took into account "historic, cultural, and natural aspects of our national heritage." Thus NHPA and NEPA instituted a federal planning process to identify the effect of actions on the environment and on cultural resources. In 1971 President Nixon's Executive Order 11593 reinforced NHPA's preservation ethic and also called for locating and evaluating sites on federally owned or controlled properties. The 1974 Archeological and Historic Preservation Act authorized all federal agencies to fund investigations in order to mitigate the impacts of their projects on important archaeological sites.
The resulting historic preservation and environmental protection regulatory structure standardized a bureaucratic procedure of identifying and mitigating effects of actions on cultural resources that then created a market for CRM firms who could respond quickly to private and governmental requests for assessments. BOAS was one such firm. It competed for and secured many projects from the 1980s through the 1990s and into the 21st century.
In the 1980s, Blukis Onat continued as a full-time college instructor while directing the company and managing report production as principal investigator. Assisted by a limited staff of sometimes only a couple full-time employees supplemented by part-time workers, especially project-specific field crews, Blukis Onat and BOAS completed many small projects, most often surveys to locate prehistoric and historic sites within an area to be impacted by an undertaking such as highway realignment. Sometimes, though, the projects provided background used for planning. For example, Blukis Onat noted that in 1986 BOAS completed Washington State's first Resource Protection Planning Process (RP3) document ("BOAS History"). The National Park Service in the late 1970s advocated RP3, calling for each state to identify study units with common historical contexts and then to develop management plans for the cultural resources within them. Though RP3 generated much criticism and was replaced with more general guidelines for preservation and management plans, BOAS Project 198606 for the "Northern Puget Sound Study Unit" along with other study unit reports prepared for the state by other CRM contractors recorded early statewide cultural resource management efforts.
BOAS took on larger projects in the 1990s, some that included archaeological excavation for which data recovery required more temporary workers both for the field and the laboratory and demanded wide and deep data analysis to enable the synthesis necessary for reports that assessed responsibly the impact of an undertaking on the cultural resources. Blukis Onat characterized these projects as "equivalent to PhD dissertations" ("BOAS History") and noted the additional burden they imposed because clients often needed to be convinced that appropriate funding of report writing was as critical to compliance with CRM regulations as fieldwork. BOAS proved adept at these projects. In 2006, nearly a quarter century after the company's beginning, a principal with a competing CRM company remarked that BOAS had conducted more data recovery excavations than any other company in Washington state (Blukis Onat, "BOAS History").
The largest of these projects was a five-year contract with the Walla Walla District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to reassess the Palouse Canyon Archaeological District (BOAS Project 199212). That district included the famed but inundated Marmes Rockshelter with its evidence of occupation more than 11,000 years ago as well as dozens of other sites. The scope of this contract required the company to secure a Small Business Administration loan to bulk up for a project that required field crews for each October from 1992 through 1995 for site survey and extensive rock shelter excavations, the subsequent analysis of what was recovered, annual report production, and a culminating, eighth volume with a management plan for the Palouse Canyon Archaeological District. During these years, BOAS managed $500,000 or more in contracts. The expanded workload allowed Blukis Onat to accept an early retirement from Seattle Central in 1995 and devote herself full time to the company no longer only as principal investigator but also often as project manager.
Projects ebbed and flowed as cultural resource management evolved in changing governmental environments such as ones that favored public-private partnerships. Another complex excavation project brought BOAS into one of these partnerships beginning in 1997. For a Tolt River water treatment facility, Seattle Public Utilities teamed with CDM Philip, the company in charge of designing, building, and operating the facility once constructed. That private firm then subcontracted BOAS first for monitoring during construction that quickly became large-scale data recovery of cultural resources several thousand years old and resulted in a six-volume report. The Tolt archaeological site generated more than bureaucratic paperwork and gray literature. Because its location was known as an old Snoqualmie settlement Stuwe'yuqw, members of several Northwest tribes visited the site. Chairman of the Snoqualmie Tribe Andrew de los Angeles organized volunteer efforts to continue investigations after the contracted work concluded and involved Snoqualmie Valley public schools as well. Archaeology Month activities in 1998 and 1999 offered visits to the site and to the laboratory. King County integrated the site into middle school curriculum for Snoqualmie Valley schools. In addition to these public outreach efforts, BOAS informed the professional archaeological community through a series of poster and paper presentations at the 1999 Northwest Anthropology Conference and the 2000 and 2001 Society for American Archaeology conferences. Finally Stuwe'yuqw starred in a 2001 video production for "Seattle Focus," a monthly video magazine on Seattle's governmental access channel. In these outreach efforts, BOAS Project 199705 revealed the wider reach possible for some CRM projects.
The Palouse Canyon and Tolt projects focused primarily on prehistoric resources but another project highlighted the company's ability to work with historic resources including standing buildings in the Swanson Lakes Wildlife Area in the Channeled Scablands of Lincoln County, Washington (BOAS Project 199710). Along with prehistoric land uses, BOAS documented historic ones through oral history interviews with local residents who recalled agricultural uses and with members of the Spokane Tribe and Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation who traveled to the area to harvest seasonally available plants.
The company's ethnographic research into the communities who moved across the Swanson Lakes landscape exemplified another shift in the scope of and approach to cultural resource management. Though not specifically a piece of CRM legislation, the 1978 American Indian Religious Freedom Act (AIRFA) identified the federal government's role in protecting access to Native sacred places. For federal landholding agencies such as the U.S. Forest Service, the act motivated them to identify such sites. As mentioned above, one of ICR's large projects was for Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest. In 1980 this forest contracted for an inventory of tribal peoples' religious use of the forest. Working with thirteen tribes and different ethnographers over three years, ICR produced a three-volume report not in this collection but held by the forest. This experience in applied ethnography and the contacts made with Northwest tribal members produced long lasting results for Blukis Onat and ultimately for BOAS.
The founding documents of cultural resource management referred to "resources" and "properties," but not often to the people who produced them. Unlike NHPA or NEPA, AIRFA referred first to people in its call "to protect and preserve for American Indians" their religious rights. Though the 1988 Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association Supreme Court decision eviscerated the law's provisions to protect sacred places, AIRFA marked a shift in federal legislation solidified in 1990 when the National Park Service issued "National Register Bulletin 38: Guidelines for Evaluating and Documenting Traditional Cultural Properties" and in it defined "traditional cultural properties." The Section 106 review process had always included consultation with living communities and through it had, for example, been used to protect places a community, especially tribal peoples, regarded as integral to their identity. These locations, not all with distinct boundaries, became known in the bulletin as "traditional cultural properties" (TCP). The bulletin then provided guidelines to assess their eligibility to the National Register of Historic Places. Nothing in the bulletin limited designation of "traditional cultural properties" to Native American spiritual sites, but cultural resource managers most often use TCP for such sites.
A reorientation of CRM practice to recognize cultural resources' significance as defined by living communities and not just by research potential aligned with Blukis Onat's broadened anthropological approach that combined archaeology and ethnography. While conducting field schools for her SCC students, Blukis Onat had since the late 1960s regularly consulted with members of the Swinomish Indian Community (SITC) and in the 1970s had met Sauk-Suiattle Indian Tribe (SSIT) members. By the late 1980s, Blukis Onat worked with and for these communities as an ethnographic expert in court cases and because of her friendship with the sisters Jean Bedal Fish and Edith Bedal, edited their "Two Voices, A History of the Sauk and Suiattle People and Sauk Country Experiences." Though the legal work belongs to and resides with the tribes, the "Two Voices" manuscript is accessible here (BOAS Project 200003). BOAS produced an ethnographic literature review for Mount Rainier National Park that also resulted in a volume of the "Journal of Northwest Anthropology" devoted to reproducing Northwest Indian peoples' legends about Tahoma (Mount Rainier). Each of the above along with the earlier inventory of tribal peoples' religious use of Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest laid the groundwork in ethnographic practice essential for the Sound Transit's Central Link Light Rail project (BOAS Project 200005). For it, in addition to the archaeological monitoring and data recovery on prehistoric and historic sites, BOAS interviewed tribal members and defined as a traditional cultural property a series of rock promontories associated with mythological beings and events for the Duwamish people. For researchers interested not only in the results for archaeological work on prehistoric sites and a historic 1930s Hooverville in the Seattle vicinity but also in the integration of TCP and ethnographic studies, the data recovery reports, "Epic of the Winds" TCP National Register nomination form, and "Winds, Waterways, and Weirs" ethnographic study of the Central Link Light Rail route are available here.
In 2006, founder Blukis Onat hoped to sell BOAS and retire, but when that plan fell through she chose to complete the remaining archaeological projects in the next few years and continue ethnographic work with tribal governments. As of 2017, constrained but active, BOAS, Inc., lives.
The collection's most obvious value lies in the diverse topics represented by different projects, most in Washington, including data recovery for sites several thousand years old to those only a few decades old as well as applied ethnography with a number of Northwest tribes. Those interested in following the arc of the discipline of cultural resource management from its first years into the twenty-first century may do so here through close examination of the types of projects and for whom they were completed and of Blukis Onat's narrative history of BOAS, Inc., found in the Processing and Collection Documentation file.
For scholars interested in small businesses, BOAS certified as a Women's Business Enterprise and as an Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business. The narrative history tells tales of small business challenges: second mortgages; financial juggling necessitated by the nature of CRM work that required tremendous capital outlays to hire and equip field crews and sustain office staff sometimes for months before receiving any payment; the founder having to delay or default in paying herself; personnel management; billing overhead; and to the third of her three business lessons: "make sure one has access to loads of money all the time" (Blukis Onat, "BOAS History").
"BOAS History" is not only a narrative history of BOAS, Inc., but also a professional autobiography of Astrika Blukis Onat. It can be found in the Processing and Collection Documentation file.
Intercollegiate athletics at Washington State University are organized as a series of programs, each concerned with a specific type of sport, game or event. Certain sports (football and basketball) are organized around large staffs and organizations and are treated as distinct agencies within the University archives. Other sports are here combined as if one agency.
This group of Medieval manuscripts was acquired by the Washington State University Libraries at different times.
The Spokane Holstein Club was created in 1920. The organization's original members were from Spokane, Washington, and the immediate vicinity, but the group later expanded to include dairy farmers from eastern Washington and northern Idaho.
Glen Adams (1912-2003) was the proprietor and editor of Ye Galleon Press of Fairfield, Washington, which specialized in reprinting rare Pacific Northwest Americana.
The ASWSU (Associated Students of Washington State University) Activities Center serves the university by organizing, directing and generally over-seeing many campus-related student group activities. Administering of student organizations includes constant evaluation and advisement. The Activities Center was established with approval of the Board of Regents in the Spring of 1947 in answer to student and faculty demands. It began operation during the fall semester of that year. The goal of the Activities Center was to enable a joint student-faculty coordination and participation in student and campus life. The student-faculty cooperative effort was to be augmented by a staff of professionals through whose help the Activities Center was "to bring efficiency and direction by coordinating and guiding existing student organizations, by assisting new groups in developing new programs, and by aiding individual students in planning a balanced program of activities." (As observed in a Review of Student Activities Center Program, April, 1948). At the time the Activities Center was organized, most of the social activities and student involvement in campus life were coordinated by living groups. As students' living arrangements gradually became more diffuse, the Activities Center became a more important central focal point coordinating their activities. The Activities Center, therefore, became a place of general guidance, assistance and counseling for student committees and concerns. Furthermore, it became a central repository for committee records where evaluations of past activities could be used for recommendations of procedures for future efforts. In this regard, on an annual basis, evaluations of past activities could be used for recommendations of procedures for future efforts. In this regard, on an annual basis, evaluative reports are filed with the Activities Center so that evaluations of the programs can be made; these reports are filed by Committee Chairmen, as well as by faculty advisors to individual committees. The Activities Center also played a supplemental role in reorganization of the student government. Prior to the formation of the Activities Center, and for some time after it began, the major student government organizational structure was the class governments. However, in time, and especially during the decade of the 1960s, the ASWSU (an organization of all students) superseded the class government system, and the class governments were discontinued in 1968. For the Activities Center this has meant that the role of the students, in directing and actually involving themselves in the workings of the Activities Center, has increased. What was once a joint student-faculty arrangement, in conjunction with professional administrators, has become more of a joint effort between students and professionals.
The department of English Language and Literature first appears in WSU catalogs in 1893. It was later renamed as the English department in 1911.
Joanne Washburn (b. 1937) received a Bachelor of Science in 1959 from the University of Connecticut, followed by a Master of Science from Washington State University in 1963. Both degrees were in Physical Education. She worked at Washington State University for 38 years. She began her career at WSU in 1966 as an instructor in the Physical Education (PE) department. She was promoted to Assistant Professor in 1970, and later to Associate Professor. She served as Assistant Women's Athletic Director and Director of Women's Athletics. She was a faculty member at WSU when Title IX was passed in 1972, and in 1979 she was one of 13 coaches who, along with 39 student athletes, filed a lawsuit against WSU for failing to comply with Title IX (Blair v. Washington State University). She retired in 2004.
Seymour (Si) Williams was a livestock auctioneer in Idaho. He worked sales and auctions in the Pacific Northwest, as well as Illinois, Colorado, and South Dakota.
Harold A. Romberg (d. Jan. 5, 2005) led Spokane's Andre-Romberg Agency (insurance) and served on WSU's Board of Regents from 1967-1979. He was President of the Board in 1970 when student protests occurred at Washington State University in response to U.S. military operations in Southeast Asia and other issues.
A University Architect served as the construction officer at Washington State University from 1911 forward. The modern form of the office dates from 1947 when it became a full-time, staffed administrative department. In 1967 the University Architect office was renamed as Facilities Planning, and then to Facilities Development in 1993. In 2001 it was renamed as Capital Planning (later Capital Planning and Development). While Capital Planning is responsible for major planning and development, smaller projects are conducted by Facilities Operations. Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately, some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question - initially items costing less than $1,000,000 were assigned to Fac Ops, and those costing more to CP. By 2009, this break point is between $1,500,000 and $2,000,000.
The office of Vice Provost for Extended University Services was operational from about 1988 until about 1992. Its function was oversight of a wide variety of off-campus instructional programs, including the founding and initial operation of branch campuses. When the branch campuses came under on-site management, the office of the Vice-Provost was dissolved.
William C. Cusick was born in Illinois in 1842 and emigrated to Oregon while a youth. He had a modest "collegiate" education and worked as a teacher for a time. Most of his adult life he spent as a rancher in the area of the Wallowa Mountains. He began botanical collecting and distribution sometime in the 1870s, encouraged by Harvard’s Asa Gray. Most of his plants came from the area of the Wallowa and Blue Mountains and were arranged in two successive herbariums, one of which he transferred to the University of Oregon, while the second went to Washington State University.
Encouraged by C. V. Piper, Cusick’s second herbarium project included extensive and exhaustive botanical surveys of the area in the two mountain ranges. Unlike his earlier efforts, this second phase did not include large distributions of plants. Cusick died in 1922.
The Independent Board of Representatives functioned to represent independent students and served as a liaison between dormitories and administration. They sought to improve social lives of students and represented what is known as an unaffiliated living group.
Professor Rexford F. Daubenmire (1909-1995) was born in Coldwater, Ohio on December 12, 1909. He attended Butler University, where he earned his bachelor of science degree in 1930. He earned his master's degree in 1932 from the University of Colorado and his doctorate degree from the University of Minnesota in 1935.
Daubenmire began his teaching career as an assistant professor at the University of Tennessee before becoming an instructor at the University of Idaho for ten years, and later a professor of botany at Washington State University for 29 years. Upon his retirement he was made professor emeritus at WSU.
Daubenmire was widely recognized as a leading authority on plant ecology. His early research in the 1950s introduced the concept of potential vegetation into ecological management. He published several articles and textbooks, and won awards from the Northwest Scientific Association, the Ecological Society of America, and the Society of American Foresters. He died August 26, 1995.
Elwood Walter Kalin served as a professor of Horticulture at Washington State University from 1946 to 1983. Kalin was born at Detroit in 1917. He received the Bachelor of Science degree from Michigan State University in 1939, and the Master of Science degree form Purdue University in 1942. In 1953, he was granted the Ph.D. degree from Purdue.
Kalin worked briefly at Purdue and at the University of New Hampshire from 1943 through 1946. His employment at Washington State University began during 1946-47, with assignments that divided his time between an experiment station and classroom work. He continued this arrangement until his retirement in 1983.
Kalin was best known for the floral arrangement shows and classes that he arranged for the public.
Elwood Walter Kalin died at Pullman, WA in 1993.
Based on research conducted by MASC staff, F.C. Spearin appears to be Frederick Crafts Spearin (1865-1942), a flour, grain, and hay dealer in Lynn, MA. One of Frederick’s brothers, Herbert Alonzo Spearin (1857-1933), had moved to Bellingham, WA, and taken up the lumber industry. The letter in the collection is likely addressed to one of Herbert’s sons, probably Emmons Prescott Spearin (1892-1962), who was with the Dental Corps at the Student Army Training Corps in Pullman, WA during this time. A Lena referred to in the letter is likely Emmons’ sister, Lena Myrtle Spearin (188?-1973).
The woman in the photograph, Myrtle Boyer of Spirit Lake, appears to be Myrtle I. Boyer Freeze (1897-1963), who married Walter Freeze (of Palouse, WA) and lived in the Seattle area from 1920 to her death. However, she appears to have never attended Washington State College, and we can establish no connection between her and the Spearins.
An added note on the letter reads “Belongs to Eric Egge, I think. VS.” Eric Egge was a 1919 WSC grad, and the identity of VS is unknown. Nor can we establish a link between Egge and Boyer.
The Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) was created by veterans of the Spanish-American War and the Philippine Insurrection in order to provide assistance and representation for military veterans, which had not been available previously. The VFW has helped establish educational, medical, and legal services to millions of foreign war veterans. Chapters of the VFW can be found all over the United States. (see: http://www.vfw.org/home)
Edwin L. Chalcraft was born on November 13, 1855, on his father's farm near Albion, Illinois, where he lived until his marriage to Alice Pickering on October 13, 1880. The following summer, Edwin, a teacher in the Albion Public School and a county surveyor, and Alice also a school teacher, accepted the invitation of her brother William to visit him in "Squak Valley" (now Issaquah), thirteen miles east of Seattle.
Originally they had planned to stay only for a short visit; but in the spring of 1883 Edwin met Mr. Charles M. Anderson, a. recent graduate of the engineering department of the Territorial University. Anderson and Chalcraft subsequently formed a partnership and opened an office in civil engineering. Meanwhile in Squak Valley the residents learned that Alice had taught school and persuaded her to instruct the very first "Squak Valley" school.
In the summer of 1886, however, the city of Tacoma succeeded in securing the rail terminal for the Northern Pacific Railroad. The ensuing depression in Seattle caused the Anderson-Chalcraft firm to suffer along with other businesses. Then Chalcraft learned of an opportunity to enter the Government Service as Superintendent of the Chehalis Indian Reservation and Boarding School, seventy-five miles southwest of Seattle. Chalcraft had agreed to stay at Chehalis for one year, but worked there until 1889; when he became superintendent of the Puyallup Agency near Tacoma. At Puyallup Chalcraft battled to protect the Indians from the greedy designs of white land grabbers and from the less savory temptations of white civilization.
In 1894 the Agency sent Chalcraft and Alice to superintend the Indian Training school at Chemawa, near Salem, Oregon. Edwin and Alice found Chemawa to be a most congenial place to live and work; but when the Democrats swept into office Chalcraft found through personal experience that political sympathies often outweighed considerations of merit in placing and replacing people in federal jobs. In 1895 the Indian Agency dismissed Chalcraft, without apparent reason other than his Republican political affiliation. Thus Edwin and Alice returned to Seattle, where Edwin resumed his surveying activities. During the years between 1895 and 1900 Edwin surveyed, managed a grocery store and a shingle mill at Mt. Vernon. But in 1900 Republicans under the leadership of William B. McKinley- returned to office and among the people they brought with them were the Chalcrafts. The Agency reinstated Chalcraft then sent him to the Shoshone Reservation in Wyoming. Within a few months the Commissioner appointed Chalcraft to be Supervisor of Indian Schools. In this capacity Edwin was responsible for inspecting the operations of the Indian Schools in their entirety and for evaluating and if necessary correcting any charges of maladministration or wrongdoing.
In 1904, after having traveled throughout the country in discharging his responsibilities, Chalcraft requested and received reassignment to the Salem Indian Training School at Chemawa, Oregon, the place he and Alice liked so well and from which he had been so rudely removed in 1895. Edwin and Alice and their two children lived and worked happily at Chemawa until 1911, when an assistant managed to persuade the Indian Commissioner to remove Chalcraft on the basis of several charges that Edwin was able to prove groundless. Though Chalcraft was able to exonerate himself of these charges, the Agency Commissioner nevertheless transferred him to the James Male Academy in Oklahoma. Chalcraft spent two rather hot and unpleasant years at James Male Academy, but nevertheless admired the abilities of the Indian students there.
In 1914, however, Chalcraft succeeded in getting a transfer to the Siletz Agency in western Oregon. At Siletz Chalcraft pursued the normal duties of Superintendent, teaching, organizing fairs and bands, basketball, baseball and football teams, combatting the evil influence of liquor and generally endeavoring to impart to the Indian students the practical abilities with which to integrate themselves with white society. In 1925, as the time for his retirement approached, Chalcraft recommended to the Indian Commissioner that the Siletz Agency be abolished and its remaining functions integrated with the Chemawa, Agency. In Chalcraft's view, the Agency at Siletz had accomplished its purpose of giving the Indians the practical skills to cope with the white world. The Indian Commissioner complied with Chalcraft's request, and on his birthday, November 13, 1925, Chalcraft and his wife Alice, who had come to Chehalis to stay for a year, retired after forty-one years of service. He and his wife returned to live at their home at 923 Cherry Street in Seattle. Their son, a newspaperman, and their daughter also lived in Seattle.
WSU's Student Health dates to the earliest days of campus, and ran through a small medical facility known as Maple Cottage and then through the hospital building on campus (Finch Memorial, later the Washington Building).
Dr. Laszlo Valko (1907-1982) served as a Professor of Agricultural Economics at Washington State University from 1950 to 1972. Valko was born on June 18, 1907 in Budapest, Hungary. He earned doctoral degrees in law, political science, and economics at Budapest University. After completing his education in 1938, he entered government service, and directed the official social work in Hungarian agriculture until 1944. Valko left civil service and joined the Hungarian Resistance when Nazi Germany invaded and occupied Hungary in 1944. Following World War II, Valko was appointed to lead the Office of Social Administration in Hungary's Ministry of Social Welfare, but stepped down as Soviet influence spread throughout the country in late 1945. In 1946, he served as the director for the Central Institute of Farmers' Co-operatives, and also taught at the University of Szeged. In 1848, after the Hungarian Communist Party took control of Hungary's co-operatives, Valko and his wife, Helena, escaped to Switzerland. They immigrated to the United States a year later.
After a brief tenure at Iowa State University, Valko joined the Washington State University faculty in 1950, and remained a member of the Agricultural Economics Department at WSU until his retirement in 1972. Widely published, translated, and traveled, Valko represented the United States at many co-operative farming conferences worldwide throughout the 1950s and 1960s. After his retirement from WSU, he frequently delivered guest lectures at the invitation of numerous foreign governments.
The functions and duties of the Washington State University President are defined in University Faculty Manual, edition of 1987, as:
In addition to being designated as secretary ex officio of the Board of Regents, the President as general agent of the Board is the chief executive officer of Washington State University. The President administers the policies approved by the Board of Regents, serves as advisor to the Board on policies and operations and is the agent through whom representations to the Board are regularly made. Other functions of the chief executive officer include: Leadership in developing policies and organization for teaching, research, and extension programs. Public administration of the University, including representation before the Legislature and other state agencies. Responsibility for the general welfare of students; the development, operation and maintenance of buildings, lands and equipment; financial matters pertaining to development, operation and maintenance of University; and the administration of regulations adopted by the Board of Regents. Responsibility, delegated by the Board of Regents, for all appointments, promotion, salaries, leaves, resignations, and dismissals. Presiding at meetings of the general faculty.
Charles Clement French was born in 1901 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. French held three degrees in chemistry from the University of Pennsylvania, including a Ph.D. in physical chemistry. In 1925, French married Helen Augusta Black (1902-1976) and they had two children.
He was dean of the college at Randolph Macon College in Virginia, an administrator at Virginia Polytechnic Institute (Virginia Tech), and vice president at Texas Agricultural and Mechanical College (Texas A&M). In 1952 French was selected to be the sixth President of the State College of Washington (which was renamed Washington State University during his term).
French served as chairman of the Western Interstate Commission on Higher Education, and the Washington State Constitutional Revision Commission, as well as being a member of the Board of Trustees for the Century 21 Exposition (Seattle World's Fair). He retired in 1966 and was honored in 1968 with the university's new administration building being named for him. He received honorary degrees from Whitworth College, Pacific Lutheran University, and the University of Punjab. French died in Pullman, Washington in 1988.
Wife of Isaac Stevens (Governor, Washington Territory, 1853-1857).
Sue Glenn Richey was born in 1936 and raised in Lakewood, WA. She was a member of WSC’s Pi Beta Phi sorority from 1954 to 1958, graduating with an Education degree. She passed away in 2017 after 38 years as a school teacher.
The national Pi Beta Phi sorority dates to 1867, while the Washington State University chapter originated on October 3, 1908 as Phi Alpha Epsilon. They affiliated with the national organization (as the Beta Washington chapter) on July 6, 1912.
Wilmer Hall was designed by Stanley Smith, University Architect. Constructed in 1937, it was originally named South Hall. In 1947 it was renamed as Wilmer Hall in honor of Frank J. Wilmer, a former state senator and member of the Board of Regents. It was planned and has been used continuously as a women's residence.
Thomas S. Foley was born at Spokane, Washington, in 1929. He practiced law and worked for the Spokane County Prosecutor from 1957 to 1961, following his education at the University of Washington. From 1961 through 1964 he was on the staff of the Interior Committee of the United States Senate, a position he was introduced to by Senator Henry Jackson. In 1964, Foley won election as the Representative for Washington's Fifth District. Between then and 1994 he won fourteen more elections, ultimately serving in Congress for thirty years. He left Congress after the election of 1994, in which he was unsuccessful.
Foley became Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee in 1974, Majority Whip in 1981, Majority Leader in 1987 and Speaker of the House of Representatives in 1989. He also held other Democratic Party leadership posts in the party caucus and its Steering and Policy Committee. In 1997, he was appointed United States Ambassador to Japan.
Wildey "Bud" Kimball was born in Portland, Oregon on November 23, 1914. He had an early interest in flight, and received his Private Pilot's license on December 20, 1932. He graduated from Stadium High School in Tacoma, WA in 1933. While in college, he became a glider instructor, one of only five certified glider pilots west of the Mississippi River. When World War II broke out, Kimball became a flight instructor at the Twentynine Palms Air Academy in California under contract to the Army. In 1950, Kimball began apprentice training in aerial photography with United Aerial Survey of Sonora, CA. In subsequent years he worked as a flight instructor, an aircraft salesman, a fashion photographer, and a pilot. By 1965, he had logged 9000 hours of flight time in various aircraft. Kimball retired to Ocean Shores, WA.
In 1974, the state of Washington’s legislature authorized an Art in Public Places (AIPP) program, which required that ½ of 1% of building construction funds had to go to art. To deal with selecting and approving this art on campus, in 1975 Washington State University created a Building Arts Committee, which was comprised of faculty, staff, and students.
Dr. Murray Wright Bundy served as the Washington State College English Department Head, three time Phi Beta Kappa President, and an English professor from 1928 to 1956 before he retired. The Bundy Reading Room in Avery Hall is named in his honor.
The College Hill Association formed as a nonprofit organization in 1992 with the goal to revitalize the College Hill district of Pullman, Washington, near the campus of Washington State University. By partnering with student renters and Greek houses, the organization sought to create a community movement to improve the area. The CHA also worked with the WSU administration to cooperate on projects in the area.
Washington State University was founded as the Washington Agricultural College and School of Science in 1890, and became the State College of Washington (colloquially Washington State College) in 1905. It enrolled its first students and began instruction in January of 1892. During its early years the school offered both college courses and non-college courses, the most common non-college program was the Preparatory School, later the Elementary School or Elementary Science program, which was the equivalent of today's high school education.
The Office of the Registrar is responsible for handling student records; the role of the registrar dates to the earliest days of the campus, though the first registrar also served a secretarial role. Today it's responsible for virtually all non-medical student data.
Arthur Johnson enrolled at Washington State College in 1907 and apparently left by 1909, without graduating, when he began teaching in Penawawa, Washington. He eventually worked as a soil scientist for the United States Soil Conservation Service (SCS), a division of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). His work for the SCS during the 1940s resulted in an award for superior service from the USDA.
Men’s physical education at WSU dates to the campus’s first days, while women's physical education began at WSU in 1901. In 1964 the departments of Physical Education for Women (housed in the Helen Smith Gymnasium) and Physical Education for Men were created out of the College of Education. The two departments merged in 1985.
  The statewide organization Washington Women United (WWU) was established in 1979 by Washington State Women's Political Caucus members as an independent unit to replace the services of the defunct Washington State Women's Council. WWU's primary purpose is to promote equal rights through legislative action, education, and networking. Members include individuals and organizations who are advocates of women's rights and proponents of the Equal Rights Amendment. Membership dues and pledges are the basis of support for WWU. The primary activity of WWU is to lobby the Washington State Legislature on issues of especial concern to women such as child care programs, domestic violence, abortion, comparable worth, and education. An annual poll of members determines WWU's position and lobbying priorities and guides its legislative efforts. The group maintains a staff, office, and full-time lobbyist in Olympia, and coordinates a statewide referral and information service on legislative activity. In addition, WWU provides telephone lists, mailing lists, a hot-line telephone service, information on lobbying techniques, news releases on political positions and issues, annual meetings, and six yearly newsletters. The organization also sponsors an annual legislative reception for elected officials which allows women to become acquainted with their legislators.
Officers are elected by and from the Board of Directors, and include: President, First Vice-President, Second Vice-President for Eastern Washington, Third Vice-President for Western Washington.
L.P. Sieg was president, University of Washington, 1934-1946.
Johnson Hall, on the WSU Pullman campus, was built in 1961, with a 1968 extension. It housed Agricultural department and programs, and well as the Computing Center (prior to the IT building), and later the Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles (AMDT) program). Its demolition began in late 2022.
AHA! (Architectural History and Archaeology! LLC) is a women-owned small business, which provides cultural resource services throughout the Pacific Northwest. It began operations in 2014.
The Biomedical Communications Unit (BCU) in the College of Veterinary Medicine dates to at least 1978 and the opening of Bustad Hall, when it housed carrels equipped for auto tutorial instruction and facilities for production and broadcast of closed-circuit television for teaching. In 1981 it added photographic processing to its services. Eventually printing and production became a major part of its role, and it served as one the main campus printing centers for several decades. It was closed at the end of May, 2021.
In 1959 WSC became involved in the JESSI program under the direction of Dr. Harry Batey. It was a joint undertaking between Scientists of Tomorrow and a non-profit corporation of Portland. The program brought approximately 200 high school students to Pullman for science education. The program continued at least until 1965.
The Library Committee of the University Senate was formed to function as liaison between the faculty, students, and the University administration; to study library services and policies including budget matters; and to make appropriate recommendations to the University Senate. Furthermore, the Committee acts at the request of the Senate, the administration, or the Director of Libraries in helping to solve special problems related to the library. The Committee is composed of eight faculty members from the various areas in the University (one being a non-administrative faculty member with the rank of Librarian) serving three-year terms, three students (one of whom is a graduate student) serving two-year terms, and the Director of Libraries (ex-officio). The chairperson is to be elected by the Committee. The Committee is responsible to the University Senate and reports to both the University Senate and the Academic Vice-President and Provost. Prior to the organization of the University Senate in 1971 the committee was a presidential committee called the Library Advisory Committee.
The Grand Coulee Dam is a concrete gravity dam on the Columbia River in Washington State. Construction of the dam began in 1933, and all work including the West Canal was finished by 1955. It was built to produce hydroelectric power and distribute water for irrigation.
The Columbia Basin Project Act was signed in 1943, and provided further authorization for the Grand Coulee. It oversees irrigation for over 650,000 acres of land via the Grand Coulee Dam and a large number of irrigation canals and reservoirs.
Lavon Marion Koger was born in Cove, Oregon, in 1915 to Harlan Alphin Koger and Esther Elva (Trueblood) Koger. He attended Eastern Oregon Normal School and Willamette University before coming to Washington State College (today Washington State University), where he received his Bachelor of Science degree in 1941 and his doctorate in Veterinary Medicine in 1942. Koger married Kathleen J. Conklin in 1942, and then worked as a general practice veterinarian until to 1964, including being the owner and operator of a clinic for nineteen years. In 1964, Koger returned to WSU as an Associate Professor of Veterinary Medicine. Throughout his career, Koger remained an active researcher and developed prostheses for horses. He also served as the president for regional chapters of the American Veterinary Medical Association (Southwest Idaho, Oregon, and Intermountain Western States), as well as a Section Officer of its national organization. Dr. Koger remained at WSU until his death in 1982.
Gift; Homer Jackson Dana; 1950. Hubert Vinton Carpenter was Dean of the College of Mechanic Arts and Engineering (1917-1941) and Director of the Engineering Experiment Station (1919) at The State College of Washington. Materials compiled by Homer Jackson Dana, 17 January, 1950.
H. G. Nelson appears to have been a commercial photographer working out of Hoquiam, Washington during the early twentieth century. These photographs were taken for the Polson Brothers Logging Company, an ITT Rayonier predecessor.
International projects concerned with economic, agricultural, social and educational development began at Washington State University in 1952 with a Pakistan Project that was to run for almost 20 years. The Office of International Programs in the College of Arts and Sciences provided the management for that project and succeeding projects until 1978. The College of Agriculture was heavily involved in the projects and provided increasing assistance. A Campus Coordinator for international projects was established in the College of Agriculture for the University of Jordan Project (1975-1979). The Coordinator's office also acted as a clearing house for other projects in which the University was involved in the middle 1970's, such as those in Syria, Morocco, and Mali. In 1978 the International Program Development Office was established in the Graduate School of WSU to direct the international development projects. At that time the University was involved in several projects, with major efforts in Indonesia, Lesotho, and a cooperative project in Sudan.
By the mid-1980s, three offices--with similar names--were the focus of international programs at the university. The Office of International Programs in the College of Arts and Sciences was concerned with international students and faculty. (This office was subsequently renamed as the International Education Office.) The International Program Development Office in the Graduate School was concerned with development work, while. the International Project Support Office in the College of Agriculture was involved in the administration of projects.
Within the records of these projects some terminological confusion occasionally arises out of the similarity of names of the offices. In addition, there are many references in these records to international development as a subject concerning development in general.
Homer Jackson Dana attended the State College of Washington (now Washington State University) where he completed a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 1915 and a master's degree in 1917. He remained at WSU as an instructor, then returned as a student to complete a second master's degree in mechanical engineering. He continued his association with WSU, first as a consulting engineer, and later as a research engineer until his retirement in 1960. Although his post was as a research engineer, Dana occasionally taught classes, participated in the education of graduate students, and served as director of the Engineering Experiment Station.
Dana's interest in engineering led to a series of experimental projects, including researching the effect of heavy automobile traffic on roads and highways, solving refrigeration and heat transfer and storage problems, and designing the Mason City Project to measure the amount of electricity a community consumed. He was awarded patents for multiple devices, including an emotional stress meter (lie detector) and a prototype home freezer. Together with Hubert V. Carpenter, he founded one of the first educational radio stations in the United States in 1922. The radio station, located in Pullman, WA, was originally named KFAE, becoming KWSC in 1926, and KWSU in 1969.
Hendrik Stephanus Barslaag Jr. (1909-1990) attended the State College of Washington beginning in fall of 1927, and graduated with a B.S. in Hydro-Electrical Engineering in 1932. For most of his career he worked for the city of Tacoma, eventually retiring there as superintendent of the water department.
Archie Van Doren (1910-1986) was born in Del Rio, Washington. He attended WSU for his undergraduate studies and obtained his doctorate in Pomology from Cornell University. He developed controlled atmosphere storage, which allows apples to be stored for up to a year. Dr. Van Doren headed the WSU Tree Fruit Research and Extension Center from 1950-1962.
League of Women Voters of Pullman, in Washington State, was organized in February 1950. In 1952 it became a chartered local league. Each year the League studies and acts on local, state and national governmental issues. The League may take a stand on an issue after careful study, but it never supports or opposes either political party or any candidates. Financial support comes from League programs, membership dues and contributions. In its first two years the League started a survey that focused on local issues. This study resulted in a pamphlet entitled "Know Your Town". In this pamphlet the League promoted greater community action. The goals have remained consistent with those ideas in subsequent years of activity.
The Palouse Conservation Field Station began as a joint project between the United States Department of Agriculture and the State College of Washington in 1931. At that time it was called the Pacific Northwest Soil Erosion and Moisture Conservation Experiment Station. In 1935, the name was shortened to the Soil Conservation Experiment Station. In the following decades, the name shifted back and forth several times to also include the Soil and Water Conservation Research Station and many derivations thereof. In 1961, the name was switched to the Palouse Conservation Field Station. During their tenure, the Palouse Conservation Field Station conducted experiments to produce better farming techniques that would produce less runoff and erosion, and would make more efficient use of water for farming purposes. The Agricultural Experiment Station at the University of Idaho also worked with the U.S.D.A. to conduct experiments in a similar vein.
Hermine Duthie Decker (1908-1996) graduated from Washington State College in 1930 with a speech degree. During her student years at WSC, Decker was the college sweetheart of future journalist Edward R. Murrow. Upon creation of the Old Slocum House Theatre Company in Vancouver, Washington, she became its first president. The company's first play, staged at the Slocum House in 1972, was written by Hermine Duthie Decker and titled, "Esther Short, A Heroic Pioneer Mother."
Hermine Duthie Decker was Head of the Speech and Drama department at Clark College, where she remained until her retirement.
(From the guide to the Kenneth W. Brooks papers, Cage 685)
Architect Kenneth W. Brooks was born in Cedarvale, Kansas in 1917. He received his undergraduate degree in Architectural Engineering in 1941 and a master's degree in Architecture in 1948, both from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He served in the Caribbean with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (1941-1943) and the U.S. Marine Corps (1944-1946).
In 1948 Brooks traveled to Europe on a University of Illinois Francis Plym Fellowship, spending most of his seven-month trip in Sweden working with Sven Markelius, a Swedish city planner and architect.
He moved to Spokane in 1948 and established his architectural practice there in 1951 (Kenneth Brooks, Architect; later Brooks, Hensley, Creager). He became an award-winning urban designer and city planner; one of his most ambitious and noteworthy projects was "A Place in the Sun," an urban design plan for downtown Spokane. He participated very actively in the planning process for Expo '74, the World's Fair held in Spokane in 1974. He designed several major commercial buildings, including the headquarters for Washington Water Power in Spokane, the Rogers-Orton Dining Hall at Washington State University, the Intermountain Gas Company Central Service Facility in Boise, and the art-music-drama complex at Columbia Basin Community College in Pasco, Washington.
Brooks was very active in his profession, frequently presenting papers to local, regional, and national groups on topics in architecture, urban design, transportation planning, and environmental policy.
Edward R. Murrow (1908-1965), the distinguished radio and television journalist, was an alumnus of Washington State College (WSC). Hired by the Columbia Broadcasting System in 1935, Murrow worked for CBS until 1961 and then headed the U.S. Information Agency until 1964. Murrow became known first for his "This is … London" radio broadcasts during the Second World War and then as a television journalist who demonstrated the power of the new medium in his documentaries exposing Senator Joseph McCarthy's red-baiting and later the wretched conditions endured by migrant laborers in the United States. Throughout his lifetime, Murrow acknowledged his alma mater in word and deed, returning to campus to speak and to offer his voice to projects such as the 1952 promotional film "This is W.S.C."
Washington State University recognized the Murrow legacy in eponymous building and program names, lecture series, and awards. In 1973 WSU renamed the home of its communications programs after Murrow when the old Science Hall later Arts Hall connected by a skyway to a new building became the Edward R. Murrow Communications (later Communication) Center. That year also began a panel discussion and lecture series focused on media issues named the Murrow Symposium. The symposium welcomed over the next two and a half decades prominent journalists such as Howard K. Smith, Charles Kuralt, Ted Koppel, and Diane Sawyer. Beginning in 1997, the Murrow Symposium expanded to add recognition of communication leaders through the Edward R. Murrow Award. Sam Donaldson, Ted Turner, Christiane Amanpour, former Murrow colleague Daniel Schorr, and Tom Brokaw are among those to receive the award.
During his college years that began in 1926, Murrow studied radio broadcasting in one of the first courses offered in the nation in that field. He graduated in 1930 with a Speech degree and held in high regard the people and the training at WSC. The Speech Department's broadcasting courses that prepared Murrow were merged in 1964 with the Journalism Department to create the Department of Communications. In 1990 that department became the Murrow School of Communication and in 2008 the Edward R. Murrow College of Communication.
Murrow's lifelong connection to Washington State University was acknowledged again in 1994 when WSU in the Edward R. Murrow Communication Center hosted the dedication of the U.S. postage stamp honoring Murrow's achievements, the first broadcast journalist honored with a commemorative stamp.
Barman's, Inc. was a general merchandise store in Colville, WA. It succeeded F. Barman's Shoes in 1909, and was sold to the Keller hardware store in 1942.
(Sources: Boot and Shoe Recorder, Volume 54; Spokane Daily Chronicle, 1942 December 31)
James R. King (1927-1991) was born in San Jose, California. While earning his B.A. in Biological and Physical Sciences from San Jose State College, King married Eleanor P. Porter (1928-2006) in 1950. He then came to Washington State College, where he received his M.A. (1953) and Ph.D. (1957) with a combined focus in Zoology and Physiology. King became an Assistant Professor in Experimental Biology at the University of Utah, and then returned to WSU as a Professor of Zoophysiology in the Department of Zoology from 1960 until his death in 1991. King Served as Chairman of the Department of Zoology (1972-1978), the President of the Council of the Cooper Ornithological Society (1977-1978), and the President of the American Ornithologists' Union (1980-1982). He was also the recipient of the William Brewster Medal (1974), Fellow of the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation (1969), editor of the journal "Condor" (1965-1968), and among many other publications, he co-edited the multivolume series "Avian Biology" with Donald Farner. In 1979, King received the WSU Distinguished Faculty Award, and the Department of Zoology annually awards a memorial James R. King Fellowship to graduate students.
Mechanical Engineering courses were offered at Washington State College (WSC) from the school’s beginning in the 1890s. In 1917-1918, the Department of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering was incorporated into the College of Mechanic Arts and Engineering during a WSC reorganization. By the time Professor Howard Langdon became department chair in 1933, the College of Mechanic Arts and Engineering had officially separated. Langdon replaced Professor A.C. Abell as Mechanical Engineering department chair following Abell’s sudden death from paralysis on December 31, 1932. Langdon served as chair until 1944.
Prior to his death, Abell had gathered research and taken notes on designing and operating a new power plant for WSC. Both before and after Abell’s death, Langdon contributed to this research. In late 1933, the Mechanical Engineering Department was placed in charge of designing, writing specifications for, and supervising the installation of a new power plant at WSC, replacing the power plant that had heated the campus for nearly thirty years. Langdon served as the Chief Engineer for the design and construction of the new power plant. Funded by the New Deal’s Works Progress Administration (WPA), the power plant began operating on October 25, 1935 and the WPA contract for the project was deemed officially complete on December 1, 1935.
During this same period, two other New Deal programs assisted the Department of Mechanical Engineering. From 1933-1935, selected students received funding to stay at WSC through the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA). The National Youth Administration (NYA) replaced FERA following the 1935 enactment of the WPA. Like FERA, the NYA provided work-study programs for selected college students throughout the United States, including WSC’s Mechanical Engineering students. Both programs intended to prevent students from dropping out of school and flooding the job market. These federal programs helped the Mechanical Engineering department survive the Depression, providing necessary funding for student tuition, jobs, and campus projects.
Frank Fraser Potter (1879-1959) was a member of the faculty at Washington State College from 1912 to 1949. He was WSC's first professor of philosophy. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan, and taught there and at Transylvania University prior to accepting a position at WSC. Upon his retirement from WSC, he was named Professor Emeritus.
Frank Potter and his wife, Irene, were actively involved in the campus community, and for over 25 years they hosted regular Friday afternoon gatherings at their home for students they encouraged to pursue advanced, competitive scholarly opportunities, particularly Rhodes Scholarships; ten of these students became Rhodes Scholars.
The Frank Fraser Potter Memorial Lecture, an annual event at Washington State University, was established shortly after Frank Potter's death through an anonymous donation from one of his former students.
In 1986, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the memorial lectureship, five of the Rhodes scholars who had been assisted and prepared by the Potters returned to Washington State University to participate in the anniversary program. Birdsall Carle, Robert Clower, Paul Craven, Charles Jepson, and Richard Thompson all participated in a symposium, "How Can We Revive the Potters' Ideals Today?"
Thomas Balston was a partner in Gerald Duckworth and Company, the British publisher of the Sitwells'.
Enoch A. Bryan was born in Bloomington, Indiana, on May 10, 1855. He received an A.B. degree from Indiana University in 1878 and an A.M. Degree from that university in 1885. He also received an A.M. degree from Harvard University in 1893. He later received Honorary Doctor of Law degrees from Indiana University (1920), Michigan State University (1907), and Washington State University (1929). Bryan was President of Vincennes University from 1882-1893, after serving as the Superintendent of Public Schools in Grayville, Illinois. He came to the State College of Washington (initially called the Agricultural College, Experiment Station, and School of Science of the State of Washington, and now known as Washington State University) in 1893 and served as its president until 1916, when he became the Commissioner of Education for the State of Idaho, from 1917 to 1923. He had failed in 1916 to attain the nomination for a seat in the United States Senate.
Dr. Bryan returned to the State College of Washington in 1923 and was a professor of economic history until 1939, when he became a professor emeritus. During his lifetime he wrote three books: "The Mark in Europe and America", "The History of the State College of Washington", and "Orient Meets Occident or The Advent of the Railways into the Pacific Northwest". Dr. Bryan died in Pullman, Washington, on November 6, 1941.
Educator, historian, author, Air Force officer, and public servant E. W. Giesecke was born in Portland, Oregon, in 1926. He earned degrees from the University of Oregon and Auburn University.
Glen Adams (1912-2003) was the proprietor and editor of Ye Galleon Press of Fairfield, Washington, which specialized in reprinting rare Pacific Northwest Americana.
The Crimson Circle was chartered at what was then the State College of Washington on March 5, 1912 as a society of students recognizing achievement in the fields of sports, student government, publications, and academics, among others. The group was disbanded in spring 1929 by the campus Discipline Committee, following breaches of conduct and the academic suspension of several members. However, the organization reformed with a new Constitution and a new founding class on February 9, 1931. The Crimson Circle became a chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) on Dec. 12, 1959. Over time the group faded; its last active mention in the student paper was in August, 2000, and its ODK charter was officially recalled on July 1, 2004. On Sept. 15, 2017, an ODK chapter was opened at WSU Tri-Cities.
Roy Roland Gill of Spokane, WA, was Executive Chairman and Secretary of the Columbia Basin Irrigation League during the 1920s. He also served as the president of the Spokane Chamber of Commerce (1922-1923). During his years in Spokane, Gill worked as vice president and general manager of the Holley-Mason Hardware Company.
Thomas H. Cole (1939-1962), received his B.A. in 1958 from the University of Iowa, at which point he came to WSU and worked as a teaching assistant through 1960, presumably while pursuing an advanced degree. He was killed in a car accident in 1962.
Alexander Gustav Martin (1874-1946) was born in London, to an Anglo-German mother, Wilhelmine Frederike Kleinwort Martin (1853-1917) and a German father, Philipp Ludwig Robert Martin (1846-1929). His family was part of a large and prominent community of families of German origin in Champion Hill in south London. As a fairly young boy, A.G. Martin was sent to Switzerland for his health and education, and while there he became interested in preparing for a military career in the Prussian army. His family sent him to Kassel, Germany for specialized education and training. He joined the Prussian army in 1893, and was commissioned as an officer in 1894.
His military assignments included work in foreign service as a military attaché, most notably in Washington, D.C. during the Theodore Roosevelt administration. He served in the German army during World War I, and was taken as a prisoner of war by the Russian army in 1915. He was sent to a prison camp in Siberia, where he remained until December 1916 when he was returned to Germany in a prisoner of war exchange.
Martin served in the German army for 27 years, retiring as a Lieutenant Colonel in the Prussian 6th Dragoons in 1919. After his formal discharge, he joined his family at their home near Konigstein. He and his wife, Andree Richmers Martin, had three children, Gerald, Albert ("Bertie"), and Angela. In 1936, he published a memoir: Mother Country, Fatherland: The Story of a British-Born German Soldier (London: Macmillan, 1936).
Both of his sons, Gerald and Albert, served in the German army during World War II. Alexander Gustav Martin died in Hessen, Germany, in 1946.
The Washington State University Agriculture Research Center (ARC) is a part of WSU’s College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences (CAHNRS). The ARC began in 1892 as the Washington Agricultural Experiment Station, then an element of the Washington Agricultural College, Experiment Station, and School of Science, now Washington State University. Located near Pullman on a farm donated to the state, the station became the site of agricultural instruction and experimental work conducted by the staff of the station and the faculty of the College of Agriculture. It soon extended to branch stations across the state. In 1946 it became part of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences, and in 1965 it was integrated into the newly-organized Agricultural Research Center (ARC) of the College of Agriculture.
Washington State’s commodity commissions are “industry-funded state agencies that promote and fund crop research and/or the marketing of crops.” The commissions are considered governmental agencies as they are state-mandated, but they are governed and funded by growers under the supervision of the state Director of Agriculture. The oldest Washington commodity commission, the Washington Apple Commission, dates to 1937.
Anna Biedel Weitz (1907-1985) was married to Alex L. Weitz and lived in Endicott, Washington where she took on numerous roles in the small town. Primarily, Weitz worked with her husband at his insurance agency where she wrote wills as a German-English interpreter, obtained delayed birth certificates, and performed other miscellaneous duties for her husband's company. Weitz also published the town's weekly newspaper, the Endicott Index, for eight years, and compiled a town history.
The Independent Order of Good Templars originated in the 19th century and is a fraternal organization which promotes abstinence from alcohol and other drugs.
The Washington Cooperative Egg and Poultry Association (also referred to as the Washington Co-Operative Farmers Association) was formed in 1917. The original organization was a collection of cooperatives, including the Whatcom County Egg Producers, the Whidbey Island Cooperative Egg Farms, and the Silverdale Poultry Association, with collaboration from Washington State College's Western Washington Experiment Station. The cooperative became affiliated with the Pacific Egg Producers in 1922, and began publishing the weekly journal "WASHCOEGG" in 1923. The journal transitioned into the "Western Farmer" in 1960, and publishing continued until 1981. During this period, the name of the organization was changed to the Western Farmers Association. The Western Farmers Association was acquired by CENEX in 1981.
Ted Van Arsdol is a freelance writer from Vancouver, WA, with numerous publications, including several books: Battalion from the Mojave: History of the 535th Anti-Aircraft Artillery Battalion; Hanford: The Big Secret; Northwest Bastion: The U.S. Army Barracks at Vancouver, 1849-1916; Desert Boom and Bust: The Story of Irrigation Efforts and Town-building in Benton County, Washington, 1888-1904; and Keeping an Eye on Pasco, 1889-1901.
Prior to the advent of broadcast radio and television, governments looked to other media to communicate information to their citizens. One of the most eye-catching formats is the propaganda poster, the use of which peaked during World War I and remained pervasive through World War II. The U.S. government alone produced an estimated 20,000,000 copies of more than 2,500 distinct posters during the First World War. Through these "weapons on the wall," governments persuaded their citizens to participate in a variety of patriotic functions, from purchasing war bonds to conserving scarce resources. These posters also strengthened public support for the wars by providing "message control" about the government's allies and enemies.
Many terms historically used to describe individuals and communities with disabilities are offensive and were used to dismiss, discount and dehumanize these individuals and communities. Terms often focused on a perceived impairment and not the person. MASC recognizes the harm caused by these terms. We retain the language in this finding aid to document history and preserve context.
Alfred S. Coumbe served in the United States Navy during World War I. Biographical information for Coumbe was not readily available when the collection was processed.
Dr. Donald Greenaway was a Professor in the Department of Hotel and Restaurant Administration at Washington State University. He authored publications about the hotel and restaurant industry, as well as the related subjects of marketing and tourism. He later served as the Director of the Hotel and Restaurant Administration Program and Distinguished Professor Emeritus. In 1981, he received the Howard B. Meek Award from the International Council on Hotel, Restaurant, and Institutional Education.
Originally created in the late 1920s by Washington State University (WSU) President Ernest O. Holland, the WSU Press began as a committee focused on scholarly publishing. In April 1929, the Press distributed its first scholarly journal, Research Studies. This journal became WSU’s primary academic publishing outlet until the mid-1940s. Another scholarly journal was added to WSU Press in 1947, Northwest Science, which originated with the Northwest Scientific Association and had already been established for 20 years prior. Northwest Science is still an active journal with the Press as of 2022.
An influential figure in the history of the Press was University Editor Henry Grosshans, who made sweeping changes starting in the 1950s and remained a dynamic force in the Press until his retirement in 1982. Grosshans helped establish journals such as Poe Studies and ESQ: A Journal of the American Renaissance. He also published the works of authors such as Robert Nilan, Arthur Stabler, and John Cutts.
The Press collaborated with the WSU Museum of Art to publish exhibit catalogs including "Gaylen Hansen: The Paintings of a Decade, 1975-1985". In 1990, WSU Press published the three-volume Centennial Histories as part of WSU’s 100th anniversary celebration. The three books include "Going to Washington State: A Century of Student Life" by William Stimson, "The Crimson and the Gray: 100 Years with the WSU Cougars" by Richard Fry, and "Creating the People’s University: Washington State University, 1890-1990" by George Frykman.
In November 1971, twenty to thirty persons involved in the grape industry met in Prosser to form an organization that would foster the interests of Washington grape producers. This group selected a constitutional committee and a nominations committee. The constitutional committee drafted a document and bylaws patterned after the Washington State Horticulture Association constitution. In December 1971, the group adopted the proposed constitution and elected a slate of officers. Warren Tomlinson was elected the Society's first president. The stated purpose of the organization is "the overall advancement of the grape industry in the State of Washington." During its first year, the Society's membership rose to about 500, which included persons from all aspects of the grape industry. The Society's major projects are the annual "grape school" (used to inform and educate interested persons of the advances in the industry), the "Proceedings" (an annual publication), and funding research on topics of interest to the grape industry.
The International Webern Society was founded in 1962. The efforts of Hans Moldenhauer, a musicologist from Spokane, Washington, and biographer of Anton von Webern, were of considerable importance in bring the organization into being and long played a major role in the Society. The purpose of the organization was to encourage study and performance of the music of Anton von Webern. The organization was managed by officers at various locations, chiefly in the United States. The organization was dissolved in 1990.
Arthur Eilert Drucker was the Dean for the School of Mines and Geology at State College of Washington (now Washington State University) from 1926 to 1945.
Stanley Smith was State College of Washington’s campus architect in the 1920s and 1930s. Smith’s independent architecture firm with Fred G. Rounds designed a number of Pullman area homes and businesses.
Poet.
Roy Gay Adams (1877-1919) of Fairfield, WA, was part of the WSU (then WAC) preparatory (high school) school program from 1899 until he graduated in June of 1902, and then entered college proper and received a B.A. in Agriculture from WSU (by then WSC) in June 1906. He was active in the campus military cadets throughout his time at WSU, advancing to cadet colonel by the time he left. He engaged in a career in agriculture after graduation, including two and a half years as an extension agricultural agent in Adams County. In March 1919, he died after contracting influenza. His three children included Roy M. Adams (1915-1984).
Washington Agricultural College first employed a botanist in 1893. A Department of Botany and Zoology came into existence in about 1895. A separate Botany Department was organized in 1907, and continues to the present (2000AD). The Botany faculty has included many well-known botanical scientists.
Further documentation of the Botany Department can be found at the University Libraries, chiefly in the form of personal papers of various members of the faculty. See also WSU Publications 37.
Carl Immanuel Erickson was a professor of Psychology at Washington State University (WSU). He obtained his B.A. from Iowa State Teachers College and his M.A. and Ph.D. from the State University of Iowa. He was instrumental in forming the WSU (then Washington State College) chapter of Psi Chi. Professor Erickson was national President of Psi Chi from 1938 to 1940.
Psi Chi is an international honor society that seeks to encourage and maintain excellence in scholarship of individual members in all fields, particularly psychology, and to advance the science of psychology.
Source: Psi Chi at WSU Facebook page, accessed May 1, 2020. Wendell Phillips was a 19th-century abolitionist. A University Architect served as the construction officer at Washington State University from 1911 forward. The modern form of the office dates from 1947 when it became a full-time, staffed administrative department. In 1967 the University Architect office was renamed as Facilities Planning, and then to Facilities Development in 1993. In 2001 it was renamed as Capital Planning (later Capital Planning and Development). While Capital Planning is responsible for major planning and development, smaller projects are conducted by Facilities Operations. Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately, some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question - initially items costing less than $1,000,000 were assigned to Fac Ops, and those costing more to CP. By 2009, this break point is between $1,500,000 and $2,000,000.
Three instructional horticulture greenhouses were built on Wilson Road in 1951, between what would become Ensminger Pavilion and the future site of Lighty Hall. The greenhouses were torn down in 2007, and the two-thirds acre site was designated as a Display Garden at the behest of University President V. Lane Rawlins and under the guidance of landscape architecture professor Phil Waite. Design and building of the garden began in 2008 and continued thereafter through class projects in various landscape architecture courses.
William L. Stimson compiled this collection of donated photographs for his published book Going to Washington State: A Century of Student Life. After graduating from Eastern Washington University, Stimson worked as a reporter for the Spokane Chronicle, United Press International and Reuters, and was editor of Spokane Magazine and Universe Magazine. He received his MA and PhD degrees in history from Washington State University, and is employed as a Professor of Journalism at Eastern Washington University.
Born 1905, Professor in Department of English, the State College of Washington (later Washington State University), 1951-1971. Ed. D., State College of Washington, 1951.
The Office of Controller is the main financial office of Washington State University (formally State College of Washington). It receives and disburses all University funds. It is also responsible for keeping a record of all financial transactions and obligations.
While the Washington State University Libraries date to the first days of the college, and while librarians have certainly conducted meetings amongst themselves, the official organization of the Library Faculty in its current incarnation dates to a September 15, 1970 meeting. The groups purpose, as defined at that first meeting, was "to promote the group's professional involvement in the field of library and information science; to provide for the group's active participation in the library and academic affairs of Washington State University; and to fulfill those duties as listed [in] the Faculty Manual as they pertain to the Library." Prior to that, a Staff Association had been created after an August 10th 1946 directive from the Office of the President which recognized professional librarians as "Library Staff" and non-professional library workers as "Office and Technical Staff." Initially the Staff Association filled a role similar to the current Library Faculty group, but by the end of the 1960s its focus had moved more to internal morale and communications.
The Library Faculty Study Committee was established on March 9, 1971 to undertake studies on professional development, faculty review procedures, salary levels, working conditions, and fringe benefits. On February 26th, 1974, the Library Faculty renamed the Study Committee the Library Faculty Affairs Committee (LFAC), and its goals were redefined to monitor, investigate, and report to Library Faculty on University and Library matters which could affect the Faculty, as well as to insure Library Faculty input into matters of concern to the faculty. Additional short-term tasks and projects were initially defined and continued or resolved; early projects included an investigation into breaking the library into departments, and the creation of a library faculty manual.
William A. Inman was born in Limestone County, Alabama, on 22 January 1843. By the time he was five years old, Inman's family moved to Indiana. Within the next few years both parents died leaving Inman homeless. During the next few years, Inman worked as a hired hand for farmers. Relatives from Greene County, Missouri, sent for him and he lived with them until he became an adult. He received an education and also apprenticed in a printer's shop.
When the Civil War broke out in 1861, Inman and his Missouri family sided with the Union. In December 1861, he enlisted in Company H, Phelp's six-month infantry regiment, of the Missouri volunteers. He left this unit the following May and resumed his work in the printing business. In July 1862, Inman again enlisted. This time he became a member of the Eighth Missouri Volunteer Cavalry's Company K. Inman rapidly moved up the officer ranks as he participated in the Battle of Pea Ridge, which cleared Confederate forces from Missouri and achieved Union control of Arkansas, and the Battle of Prairie Grove, which kept northwest Arkansas under Union control. Finally, he participated in the Union siege of Little Rock, Arkansas. Inman resigned in October 1864, in Arkansas, as a captain.
From 1866 through 1868, Inman was a superintendent and agent for the Freedmen's Bureau in Craighead, Green, and Poinsett counties of Arkansas. In his spare time, he read law. In June 1867, Inman was admitted to the bar in Jonesboro, Arkansas. In 1868, he was appointed prosecuting attorney of the 3rd Judicial Circuit, at Batesville. Six years later, Inman moved to Seattle, Washington Territory. Inman practiced law in Washington. He moved from Seattle to Port Townsend in 1877 and then to Colfax two years later. He lived in Colfax for the next forty-five years, making a long and eventful career as a member of the legal profession. By 1880, Inman was elected probate judge and served until the position was abolished in 1890. He also served as city clerk for Colfax and director and clerk of the district school. He was elected prosecuting attorney for Whitman County in 1898.
Judge Inman was a member of several fraternal organizations: the Order of United Artisans, the Grand Army of the Republic, the Ancient Order of United Workmen, and the Independent Order of Odd Fellows. Of these, he attained the ranks of grand master of the United Workmen; vice commander of the department of Washington, G.A.R.; and all the offices in the I.O.O.F. In other activities, Inman served as an officer in the Colfax Congregational Church and as president of the Whitman County Bar Association. In politics, he was a Republican. Judge Inman married twice: to Hannah Crosson, in April 1865 (she died in 1900); to Mrs. Margaret M. Donnelly, in March 1901. He had five children by his first wife. Inman died on 11 August 1924, eight months after he suffered a stroke. His second wife and three of his children, Maggie Jane Inman Blair, William C. Inman, and Frank Inman, survived him.
The Irrigation Experiment Station was authorized by the state legislature in 1917, and opened at Prosser, WA on May 24, 1919. In 1965 the name was changed to the Irrigated Agriculture Research and Extension Center (IAREC).
Leaders of the Allied nations met in late November, 1943 to make plans for their alliance. Franklin D. Roosevelt of the United States, Winston Churchill of Great Britain, and Chiang Kai-Shek met in Cairo to discuss efforts against Japan; the Soviet Union did not attend as they were not then at war with Japan. Several days later, Roosevelt, Churchill, and Joseph Stalin of the U.S.S.R. met in Tehran, the first meeting of the ‘big three’ Allied leaders. The major outcome of the meeting was the opening of a second front against Nazi Germany.
Continuing education has been defined variously. As a specific effort, aside from content, continuing education takes the form of off-campus classes, correspondence course, recorded instructional materials, special short courses or workshops, and so on. In one form or another Washington State University has been involved in continuing education since its inception. Early efforts were chiefly concerned with agriculture. The nature of these programs changed considerably after the establishment of the Agricultural Extension Service in 1915. In later years an engineering extension program was added, along with general extension, the last dating from 1921. General Extension's effort mostly nearly resembled continuing education as commonly defined.
In the late 1940s, the State College initiated various efforts at off-campus classes, taught chiefly at night. These "branches" were informally known as "Little WSCs." The program at Spokane was the most extensive. It survived in limited form following fiscal cutbacks in 1951 that basically cancelled the larger effort, with a program of night classes that lasted until 1968.
In the years following 1970, distance classes, video-tape instruction and similar programs led to the re-establishment of off-campus classes in various cities around Washington, and even one in an out-of-state location. These classes all involved special subjects, mainly technical, and often were presented at the request of employers. In the years 1977-80, these programs became involved in complex state wide educational planning effort and in so-called "turf wars" that arose as schools with low enrollment sought to deploy their excess faculty members in extended campus programs.
According to the Washington State University (WSU) Faculty Senate web page (as of August 2012), "The mission of the Faculty Senate is to exercise the legislative powers delegated to it, and to make recommendations to the president and appropriate administrative officials of the University and through the President to the Board of Regents on matters affecting the general welfare of Washington State University and its educational, research, and service activities."
On April 12, 1971 WSU's Board of Regents approved the creation of a University Senate, which included undergraduate and graduate student representation, as well as faculty. The Senate originally arose out of student/faculty conflicts in the turbulent 1960s/1970s, and was intended as a place where faculty and student could cooperatively engage on legislative matters. On June 3, 1983, undergraduates were officially removed from the group, and the University Senate became the Faculty Senate.
The Fortune Press, originally named Fortune and Merriman, was founded in 1924 by Reginald Ashley Caton (1897-1971) in London, England. From the beginning, Caton encountered legal copyright conflicts with Nonesuch Press in 1925 and 1926. Although the case was not ultimately taken to court, in 1934 Caton faced trial when ten of his books were condemned for obscene libel.
Timothy d'Arch Smith (1936- ), assistant and later owner of Fortune Press from 1970 to 1971, blamed Caton's lack of success on his poor distribution. Early 20th century antiquarian booksellers described his books as "curious," many of them involving violence, poverty, "amatory unorthodoxy," and other obscenities. Until its closing in 1971, the Fortune Press published more than 600 books under the efforts of Caton.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
The departments which became the College of Engineering at Washington State University were in place when the school opened in 1892, with the first graduates in 1897. In 1946, a reorganization established the Washington State Institute of Technology as the entity which included the academic departments as the College of Engineering, the School of Mines, the Division of Industrial Research and the Division of Industrial Service. The Institute was again reorganized in July 1966 into a College of Engineering with academic departments, a Research Division and a Technical Extension Service. In June of 1969 the Mining Engineering Department was absorbed into the Materials Science and Engineering Department. The Office of the Dean in 1981 consisted of the Dean of Engineering who oversaw all the College activities, the Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies, Associate Dean for Instruction, Assistant Dean for Facilities and Planning, and Assistant Dean for Extension.
The roots of the U.S. Forest Service date back to 1876 and the position of Special Agent in the Department of Agriculture. After a period of growth and transition in names and responsibilities, the U.S. Forest Service was officially created in 1905. The department's primary responsibility it eh management of the country's forest reserves.
Phillip Jacobson, b. 1928, studied architecture at Washington State University, graduating in 1952. He worked with architectural firms in the Seattle area in the following years, chiefly with TRA, a firm in which he was a principal partner. From 1965 forward he also held a position at the University of Washington. His interests spanned a wide range, from construction management to urban planning and interior design. In 1973 he was named a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects.
In 1954 Arden Jacklin, George Royes and Dwight Hopkins incorporated the Merion Blue Grass Association in Oregon. The purpose of the Association was to promote, advertise and educate the public in the "use and desirable features of" Merion Blue Grass, thereby increasing its consumption. The Association was a non-profit organization. It met annually in Oregon or Washington to discuss and further its business, and conducted public relations through an office in New York. The Merion Bluegrass Association was dissolved in 1989. The balance of the Association's funds were donated to the Ralph Engel Turfgrass Scholarship Fund at Rutgers University.
John Albert Hartman (1892-1983) played college baseball at WSC from 1913-1916, earning the nickname Babe. After schooling, he played professional baseball on the west coast for six teams in the Coast, Northwest, and Western leagues. In the 1930s he settled in Dinuba, CA, as a draftsman, and spent most of his life there, continuing to play baseball until the age of 52.
Joseph Anthony McIntosh (1951-) grew up in Billings, MT, and played college baseball at WSU, graduating in 1973 with a BS with distinction in Zoology. He was drafted by the San Diego Padres, and played for them in the major leagues in 1974 and 1975. After his baseball career, he received a Law Masters from New York University.
Elwyn Kechley (1910-2008) was the son of the Rev. E.L. Kechley and Luella (Henderson) Kechley of Nebraska. He attended school in Chehalis, WA, and graduated from Washington State College in 1934. During his years at WSC, he worked on cruise ships as part of a band or orchestra.
Alan Gabriel Barnsley (1916-1986) was a physician and author who wrote under the pseudonym Gabriel Fielding. He was born in England in Hexham, Northumberland. He attended Trinity College at the University of Dublin (B.A., 1940), and studied medicine at St. George's Hospital in London. He wrote several novels including the one discussed in the letters in this collection, The Birthday King (1962). He served on the faculty of the Washington State University English Department beginning in 1966, attaining the rank of Professor. He retired from WSU in 1981.
The Regents Hill complex was built in 1952 and houses approximately 400 women each year. It consists of two dormitories, Barnard and McGregor, and a dining hall, Stearns. Traditionally, the hall government is very active and works to establish vibrant hall spirit and togetherness within the community.
WSU’s first African-American Heritage House was created in 1975, in the old Regional School Laboratory located adjacent to Cleveland Hall. In 1996 the center was renamed as the Talmadge Anderson Heritage House and moved into Cleveland Hall, and the old facility demolished. In 2007-2008 the university renovated three historic houses in the College Hill neighborhood, each for a different community of color: African/African Americans (Talmadge Anderson Heritage House (935 B St.)), Chicano/Latinos (Casa Latina (955 B St.)), and Native Americans (Native American Cultural House (975 B St.)). One for Asian/Pacific Islanders (Asian Pacific American Cultural House (905 C St.)) followed not too much later.
The Elson Floyd Cultural Center, opened in 2017, was planned to take the place of these four Heritage Houses, but no space was allocated for them in the final plans. The four houses were sold ca. 2020-2021, and their collections and holdings were repurposed or discarded.
Jeff Zenick was born in 1956 to American parents living in Paris. When he was two years old, he and his parents relocated to the Washington, D.C. suburbs in Maryland. In several interviews, Zenick credited his troubled childhood and teenage years with sparking his love of drawing. After graduating from high school in Maryland, he traveled extensively through the United States, drawing (mostly portraits, nature and urban scenery) and working odd jobs to support himself. As of 2015, Zenick resides in Tallahassee, Florida and is still very active in the small press community, appearing at conventions and selling his art in a variety of brick-and-mortar stores and online.
The WSU Foundation was established in 1979 for the sole purpose of promoting and raising financial support for WSU and its programs. The WSU Foundation is still around as of 2021 and has raised $1.7 billion to that date to support WSU since its conception.
The president is the chief executive officer of the multi-campus Washington State University system and reports to a 10-member Board of Regents.
As the University’s leader, the president collaborates with a wide range of internal and external stakeholders to define the vision and set the direction for the institution. As the champion of its reputation, the president articulates the strategic goals and messages of the University in order to build broad support for and ownership of WSU’s aspirations among its many constituents, including faculty, staff, students, alumni, the Board of Regents, the WSU Foundation, local communities, government, business, and industry leaders statewide, the media, and the general public. Samuel (Sam) H. Smith was selected by the Board of Regents on March 7, 1985, to serve as the institution’s 8th president. He took office at age 45 on July 1, 1985, and served for 15 years.
The Biomedical Communications Unit was a part of the College of Veterinary Medicine that began in 1948. Their purpose was to provide medical photography so that the College could qualify for full accreditation. In June of 2021, the BCU closed its doors.
The J. E. Love Company, originally the Hume-Love Company, was founded in 1932 by James E. "Ed" Love and Horace D. Hume. Located in Garfield, Washington, the company produced specialized agricultural equipment to more effectively harvest dry peas. Through the production of equipment such as the flexible floating cutterbar, windrower header, and the green crop loader, the company expanded its market to the harvesting of green peas, lentils, and soybeans. After establishing a second manufacturing facility in Mendota, Illinois, Hume and Love divided the company into two separate enterprises, with the H. D. Hume Company in Illinois, and the J. E. Love Company remaining in Washington. In addition to the several products developed over the years, the J. E. Love Company has also expanded into forestry and vineyard equipment.
Environmental Health and Safety is a non-academic service department dedicated to promoting and supporting the university’s efforts to protect human health, safety and the environment.
Cyrus Bradley's autobiography, prepared in 1893 for Hawthorne's History of Washington gives this account of John Bradley: "His father, the late Captain John Bradley, was the owner and commander of the steamer Lawrence, which did active service during the war of the Rebellion, on the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers and other Southern waters. At the age of twelve years, young Cyrus removed with his parents to their home near Dayton, Ohio, and remained there until the death of his father, four years later [i.e. 1868]." [Typescript account, Box 9 Folder 48, Cyrus Bradley Papers, 1882-1915 (Cage 243) Manuscripts, Archives, and Special Collections, Washington State University Libraries, Pullman, WA.]
Shirl O. Graham was born in Lincoln, Nebraska in 1918 and remained there until graduating in botany from the University of Nebraska in 1941. After serving as an Army officer in the South Pacific, Graham worked with the Washington State Department of Agriculture in Olympia and Prosser from 1948 to 1950, and then entered the WSU Plant Pathology department's graduate program as a Research Assistant in 1951. On completing his doctorate in 1954, he was hired as an Assistant Professor and rose to Professor in 1968, serving in that rank until his death in 1976. Dr. Graham taught all levels of Plant Pathology courses, and conducted research in various biochemical aspects of plant diseases especially the fungus disease anthracnose, bean viruses, and fruit tree nutrition disorders. He was credited with being co-discoverer of an anti-viral antibiotic, phytoactin.
The Department of Business Administration formed a Teaching Evaluation Committee in 1969. Its purpose was to develop a standardized evaluation form which would allow students to rate the quality of the department's instruction. The committee was composed of faculty, graduate and undergraduate students. Dr. C. Obert Henderson chaired the committee.
Washington State University's Beta Omega chapter of the national Delta Gamma sorority was established in 1946. They were initially housed at 906 Thatuna (as of 2013 this location is the parking lot northwest of the old Bookie), and in 1949 moved to a newly constructed building at 603 Linden (Pullman's address system changed in 1972, at which point 603 Linden became 715 Linden). The building was renovated circa 1995, and as of 2013 Delta Gamma remains in that house.
Paul Louis Beckett, Professor of Political Science at Washington State University from 1947 to 1977, was born October 18, 1913, in Warren County, Illinois. He completed a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1935 at Monmouth College, a Master of Arts at the University of Illinois in 1938, and a Doctor of Philosophy at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1949.
During the early 1940s Beckett was employed in municipal government in Los Angeles and also worked in a war-time administrative agency in Washington, D.C. From 1945 to 1947 he was a member of the faculty of the University of New Mexico, and in 1947 he joined the Political Science faculty of Washington State College. His field of special expertise was municipal government; his interests and research also included the politics of organization and reorganization, individual and group behavior in organizations, decision making, leadership and authority, communication, and how to ensure administrative responsiveness and responsibility.
During the 1950s, a time when many colonized countries in the Middle East gained independence, Beckett actively participated in the establishment of municipal governments while teaching at the American University in Beirut. In 1952, Beckett, his wife, and their two young children traveled to Beirut, where he established the Department of Political Science at the American University and taught the history and fundamentals of municipal government.
After returning from Beirut, Beckett extended his administrative duties at Washington State College, serving as chair of the Department of Political Science for eight years. In 1957 he was a public administration consultant to the planning board of the Pakistani government.
In addition to his teaching and administrative activities, Beckett was also an active member of the American Political Science Association, the Pacific Northwest Political Science Association, The American Association of University Professors, and the American Society for Public Administration.
[From the guide to the Catherine May Congressional Papers, Cage 304):
Catherine May was born Catherine Dean Barnes at Yakima, Washington, in 1914. Graduating from Yakima High School in 1932, she attended Yakima Valley Junior College through 1934, and then received the Bachelor of Science degree in 1936 and the Fifth Year Education Certificate from the University of Washington in 1937. From 1937 through 1940, she taught English in the Chehalis High School, interrupting this tenure for a brief period in 1939 to study speech at the University of Southern California.
At the close of the school year in 1940, Mrs. May entered into a career in radio journalism and advertising, first with station KMO in Tacoma, and later stations KOMO and KJR in Seattle. From 1942 to 1944, she worked in advertising for Strange and Prosser Advertising Agency and the Federal Insurance Company, both of Seattle. She was in New York City 1944-1946 in the employment of the National Broadcasting Company. Following this, Mrs. May returned to Washington State, continuing in radio journalism at station KIT in Yakima through 1957.
Catherine May entered politics actively when she was a candidate and elected to the Washington State House of Representatives in 1952, representing a Yakima district. Re-elected twice, she remained a member of the state legislature until 1958, when she secured the Republican nomination to succeed retiring Republican Congressman, Otis Halbert Holmes. She was elected to the United States Congress six times and served until 1970 when she was succeeded by Democrat, Mike McCormack. Upon leaving Congress, she was appointed one of the Federal government trustees of the quasi-public National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK). In May of 1971, President Richard Nixon appointed her a member and Chairman of United States Tariff Commission.
When Catherine May entered the United States Congress in early 1959, she was the first woman Representative from the State of Washington. Also, she was the first Representative from the State of Washington in quite a few years to be appointed to the Committee on Agriculture, an assignment that is highly desired by Representatives from Washington State. Mrs. May held this Agriculture Committee assignment during her entire tenure in Congress. Work in this committee, and her efforts on behalf of her constituents, occupied the center of attention throughout her congressional career. Partially due to this concern with agricultural policy, May was selected as a Congressional member of the National Commission on Food Marketing, one of the numerous "study commissions" of the 1960's. During her last term in office, she received a second committee assignment, the Joint committee on Atomic Energy. She was, lastly, a member of the somewhat ephemeral but nevertheless interesting, House Beauty Parlor Committee.
Although Representative May's attention centered on her committee and constituent work, her career was not dominated by either of these. Like most members of Congress in the 1960's, she was involved in almost every major public issue of the time. Her papers reveal significant interests in consumer affairs, the "hunger" and poverty issues, transportation policy, drugs, minority relations, and, on occasion, foreign affairs. The return of a Republican administration to power in the 1968 election increased May's contact and concern with the whole range of governmental and public affairs. She was one of the congressional leaders that supported the administration. She was apparently considered for the post of Secretary of Agriculture at the time the Nixon Administration was organized. After leaving Congress, she continued to receive significant appointments, including United States Tariff Commissioner, a position of importance to the economic issues of the early 1970's.
Verle G. Kaiser was born in 1911. In 1922 his family traveled west from North Dakota and settled on a dairy farm near Cheney, Washington. After graduating from high school, Mr. Kaiser attended Cheney State Normal School and the Washington State College at Pullman. In 1933 he graduated with a Bachelor of Science in agriculture, and in 1934 completed an engineering degree. Before and after his engineering studies he worked for the Soil Erosion Service. Subsequently, he worked as an agronomist a district conservationist, and an area conservationist in western Washington and northern Idaho. In 1955 he became the Agronomy specialist for Washington, Idaho, and Oregon.
Kaiser was best known for his expertise in conservation problems in the Palouse. His articles have appeared in Northwest Science and in Journal of Soil and Water Conservation; he also contributed to technical bulletins of the agricultural experiment stations in the Pacific Northwest. Mr. Kaiser's work for the soil conservation service has added to the technical guides and conservation handbooks for the Palouse area. Before and after his retirement in 1972, Mr. Kaiser undertook consulting assignments for the Development and Resources Corporation in Iran, Nicaragua and Columbia. Kaiser also campaigned to have the United States Department of Agriculture adjust its programs to meet the conservation needs of the Columbia Plateau region. Kaiser died in Spokane County, Washington, in 1982.
A.V. Woodward was a dog breeder, Winona, Minnesota.
Courses in economics have been offered at Washington State University since the school was first opened in 1892. The original Department of Economic Science and History was incorporated into the College of Sciences and Arts in 1917 and it became the Department of Business Administration in 1926. Composed of five faculty members, the department offered, in addition to the regular economics courses, a thorough program in Secretarial Science. The staff increased to fifteen in 1928 and in the same year Business Administration was elevated to the status of a "school," although it functioned within the College of Sciences and Arts until 1940 when it was given independent status. Economics continued as a separate department in the College of Sciences and Arts until the two disciplines were merged in 1948 by Dr. M. W. Lee into the School of Economics and Business. It was given college status in 1963 with Dr. Eugene Clark functioning as the first dean. More recently the name was changed to the College of Business and Economics.
The Union Center Goodwill Club was a rural women's club located in Whitman County, Washington. According to the club's by-laws, they met the first and third Thursday of each month and had a President, Vice President, and Secretary-Treasurer. Their dues were $1.00 a year, and the club elected a flower and card committee that were used in times of member hospitalization, funerals, birthdays, and Christmas. The club also provided members with bridal or wedding showers, baby showers, and a hankie shower upon leaving the club.
In fall of 1974, the Washington State University Women’s Center open on campus in the Compton Union Building. Their goal was to provide a place where students, staff, and faculty could gather in a non-sexist environment. They initially offered a lending library, resources for locating and selecting local medical, social, and professional support, and hosted series of speakers and programming. In fall of 1988, it was combined with the Office of Programs for Women and reconstituted as the Women’s Resource and Research Center. In 1993 it was renamed Women’s Resource Center.
Edward Bennett (1927-2013) was born in Dixon, Illinois, to John Francis and Marguerite Marion Moore Bennett. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in History from Butler University in 1952, and received both his Masters and Doctorate in History from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, in 1956 and 1961 respectively. Dr. Bennett came to Washington State University as a Professor of History in 1961 after briefly serving as an instructor at Texas A&M. During his time at WSU, he served as chair of the Norman and Laura Graebner Prize committee for the Society of Historians of American Foreign Relations, held a position on the executive council of the Pacific Coast Branch of the American Historical Society, and received the WSU Faculty of the Year Award in 1979. Between 1967 and 1970, he also served as President of the Faculty Representatives for the Pacific-8 Athletic Conference (today the PAC-12), and was appointed to the Theodore Roosevelt Awards Committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Dr. Bennett was one of ten American scholars selected by the American Historical Association and the American Council of Learned Societies to work with scholars from the U.S.S.R. in an cooperative examination of the two nations' relations in 1985. Dr. Bennett authored and co-authored eight books on American diplomatic history, and following his retirement in 1994, created the Edward and Margery Bennett Scholarship for graduate students studying diplomatic history in the Department of History at WSU.  Sue Durrant was born in Salt Lake City, UT in 1937. She earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Utah (1959), a master's degree from Washington State University (1962) and a Ph.D. from The Ohio State University (1976).
Durrant joined the faculty at Washington State University in 1962. She served as the head coach for women's volleyball from 1962 to 1975, as the instructor for the Fish Fans synchronized swim group from 1962 to 1968, and as head coach for women's basketball from 1971 to 1982. In addition to her coaching and teaching duties, Durrant was instrumental in implementing the provisions of Title IX at Washington State University, serving on numerous committees. She helped establish the Northwest College Women's Sports Association (NCWSA) and was its president in 1970-71. This organization became Region IX of the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW). Title IX, passed in 1972, guaranteed women equal access to athletic opportunities. In 1978 Durrant became one of the lead plaintiffs in the case Blair v. WSU, in which student athletes and faculty members sued the university for equal opportunities for women. The case was tried in 1982. The initial decision, though in favor of the plaintiffs, exempted football from the calculations. This decision was appealed to the WA state Supreme Court. The Supreme Court ruled in 1987 that football must be included.
In 1983 Durrant became the first delegate from Washington State University to the Bryn Mawr Institute for Women in Higher Education Administration. From 1986 to 1989 she served as faculty representative to the state legislature in Olympia, and in 1986-1987 she was president of the Association for Faculty Women (AFW) at WSU. From 1990 to 1992 she served as chair of the Washington Council of Faculty Representatives. In 2001 she became the first recipient of the Samuel H. Smith Leadership Award, given by the AFW in recognition of her many years of dedication to the advocacy of equal status for women in the university.
Sometimes called the "grandfather of Chicano poetry," Ricardo Sánchez was a professor of creative writing and Chicano studies at Washington State University from 1991 until his death in 1995. He was born March 29, 1941 in El Paso, TX and raised in a neighborhood called "El barrio del diabolo." After serving in the U.S. Army he was convicted of armed robbery and sent to prison. In 1969, he received a Ford Foundation sponsorship as a Frederick Douglass Fellow in Journalism and in 1970 was employed as a staff writer and humanities instructor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
He earned his Ph.D. in American Studies and cultural linguistic theory in 1974, at the Union Graduate School in Cincinnati, Ohio. Subsequently, Dr. Sánchez worked at El Paso Community College (1974), the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee (1977), and the University of Alaska (1979). From 1977 to 1980 he was an assistant professor at the University of Utah Ethnic Studies Center. At WSU, he was a member of the faculty in both the English Department and the Department of Comparative Cultures, achieving full professorship with tenure in early 1995.
His works include Canto y grito mi liberación (y lloro mis desmadrazgos...) : pensamientos, gritos, angustias, orgullos, penumbras poéticas, ensayos, historietas, hechizos almales del son de mi existencia... (The 1995 edition includes poems written during Dr. Sánchez's tenure at WSU); Amerikan journeys = Jornados americanos (1994); Dr. Sanchez' all-you-can-eat poetry buffet, or, Lentils of revolution (1994); Selected Poems (1985); Amsterdam Cantos y Poemas Pistos (1983); Brown Bear and Honey Madness. Alaskan Cruising Poems (1981); and Milhuas Blues and Gritos Nortenos (1978).
Dr. Sánchez died of cancer on September 3, 1995.
[Some biographical information was obtained from: Barceno, Roberto (compiler). "Ricardo Sanchez, Ph.D." (http://www.dr-ricardo-sanchez.com/bio.html).
Jack David Rogers (b. 1937) is a plant pathologist who spent his career at Washington State University. Rogers was born in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, and earned his Bachelor of Science degree from Davis and Elkins College in West Virginia in 1960. Because of a cooperative program between Davis and Elkins College and Duke University, Rogers was also granted a Master of Forestry degree from Duke in 1960. He then received a Ph.D. in Plant Pathology from the University of Wisconsin in 1963. Rogers began working at WSU in 1963 as an assistant professor and rose to the rank of full professor by 1985.
Over his career Rogers was one of the country's most eminent mycologists, collaborating with numerous scientists across the world and was invited to lectures across Europe, advising over 30 graduate students. He has published hundreds of articles. He even has a fungus named after him: Poroleprieuria rogersii. He was named a WSU Regents Professor (2007) and was recognized with the WSU Eminent Faculty Award (2006), the highest honor a faculty member can receive at WSU. Among his many other awards is the WSU Library Excellence Award (2005). Rogers retired in 2013, after 50 years of service.
The organizational role of the Washington State University News and Information Service, sometime known by its former name of News Bureau, was to provide media agencies with informational stories concerning all aspects of university activities. These activities involve students, faculty, and staff that have contributed newsworthy accomplishments while connected with Washington State University. The activities are divided into general sports and news releases. A number of university-related activities are covered by the WSU News Bureau. These include information files about individuals who have worked for Washington State University, sports and news releases for each year that extensively cover athletic-oriented activities, workshops, conferences, organizational groups, concert series, committees, speeches, theatrical productions, referendums, initiatives, as well as correspondence files and back-to-school stories. Over the years there have been a large number of editors of this organization: Alice Webb (1920s), Herbert Jenkins (1930s), Maynard Hicks (1940s & 1950s), Dennis Morrison (1950s & 1960s), and Richard Fry (1970s & 1980s). Since the 1980s, the director has been Barbara Petura, with Al Ruddy, Sue Hinz and others serving as writers and editors. Other records are located at the WSU Libraries as record group Archives 65, WSU News Bureau releases from 1918 to 1977 and WSU 115, news releases from the early 1920s, located with University Publications. Archives 333 is a subsequent collection of WSU News Subject files.
A University Architect served as the construction officer at Washington State University from 1911 forward. The modern form of the office dates from 1947 when it became a full-time, staffed administrative department. In 1967 the University Architect office was renamed as Facilities Planning, and then to Facilities Development in 1993. In 2001 it was renamed as Capital Planning. While Capital Planning is responsible for major planning and development, smaller projects are conducted by Facilities Operations. Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately, some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question - initially items costing less than $1,000,000 were assigned to Fac Ops, and those costing more to CP. By 2009, this break point is between $1,500,000 and $2,000,000.
Many terms historically used to describe individuals and communities with disabilities are offensive and were used to dismiss, discount and dehumanize these individuals and communities. Terms often focused on a perceived impairment and not the person. MASC recognizes the harm caused by these terms. We retain the language in this finding aid to document history and preserve context.
Stéphane Mallarmé was a painter, art critic, Bloomsbury group member and founder of the Omega Workshops.
Thomas L. Gannon was a woodworker in Spokane, Washington.
The functions and duties of the Washington State University President are defined in University Faculty Manual, edition of 1987, as: In addition to being designated as secretary ex officio of the Board of Regents, the President as general agent of the Board is the chief executive officer of Washington State University. The President administers the policies approved by the Board of Regents, serves as advisor to the Board on policies and operations and is the agent through whom representations to the Board are regularly made. Other functions of the chief executive officer include: Leadership in developing policies and organization for teaching, research, and extension programs. Public administration of the University, including representation before the Legislature and other state agencies. Responsibility for the general welfare of students; the development, operation and maintenance of buildings, lands and equipment; financial matters pertaining to development, operation and maintenance of University; and the administration of regulations adopted by the Board of Regents. Responsibility, delegated by the Board of Regents, for all appointments, promotion, salaries, leaves, resignations, and dismissals. Presiding at meetings of the general faculty.
Wilson Martindale Compton was born in Wooster, Ohio and attended the College of Wooster and earned a Ph.D. in economics from Princeton University as well as a law degree. In 1916, he married Helen Harrington, and later had four children together. Compton became President of the State College of Washington in 1945, and remained in that position until 1951. His presidency saw creation of the College Senate, a first Faculty Manual, and establishment by the faculty of general education requirements in the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences for all students, as well as honors at graduation. In April of 1951, in the midst of difficult financial times due to state budget cuts, the Board of Regents ended the Compton presidency. After he left WSU, Compton was Director of the International Information Administration (IIA), the forerunner of the United States Information Agency (USIA), within the Department of State. He died in 1967.
English author and artist associated with the Bloomsbury Group.
Author Evelyn Johnson Hawes (1915-1994) was born in Colville, Washington to W. Lon Johnson and Iva (Dickey) Johnson. She attended Washington State University and the University of Washington, receiving her bachelor's degree from UW in 1936. Hawes was a faculty member at several institutions, including the University of Washington, the University of Cincinnati, Canisius College, Amherst Central Adult School, and the State University of New York at Buffalo. Hawes' published works include many articles and stories, and several books: They Also Serve (1943), Proud Vision: The History of the Buffalo General Hospital, The First Hundred Years (1964), The Happy Land (1965), Boys Are All Right, But…(1965), A Madras-type Jacket (1967), and Six Nights a Week (1971). (see Cage 226)
William Lon Johnson (1882-1967) served as an attorney in Colville, Washington, a Senator in the Washington State Legislature, the Lieutenant Governor of Washington State, and a Superior Court Judge for the state of Washington from 1913 to 1958.
Dr. Maurice Theodore James (1905-1982) was a Professor in the Department of Entomology at Washington State University from the 1940s to the 1970s. Dr. James received his Bachelor's of Science, Master's of Science, and PhD from the University in 1932, 1934, and 1938 respectively. In 1974, the Northwest Scientific Association awarded Dr. James the Outstanding Scientist Award. In honor of Dr. James work at WSU, the Food Science and Human Nutrition Building at WSU houses the Maurice T. James Entomological Collection, which contains over 1.25 million specimens of insects and related arthropods.
The Washington State University Libraries date to the founding of the Washington Agricultural College and School of Science, when the library was just a shelf in the President’s office in the first campus building. It quickly grew and became a room in the original College Hall, then half a floor in the Administration Building (Thompson Hall), then half of Bryan Hall, then the full Holland Library, and then the Owen Science and Engineering Library as well. Over time a number of departmental libraries acted as branches of the system, some officially and some unofficially. The Washington Library Network was a group and program that helped with the automation of libraries across the state.
Hilda Boerhave was born in Lynden, WA on March 23, 1917 and graduated from Lynden High School. She married William S. Roberts in 1956. Hilda received her B.S. and a Master of Nursing from the University of Washington and attended Columbia University taking coursework towards a doctorate. She pursued her education and passion for nursing throughout her life with constant studies and efforts to develop the field of professional nursing in Washington. Hilda Roberts served in numerous national, state, and local nursing organizations and worked to expand the field of nursing during its formative years.
Hilda became an assistant professor and director of the School of Nursing at Washington State College (WSC) in 1948. She worked with both the Deaconess and St. Luke’s hospital divisions of the WSC nursing school in the 1940s and 1950s. At WSC and later WSU Hilda Roberts worked in Community College outreach, the College Transfer program, the WSU Extension Program, curricula design, and many other efforts that encouraged the development of the WSU Nursing School and nursing in Eastern Washington. Hilda Roberts also actively participated in numerous local, state, and national nursing organizations that were coming into their own during the postwar period and represent the core of the profession today. These organizations include the American Nurses Association, the National League for Nursing, the Washington State Nurses Association, the Whitman County Nurses Association and the Washington/Alaska Regional Medical Program.
Hilda Roberts worked with other nursing faculty to write the construction, capitation, and development grants that led to the creation of the ICNE in 1968. She served the college as the inaugural Director of the center from 1968-1972 and retired from WSU in 1982. Throughout her tenure she advised, taught, and mentored nursing students and worked tirelessly with other nursing faculty to cultivate the availability of nursing education in Eastern Washington. Mrs. Roberts passed away on September 29, 2011. The WSU College of Nursing carries a Hilda Roberts scholarship in her honor, begun the year of her retirement.
The Intercollegiate Center for Nursing Education (ICNE), created in 1968 and located in Spokane, Washington, was initially a consortium of Eastern Washington University, Whitworth College, Ft. George Wright College, and Washington State University (WSU), which coordinated the program. Students choose to enroll in one of the participating institution, at which they complete their lower division study and general education requirements. For their upper division work the students enter the Intercollegiate Center for Nursing Education, the first nursing consortium in the United States. Located in the medical and geographical center for Eastern Washington, Northern Idaho, Western Montana and border towns of Canada, the Center strives to meet the area's need for programs in nursing, thereby upgrading the practice of nursing in the local communities.
As the first nursing consortium in the U.S., the Center's history and development were accordingly well documented. An area which also consumed the Center's interest involved the method, and theory of nursing education. This issue was resolved in favor of the "holistic" approach to both nursing education and practice.
The Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) of Washington State College (now Washington State University) was established in 1895. It provided the women of the college a place to worship, held bible classes, and located housing and employment. It also served as a social organization that cooperated with the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) of Washington State College. A popular social event in the 1910s-1930s was the conferences held at Seabeck, (located on Washington's Hood Canal). Topics at Seabeck focused on issues of the YWCA's and YMCA's of the Pacific Northwest.
During the 1940s, the chapter concentrated on global issues. For example, the YWCA had plans to send care packages overseas although the lack of funds prohibited such action. In the 1950s-1960s, the organization studied politics and world relations, presenting programs on various subjects, including the war in Vietnam and the Democratic system. In 1969, the YWCA adopted the imperative "the elimination of racism." Programs of the 1970s and 1980s offered more projects on cultural awareness in the United States.
Membership grew steadily until 1954, peaking in that year with 711 members. In 1972, the membership had dropped to 219 members. The student body provided sole support for the YWCA until 1917 when the University partially funded the secretary's salary. Other assistance was provided by the Helen A. Fuller Endowment Fund established by Fuller in 1929. As of 2012, the United Way supported over 75% of the YWCA budget.
Savage, Charles Raymond, b. 1906, plaintiff.
Purchase, Wessel and Lieberman, 2004.
Charles Edward Argersinger (1951-2013) was born in Schenectady, NY, and grew up in Arizona. He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees in music from Arizona State University, and his Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota. He taught at California State University, Bakersfield and DePaul University before joining the faculty at Washington State University (WSU). While at WSU, he founded the WSU Festival of Contemporary Art Music in 1989. He retired from WSU in 2009.
Author Evelyn Johnson Hawes was born in Colville, Washington to W. Lon Johnson and Iva (Dickey) Johnson. She attended Washington State University and the University of Washington, receiving her bachelor's degree from UW in 1936.
Hawes taught writing as member of the faculty at several institutions, including the University of Washington, the University of Cincinnati, Canisius College, Amherst Central Adult School, and the State University of New York at Buffalo.
Hawes' published works include many articles and stories, and several books: They Also Serve (1943), Proud Vision; the History of the Buffalo General Hospital: The First Hundred Years (1964), The Happy Land (1965), Boys Are All Right, Butà (1965), A Madras-type Jacket (1967), and Six Nights a Week (1971).
Kimbrough Hall was built in 1963. Prior to Kimbrough was '“Agony Hall” in the common parlance of the campus, consisted of 16 practice rooms, offices and a small auditorium. It was originally funded by Pullman’s five Malotte sisters. The college purchased the property outright in 1919 for the Malottes’ original 1905 outlay.
David Leslie Stidolph (1923-2004) was a pioneer in creative marketing for fresh produce from the 1950s to the 1990s. He received his B.A. from the University of Idaho in 1947, and his M.A. from Washington State University in 1948. He served as a Perishable Air-Cargo Consultant for Transworld Airlines, which introduced air transport of fresh fruit and vegetables. In 1982, he joined Mann Packing, a large agribusiness enterprise based in Salinas, California, first working as the Director of Food Service and then as Director of Creative Marketing. Recognized as an innovator in branding and developing fresh portions in produce for mass-marketing, he was known in agribusiness as the "father of the broccoli florette." In 1993, he was named "Produce Man of All Seasons" by the United Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Association.
John Dennis McCallum (1924-1988), whose correspondence with Stidolph comprises much of this collection, was Stidolph's classmate at Washington State College in the 1940s. He was a sportswriter, columnist, and author of nonfiction books. McCallum received his M.A. from Washington State University in 1947. He published hundreds of articles and over thirty books, including Pac-10 Football: The Rose Bowl Conference (1982), several other major football conference histories, The Tiger Wore Spikes (a biography of Ty Cobb, 1956), Everest Diary (1966), and Crime Doctor (1978).
Washington State Magazine was created in 2001 as a color magazine-style alumni magazine for Washington State University. Prior to Washington State Magazine, the university’s alumni community had been served by black-and-white newsprint publications, notably Hilltopics (1970-2001), and the Powwow and the Alumnus (1910-1969).
Breitenbush Books (also referred to as Breitenbush Publications) is a small press in Portland, Oregon. Loki Books is a division of Breitenbush Publications.
Environmental Health and Safety is a non-academic service department dedicated to promoting and supporting the university’s efforts to protect human health, safety and the environment.
Franklin Jay Haynes was born in 1853. He became a photographer with his first studio in Moorhead, Minnesota, ca. 1876. He became "Official Photographer, Northern Pacific Railroad" in 1881, and for 20 years, with a Pullman car as his studio and headquarters, he photographed the country and people along the Northern Pacific routes. Later he became a Yellowstone Park concessionaire, issuing a guide book and operating a fleet of six-horse stage coaches bringing in tourists from the rail stop at Monida, Montana. He retired from business in 1916 and died in 1921.
Initiated in 1975, STEEP (Solutions To Environmental and Economic Problems) is a collaborative project involving scientists and educators from the University of Idaho, Oregon State University, Washington State University, and USDA-Agricultural Research Service, in cooperation with grower organizations and agricultural support industries and agencies. STEEP is an interdisciplinary research/education program focusing on developing profitable cropping systems technologies for controlling cropland soil erosion and protecting environmental quality. (From STEEP’s website. Accessed September 10, 2010)
Leslie Wildesen (1944-2014) was born and raised in Phoenix, AZ. She earned a B.A. from Stanford University (1966), an M.A. from San Francisco State College (1970), and a Ph.D. from Washington State University (1973). She was an expert in archaeological preservation and cultural resource management. During her career as an archaeologist and environmental consultant, she held a variety of positions including Colorado State Archaeologist, U.S. Forest Service Regional Archaeologist for the Rocky Mountain region, and President of Environmental Training and Consulting International, Inc., which she co-founded with Jeanne Crouch. She authored over 250 professional papers and presentations, and was awarded a Congressional Fellowship by the American Anthropological Association.
George Bedirian (1939-) began photographing the Palouse region in 1969, and in 1987 a number of his photographs were compiled and published as Palouse Country: An Essay in Photographs. An updated version would be published in 2002 simply as Palouse Country. His works have been exhibited worldwide; a number of his images were hosted in an exhibit at WSU's Manuscripts, Archives, and Special Collections in the summer of 1983.
Anton Witek was a German musician.
The office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development in 1993, and then as Capital Planning in 2001. The office of Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question.
Fred Grafton Rounds was born January 6, 1893, at St. Paul, Minnesota. He was graduated from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1916. During the First World War, Rounds was commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant in the U.S. Army. He was discharged as a 1st Lieutenant in April 1919. Rounds began his career in architecture for the firm of Croft and Hoerner Architects,in Minneapolis. In 1923, Rounds joined the WSC Department of Architectural Engineering in 1923, where he served as an assistant professor of architecture and as an assistant designer in the college architect's office. He also joined with his colleague, Stanley A. Smith, in the architectural firm of Smith and Rounds. The partnership designed many residences in Pullman in the late 1920s, along with several sorority and fraternity houses. By the late 1920s, Rounds left his post at WSC to pursue a full-time private architecture practice in Tacoma and Chehalis.
In 1932 he designed the center unit addition to the Pullman High School. In 1934 he returned to the WSC campus to oversee several college building construction project sponsored by the federal Public Works Administration. From 1937 to 1950, Rounds he served as superintendent of the State College's Department of Buildings and Grounds. He retired from WSC in 1958. Fred G. Rounds was a civic-minded resident of Pullman. He joined the local Kiwanis club, serving on numerous committees. He was elected its president in 1943, and in 1955 served as the Pacific Northwest District Governor. In addition, Rounds was an organizer and long-time member of the Planning Commission and the Whitman County Planning Commission. He served on the Pullman School Board and the Pullman Memorial Hospital Board; and he was director of the Pullman-WSC Civil Defense program and chairman of the Pullman Chamber of Commerce. Rounds was a member of the Pullman Community Congregational Church, where he served as a deacon and as chief usher. He also oversaw the design and construction of the congregation's new house of worship in the mid-1950s. He was also active in Masonic lodges. In 1919, Rounds married the former Ruth Wikoff. The union brought three children, Mrs. Harold (Jeanne) Olsen, Mrs. Earl (Margery) Muir, and Fred G. Rounds, Jr. Ruth Rounds died in 1949. In 1955, Fred Rounds married the former Mrs. John P. (Dora) Sanger. Rounds died on May 2, 1972.
The Alternatives for Washington (AFW) program began in 1974 and concluded with a final report in early 1977. AFW involved Washington citizens in community-based social planning; it was funded with grants from the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Pacific Northwest Regional Commission in the US Department of Commerce, and administered by the state's Office of Program Planning and Fiscal Management.
Governor Daniel J. Evans launched the AFW program in January 1974 with the mission first to ask Washington citizens what they wanted the state to be like in 1985 and then to involve them in actualizing that vision by identifying the costs and necessary trade-offs. Workshops, seminars, and community meetings across the state inaugurated the program and reached 60,000 citizens in the first year. In 1975 the 150-person statewide AFW task force analyzed and evaluated responses and compiled a report that identified eight public policy areas for Phase Two. Phase Two returned with costs attached to proposals and queried citizens to identify acceptable trade-offs to preserve "our magnificent Northwest life-style" (Alternatives for Washington, Vol. I, Rpt. 1, May 1975). Claiming to have involved 100,000 people over its three years, AFW concluded in January 1977 with the issuance of a final report An Agenda for the Future: A Citizens Report on Alternatives for Washington.
Several departments at Washington State University assisted with conducting meetings, collecting and analyzing responses to opinion polls, and producing media presentations. These included Cooperative Extension, whose relevant records are contained in Archives 225, along with the Department of Rural Sociology (especially faculty members John M. Wardwell and Don A. Dillman), the Social Research Center, and Radio-Television Services. Besides this collection, WSU-held media associated with the project include photographs and a 16-mm film in Archives 225 (see below) and two 3/4-inch videotapes entitled "Alternatives for Washington: A Future Tense" in WSU Libraries Media Materials Services that are an "enhanced" slide show on the background and purpose of AFW with photographs from public meetings. Note that Archives 225 contains slides that may be the originals used in this slide show.
The films in this collection are assumed to be footage shot by WSU Radio-Television Services that was then used to create three AFW-associated films identified in WorldCat as WSU-produced and held only by the Washington State Library: Alternatives for Washington [1974?], Issaquah, a Beginning: Alternatives for Washington [1974?], and The First Year: Alternatives for Washington [1975?].
Alternatives for Washington was a 12-minute introduction to the AFW project; Issaquah, a Beginning: Alternatives for Washington documented 1974's twelve-day citizen panels and public meetings in Issaquah and was released in 27-minute and 20-minute "short" versions; and the 26-minute The First Year: Alternatives for Washington summarized the Phase I results including the areas of concern based on the 1974 citizen surveys and is included in Archives 225.
This collection's films were stored at Teknifilm, Inc. in Portland and sent to WSU Libraries in 2001 after Oregon Historical Society acquired the company's collection. Teknifilm offered complete film processing from 1964 to 1998. WSU Radio-Television Services presumably sent film footage shot for AFW to Teknifilm to be developed and perhaps for post-production work. This collection seems to consist of what remained at Teknifilm: footage used in a WSU-production, but not the final prints.
The Commission on General Education was formed in 1986. Some activities were supported by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. Its purpose was to review and, if needed, recommend changes in the general education requirements at Washington State University. Its final report came out in February, 1989, with extensive revisions recommended. These recommendations were the basis for revising WSU's general education requirements, beginning in 1990. The commission was chaired by University Executive Vice-President and Provost, Albert C. Yates, and Vice-Chair was Robert A. Littlewood, Anthropology. Other members included Richard Law, Division of Humanities and Social Sciences; Donald Bushaw, Vice Provost for Education; John Kicza, History; James Quann, Registrar; and Birgitta Ingemanson, Foreign Languages and Literatures.
Organized crew at Washington State University began as a men's club sport in the 1969-1970 school year; female Cougars began rowing in 1974. In 1990, women's rowing became an official university-funded sport; as of 2016 men's rowing still remains a club activity. The terms crew and rowing are effectively interchangeable.
Reuben Clair Newcomb (1909-1998) earned a bachelor's degree in Geology from the State College of Washington in 1933, and went on to work as a professional geologist in the mining industry and for the U.S. Geological Survey. He served in the U.S. Army in World War II.
Lenore Emerson and Carl Johnson met as students in a history class at Washington State College, and when Carl joined the Navy in 1917 they began an active correspondence. They married in 1920.
Carl graduated from the preparatory school at WSC in 1916, and entered the college that fall He was a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity. Resuming his studies after the war, he graduated in 1925 and went on to a career as a teacher and school administrator, serving as school superintendent in Battle Ground, WA from 1939 to 1956.
Lenore Emerson was the daughter of a Pullman, WA merchant. She graduated from Pullman High School in 1915, and earned her degree in Home Economics from WSC in 1919. She was a member of the Pi Beta Phi sorority.
The Morrill Act of 1862 provided for the funding of colleges by granting federally controlled land to the states for them to develop or sell. These land grant colleges were initially intended to further education in agriculture, sciences, and technology. After becoming a state in 1889, Washington became eligible for these federal grants, and in 1890 the state authorized what would eventually evolve into Washington State University.
Grapes have been a commercial crop in Washington since the late 19th century, with production concentrated in Yakima and Benton Counties. The Agricultural Experiment Station at Prosser first worked with grapes in the 1930s, and began work with wine and wine grape production in 1965. Much of the post-1965 effort was directed by Walter Clore.
Historical essays about grapes, wine and related experimentation in Washington can be found among these records, folders 237 and 238 in Box 4.
George and Doris McIntyre of Ephrata, Washington, were workers at the Minidoka War Relocation Center in Idaho during World War II. George McIntyre supervised the camp motor pool, and later served as Acting Assistant Project Director in charge of operations. Doris McIntyre taught secretarial skills to individuals imprisoned at the center.
Executive Order 9066:
In 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, which resulted in the incarceration from 1942 to 1946 of approximately 120,000 adults and children of Japanese ancestry, many of whom were United States citizens. They were expelled from their homes and placed in incarceration camps without due process and in violation of their civil rights. These camps were euphemistically referred to as “relocation centers” or “internment camps”. After decades of advocacy by the Japanese American community, in 1988 the United States issued a formal apology and began redress to survivors of Japanese incarceration during World War II.
The functions and duties of the Washington State University President are defined in University Faculty Manual, edition of 1987, as:
In addition to being designated as secretary ex officio of the Board of Regents, the President as general agent of the Board is the chief executive officer of Washington State University. The President administers the policies approved by the Board of Regents, serves as advisor to the Board on policies and operations and is the agent through whom representations to the Board are regularly made. Other functions of the chief executive officer include: Leadership in developing policies and organization for teaching, research, and extension programs. Public administration of the University, including representation before the Legislature and other state agencies. Responsibility for the general welfare of students; the development, operation and maintenance of buildings, lands and equipment; financial matters pertaining to development, operation and maintenance of University; and the administration of regulations adopted by the Board of Regents. Responsibility, delegated by the Board of Regents, for all appointments, promotion, salaries, leaves, resignations, and dismissals. Presiding at meetings of the general faculty.
Born 24 May 1920, in Tallahassee, Florida, W. Glenn Terrell earned his bachelor’s degree in political science at Davidson College, his master’s degree in psychology from Florida State University, and his Ph.D. from the University of Iowa. He taught psychology at Florida State and the University of Colorado before becoming dean of the College of Liberal Arts, and then dean of faculties, at the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle.
In 1967, Terrell was selected as the seventh president of Washington State University, taking office on the 1st of July. The years of the Terrell presidency were times of change and turmoil for the nation, including activism on the Pullman campus related to the Vietnam War, racism, and feminism. Terrell is considered to have handled well the difficulties of that era, including the student strike in 1970. Ethnic studies programs, the Commission on the Status of Women, and the Office of Ombudsman, were established by Terrell in response to student and faculty concerns.
Terrell was respected nationally for his leadership, serving on the board of the Western Interstate Commission on Higher Education, or WICHE, and as the elected president of the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges.
After his retirement in 1985, and in recognition of his service to WSU, the University established the endowed Glenn Terrell Presidential Scholarships for high-ability students, recognizing both his commitment to students and his role in starting the WSU Foundation. The University also named the area in the heart of the campus the Glenn Terrell Friendship Mall and the new library adjacent to Holland Library as the Terrell Library. Glenn Terrell died at the age of 93 on 30 August 2013.
Richard Dean Scheuerman was born on April 18, 1951 and raised near Endicott, Washington. After graduating from Washington State University, he completed the program at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California, as a member of the U. S. Air Force, and was awarded a diploma in Russian. With a grant from the Lutheran World Federation, he undertook research at the Centre for the Study of Religion and Communism in London. (From the guide to PC 20)
He earned his B.A. in history and education from Washington State University (1973), his M.A. in history from Pacific Lutheran University (1977), and his Ph.D. in educational leadership from Gonzaga University (1992). After serving for many years as a teacher and administrator in Washington public schools, in 2004 Scheuerman joined the faculty of Seattle Pacific University. He has authored and co-authored several books, including "Renegade Tribe: The Palouse Indians and the Invasion of the Inland Pacific Northwest" with Clifford Trafzer (Washington State University Press, 1986) and "Finding Chief Kamiakin: The Life and Legacy of a Northwest Patriot" with Michael Finley (Washington State University Press, 2008).
Enoch A. Bryan was born in Bloomington, Indiana, on May 10, 1855. He received an A.B. degree from Indiana University in 1878 and an A.M. Degree from that university in 1885. He also received an A.M. degree from Harvard University in 1893. He later received Honorary Doctor of Law degrees from Indiana University (1920), Michigan State University (1907), and Washington State University (1929). Bryan was President of Vincennes University from 1882-1893, after serving as the Superintendent of Public Schools in Grayville, Illinois. He came to the State College of Washington (initially called the Agricultural College, Experiment Station, and School of Science of the State of Washington, and now known as Washington State University) in 1893 and served as its president until 1916, when he became the Commissioner of Education for the State of Idaho, from 1917 to 1923. He had failed in 1916 to attain the nomination for a seat in the United States Senate.
Dr. Bryan returned to the State College of Washington in 1923 and was a professor of economic history until 1939, when he became a professor emeritus. During his lifetime he wrote three books: "The Mark in Europe and America", "The History of the State College of Washington", and "Orient Meets Occident or The Advent of the Railways into the Pacific Northwest". Dr. Bryan died in Pullman, Washington, on November 6, 1941.
(Revised information from Guide to the Lazslo Valko Papers 1936-1974, Cage 470)
Dr. Laszlo Valko (1907-1982) served as a Professor of Agricultural Economics at Washington State University from 1950 to 1972. Valko was born on June 18, 1907 in Budapest, Hungary. He earned doctoral degrees in law, political science, and economics at Budapest University. After completing his education in 1938, he entered government service, and directed the official social work in Hungarian agriculture until 1944. Valko left civil service and joined the Hungarian Resistance when Nazi Germany invaded and occupied Hungary in 1944. Following World War II, Valko was appointed to lead the Office of Social Administration in Hungary's Ministry of Social Welfare, but stepped down as Soviet influence spread throughout the country in late 1945. In 1946, he served as the director for the Central Institute of Farmers' Co-operatives, and also taught at the University of Szeged. In 1848, after the Hungarian Communist Party took control of Hungary's co-operatives, Valko and his wife, Helena, escaped to Switzerland. They immigrated to the United States a year later.
After a brief tenure at Iowa State University, Valko joined the Washington State University faculty in 1950, and remained a member of the Agricultural Economics Department at WSU until his retirement in 1972. Widely published, translated, and traveled, Valko represented the United States at many co-operative farming conferences worldwide throughout the 1950s and 1960s. After his retirement from WSU, he frequently delivered guest lectures at the invitation of numerous foreign governments.
Phi Delta Kappa is a national education honorary. The local chapter was first established as the Alpha Beta Club in 1917. The club successfully petitioned Phi Delta Kappa for chapter standing and the Alpha Gamma Chapter was established in 1922.
An University Architect has served as the construction officer of Washington State University from 1911 onward. The modern form of the office dates from 1947, when it became a full-time, staffed administrative department. In 1967, the office was renamed as Facilities Planning and later as Facilities Development. It is responsible for the major construction projects of the university.
Rexford F. Daubenmire was born 12 December 1909 in Coldwater, Ohio. He graduated from Butler University with a bachelor's degree in 1930, the University of Colorado with a master's degree in 1932, and received a doctorate from the University of Minnesota in 1935 in botany under William S. Cooper. He subsequently taught at the University of Tennessee for a year then the University of Idaho for a decade before accepting a position with Washington State College (later Washington State University) in 1946. He remained with WSU for 29 years and was professor emeritus of botany after his retirement in 1975. Daubenmire also held short appointments with several other universities and agencies, including at the Organization of Tropical Studies in Costa Rica, the United States Forest Service, and the Sierra Club. Daubenmire was a member of the Pacific Northwest Science Association, the American Society of Range Management, and the Association of Southeastern Biologists. In 1967 he served as president of the Ecological Society of America and received the society's Eminent Ecologist Award in 1980, among other honors. Upon his retirement in 1975, Daubenmire moved to Florida with his wife, Jean, where he continued to research and publish until his death on 27 August 27 1995.
Daubenmire was widely recognized as one of the leading scholars in the field of plant ecology during his time. In the 1950s, he introduced a classification scheme for forest and grassland vegetation that the United States Forest Service later adopted. The Daubenmire system emphasized habitat, rather than what vegetation currently existed due to fire and human activity, such as ranching and farming, frequently altering native vegetation. Daubenmire also made significant contributions in explaining the relationship between vegetation and environmental conditions for a better understanding of ecological succession, the migration of plant species in North America over time, the range of tree species, and the impact of fire on plant communities.
Daubenmire published over 100 works in the field of plant ecology, including three widely used textbooks: "Plants and Environment: A Textbook of Plant Autecology," first published in 1947 and revised twice, served as standard text in agronomy, botany, and forestry classes and was translated into several languages, including Polish and Spanish; "Plant Communities: A Textbook of Plant Synecology," published in 1968, also became standard reference for ecologists; and finally "Plant Geography: with Special Reference to North America" published in 1978.
Known affectionately as "Dauby" by his former students, Daubenmire supervised over 35 doctoral and 18 master's students in the field of botany during his tenure at WSU, many of whom later took positions as professors and ecologists within universities and government organizations around the world. The Department of Botany and the School of Biological Sciences recognize Daubenmire's contribution to the field and to WSU with the Rexford Daubenmire Award in Botany. (see PC 122)
Clarence Leslie Hix was born in Filmore, Montana, on October 31, 1886. His family later moved to Spokane, Washington, where Clarence attended the old Spokane High School. After graduating high school, he came to Pullman as a freshman at Washington State College in 1905. Although he lived in a dormitory, he belonged to a local fraternity which became Sigma Phi Epsilon in 1912. He graduated in 1909 with a B.S. in civil engineering and with high honors. He also had a degree in mathematics. Hix taught mathematics at Pullman High School from 1909 until 1911. He then became a math instructor at Washington State College, from 1911 until 1919. He married Miss Hettie Cave in 1916. She was also a Washington State College graduate. She received a degree in Home Economics in 1915. Hix had a long career at Washington State College. He became Chief Accountant in 1919, and later worked in the Comptroller's office during World War II. After the war he was the retirement and insurance officer and in 1949 was appointed the budget officer, a position he held until his retirement in 1957.
Hix was also involved in campus organizations. He was elected treasurer of the Washington State University Alumni Association in 1920, and retained that position for 63 years. The alumni lounge was dedicated in his name in 1978. He was also the treasurer for Sigma Phi Epsilon for over half a century, and for this he received their highest honor, the Golden Heart. Hix served on numerous committees, boards, councils, and commissions on campus and in the Pullman community. He was a member of the Pullman Foundation and was the Blue Lion's Club secretary for many years. He died on November 17, 1983 at the age of 97.
A University Architect served as the construction officer at Washington State University from 1911 forward. The modern form of the office dates from 1947 when it became a full-time, staffed administrative department. In 1967 the University Architect office was renamed as Facilities Planning, and then to Facilities Development in 1993. In 2001 it was renamed as Capital Planning. While Capital Planning is responsible for major planning and development, smaller projects are conducted by Facilities Operations. Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately, some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question - initially items costing less than $1,000,000 were assigned to Fac Ops, and those costing more to CP. By 2009, this break point is between $1,500,000 and $2,000,000.
Long Lake Dam is located approximately 25 miles northeast of Spokane, Washington on the Spokane River. This facility was believed to have the highest spillway (170 feet) and largest turbines in the world when it was finished in 1915 by the Washington Water Power Company, and is listed in the National Register of Historic Places. Long Lake, behind the dam, is also known today as Lake Spokane. Joseph Beckman worked on its construction.
The Museum of Anthropology, Washington State University, is a federal archaeological repository and contains both ethnographic and archaeological research collections.
The museum had its beginnings in 1894 when Charles R. Conner, president of the Board of Regents of what was then Washington State College, acquired 2 "carloads" of museum specimens while attending the Chicago World's Fair. These items were combined with other materials on campus to form the core of the Washington State College Museum of Natural History.
During 1949-1950, the Natural History Museum was divided by discipline, and anthropological specimens were transferred to the Department of Anthropology. Some of the ethnographic materials were in display cases in Todd Hall on campus from 1951 to 1963, but most were placed in storage in the Todd basement. In 1963, the displayed materials were also put in storage.
All these materials remained in storage until September 1968, when they were transferred to the new Museum of Anthropology in the neighboring building, Johnson Tower. Most historic artifacts held by the anthropology department were transferred to "well-established historical collections in the Northwest Region" in accordance with a directive from the university president.
The museum in Johnson Tower was extensively remodeled in 1975. In 1984 the museum (along with all the branches of the anthropology department) moved to its current space in College Hall. Currently, the public area of the museum is 2,500 square feet, with a preparation room and an environmentally controlled storage vault equipped with a "movable aisle" storage system.
(Source: Washington State University Museum of Anthropology website, "History of the Museum".)
Charles H. Drake (1916-2002) was born in Waterloo, Iowa, and earned bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees from the University of Minnesota (1937, 1940, 1942). He was a professor in the Department of Bacteriology and Public Health at Washington State University for 36 years, retiring in 1981. He was a longtime member and officer of the International Northwest Conference on Diseases in Nature Communicable to Man (INCDNCM), serving as the President of the organization in 1957, Secretary in 1959, and giving the R.R. Parker Memorial Address at the organization's annual conference in 1976.
The YWCA of Washington State College was established in 1895. It provided the women of the college a place to worship, held bible classes, locate housing and employment. It also served as a social organization that participated with the YWCA of Washington State College. A popular social event in the 1910's-1930's were the conferences held at Seabeck, (located on Washington's Hood's Canal). Topics at Seabeck focused on issues of the YWCA's and YMCA's of the Pacific Northwest.
During the 1940's the chapter concentrated on global issues, the YWCA had plans to send care packages overseas although the lack of funds prohibited such action. In the 1950's-1960's the organization studied politics and world relations, presenting programs on various subjects, including the war in Vietnam and the Democratic system. In 1969 the YWCA adopted the imperative "the elimination of racism". Programs of the 1970's and the 1980's offered more projects on cultural awareness in the United States.
Membership grew steadily throughout the years, peaking in 1954 with 711 members. In 1972 the membership had dropped to 219 members. The student body provided sole support for the YWCA until 1917 when the University partially funded the secretary's salary. Other assistance was provided by the Helen A. Fuller Endowment Fund established by Fuller in 1929. Presently, the United Way supports over 75% of the YWCA budget.
Environmental Health and Safety is a non-academic service department dedicated to promoting and supporting the university’s efforts to protect human health, safety and the environment.
Thomas Manby was born in 1769. He joined the Royal Navy in 1783 and was appointed to accompany Captain George Vancouver on his voyage to the North Pacific Ocean and the Pacific Northwest in 1790. The purpose of this voyage was to carry the Nootka treaty into effect, to go to the Sandwich Islands and then the Northwest Coast, there to examine all the European settlements, explore the Strait of Juan de Fuca, and investigate the story of the "Washington's" having circumnavigated Vancouver Island. The expedition departed with two ships, the Discovery and the Chatham. Manby was first a mate on the Discovery and was later appointed the master of the Chatham.
The expedition proceeded to the Cape of Good Hope. They entered the Indian Ocean on August 17, 1791 and stopped at New Holland, New Zealand, and Otahita Island, en route to the Sandwich Islands. They then sailed to the Pacific Northwest in search of a Northwest Passage, explored the Northwest Coast, including the Strait of Juan de Fuca, Port Discovery, Nootka Sound and Karakakooah Bay. The voyage was completed in 1795. Manby was later commissioned and rose to the rank of Rear Admiral. He died in 1834.
Alpha Phi Omega fraternity was founded nationally in 1925. According to its charter the organization "seeks to develop Leadership, and promote Friendship and provide Service," in accordance with the code of the Boy Scouts of America. Alpha Xi, the W.S.U. chapter of this honorary service fraternity, was established in 1935.
Gordon Almon Van Epps (1920-2016) was raised in Arizona, received undergraduate degrees in Botany and Pre-med, served in the Navy during World War II, the got his Masters in Agronomy from Utah State University. He spent most of his career as a research and teaching professor at Utah State, including USAID stints in Iran and Bolivia. His final two years before retirement were with Washington State University on a USAID stint in Lesotho.
The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) was created in 1961, combining several existing foreign aid programs. Its initial two-fold charge was to reduce poverty and increase production in developing countries, and to help countries prosper under capitalism. Washington State University participated in agricultural development programs in numerous countries, include Lesotho, Pakistan, Jordan, and Mali.
Carl William Sharsmith was born in New York, New York in 1903. He studied botany at the University of California in the 1930s and received the Ph.D. in 1940. He held a position combining duties as herbarium curator and botany instructor at Washington State University from 1937 to 1939. From 1940 to 1946 he was with the University of Minnesota, and from 1950 onward at San Jose State College. His principal interest was in alpine vegetation.
Sharsmith's years at Washington State proved to be a frustrating time. He found himself required to teach many classes, while also attempting to complete a doctoral dissertation and administer a herbarium with a large backlog of work. He inadvertently became involved in a quarrel with the university administration when the University President cancelled planned field trips. He also felt a sense of isolation at Pullman, where he was far from the alpine vegetation which held his major interest. Moreover, the lack of cultural opportunities, especially performances of serious music, added to this feeling of isolation. After two years he left this position. Ironically, many of the problems which had vexed him, and which had also prompted his immediate predecessors to leave Washington State, were then alleviated by changes in the policies regarding research, teaching, and administration of the herbarium.
A legislative enactment of 1890 founded Washington State University, originally called Washington Agricultural College and School of Science. Actual operation began in January 1892. The enabling act normally is used to date university events, and accordingly the 100th anniversary was observed in 1990.
A system of several committees had responsibility for the University centennial, while the Office of University Relations served as staff and coordinators. The principal coordinators, Dan Peterson and Sonia Hussa, maintained the records of the centennial activities and projects. Edward R. Murrow was a WSU alumni who excelled in Military Science and Tactics. He later evolved into a notable American broadcast journalist during World War II and beyond.
Donald Bushaw taught mathematics at Washington State University from 1952 until the 1990s, attaining the rank of full professor, and was named Emeritus Professor upon his retirement. Bushaw received his bachelor's degree from Washington State College in 1949, and his Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1952. Among his many honors, he received WSU's Distinguished Faculty Award in 1987.
Cornelia Shields is a writer from Dayton, Washington. She obtained her bachelor’s degree in English Language and Literature from Washington State University (WSU).
John A. Simms, born ca. 1827, traveled to California in 1850 in the wake of the Gold Rush from his home in Leonardtown, Maryland. Within a year, however, he moved on to Oregon where he lived during most of that decade. In 1858 he moved from The Dalles to Walla Walla in the Territory of Washington. There in partnership with A. H. Reynolds and Captain F. T. Dent (brother of Mrs. U. S. Grant) Simms in 1859 built and operated one of the first flour mills in the region. That same year he was appointed by the Territorial Legislature to be an interim justice of the peace until elections could be held. During the Civil War years it appears Simms made his living by providing flour to settlers and especially to miners on their way into the gold fields at Oro Fino.
Simms was a member of the nine-man Territorial Council (upper house) where he represented Clark, Skamania, Klikitat, Walla Walla, and Spokane counties. He held this position from 1861 to 1862. Evidence from Owen's Journals and Letters tells us that Simms raised cattle and was regarded as a quiet, intelligent, and scrupulously honest man. During this time he had married Lucy McFadden, daughter of O.B. McFadden who had come from Pennsylvania to serve as an appointed judge in both the Oregon and Washington Territories.
Simms left for the east in 1868 in order to secure a federal appointment as Indian Agent in Washington Territory. By the spring of 1869 he was successful in gaining this commission and returned to eastern Washington to take up his duties in the Spokane-Colville region.
A disagreement over policy, in September, 1872, led to the resignation of W. P. Winans and the appointment of Simms as Winans' replacement. Simms' first assignment, the one Winans refused to carry out, was to convince the Spokane tribes that it was in their best interest to relocate to the newly formed Colville Reservation in the northern part of the territory and thus give up the improvements they had made to the land in the Spokane region. It was at this time that Simms assumed the position of principal Indian Agent at the Colville Agency. He held this position until 1883. John A. Simms died in Spokane September 1, 1890.
Sir Stanley Unwin (1884-1968) was an author and head of the English publishing house of George Allen and Unwin, Ltd. which he established in 1914. A strong proponent of international cooperation in book matters, he served as president of the International Publishing Association, 1936-1938 and 1946-1957, and traveled extensively throughout the world collecting information on organization and publishing techniques from booksellers and publishing houses.
Fay Walter Clower was a professor in the Department of Economics, Washington State University.
Thomas Foley (1929-2013) was born in Spokane, Washington and attended Gonzaga University and the University of Washington. He was first elected to Congress in 1964 and served the Fifth District of Washington State until 1995. He eventually became the Speaker of the House of Representatives. When he left Congress after being defeated by George Nethercutt in the 1994 midterm election, Washington State University created the Foley Institute of Public Policy and Public Service in his honor.
Frank Mullen was the Whitman County coordinator of Foley's reelection campaigns in the years 1980-1986.
Little is known about Tokichi Okazaki. Judging from the papers, he was a resident in Seattle and Pasco, Washington between 1900 and 1930. He appears to have been an employee of the Northern Pacific Railroad.
Microbiology, originally taught as Bacteriology as a part of the Department of Botany and Zoology, was first taught at the Washington Agricultural College and Experiement Stations in Science in 1895. After a shift in management, bacteriology separated from the Department of Botany and Zoology and would eventually morph in to the Department of Microbiology in 1985.
Harry Charles Weller (1901-1988) was born in Puyallup, Washington to Charles Amos and Elizabeth Weller. He graduated with a Bachelor's of Science degree from Washington State University in 1923 and a Master of Architecture from Harvard University in 1928. Weller joined the faculty of WSU in 1928, and in 1949 he was promoted to a professorship. From 1955 until his retirement in 1966, he served as chairman of the Department of Architectural Engineering. He was also a member of various organizations such as American Institute of Architects (AIA), National Educational Commission, Washington State Council Architects, Scarab, Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Tau, Phi Kappa Phi and Kiwanis. As an active member of AIA, he served as Chairman of the Membership Committee, Spokane Chapter, in 1941, and Chairman of Library and Slides in 1957. During 1959-1962, he served a term as the Director of the Northwest Region of AIA. The Department of Architecture and Construction Management currently awards a scholarship in Harry C. Weller's name. (for more information, please see Cage 337)
Dr. Richard L. Ott was a Veterinary Medicine professor in the College of Veterinary Medicine at Washington State University from 1949 to 1983. The small animal unit of the WSU Veterinary Teaching Hospital is named after Dr. Ott, and the College of Veterinary Medicine also has an endowment in his name.
Robert Nilan (1923-2015) was born in British Columbia, and received his undergraduate and master's degrees from the University of British Columbia (1946, 1948). He earned his Ph.D in Genetics from the University of Wisconsin (1951), and in that same year he was appointed as a Research Associate at Washington State College. In 1952, he was appointed Assistant Professor and Assistant Agronomist, rising to the rank of Professor and Agronomist in 1961. He served as Dean of the Division of Sciences from 1979 to 1989, and retired from WSU in 1992 after a 40-year career. Known as "Barley Bob," he was an internationally recognized expert in mutations, cytogenetics, and breeding of barley, and was the coordinator of the North American Barley Genome Mapping Project. He was a prolific scholar who published extensively, and he earned many honors and awards, including a Fulbright and a Guggenheim fellowship. In 2015 he was given the Washington State University President's Award for Lifetime Achievement.
The State College of Washington began an audio-visual education service in 1938. The Audio Visual Center came into existence with quarters in the new Holland Library in 1950. The Center offered four main types of service: film distribution, field service, instruction and research, and film reference and program planning. Its name was changed to Instructional Media Services circa 1977. Over time, and with changes in technology and an increasing capability for remote instruction, the functions of IMS split in two directions, with collection maintenance remaining in the Libraries, and instruction aligning with WHETS and similar programs aimed at distance classes. The Library portion eventually became Media, Materials, and Reserves (MMR) and closed in 2017. The non-Library portion has evolved through a variety of names, including Academic Media Services (AMS), and Academic Outreach and Innovation (AOI).
Sir Leslie Stephen (1832-1904) was an author and the first editor of the Dictionary of National Biography. At the time this letter was written (June 1862), Stephen was in the process of leaving the priesthood, and had been climbing extensively in the Alps.
A legislative enactment of 1890 founded Washington State University, originally called Washington Agricultural College and School of Science. Actual instruction began in January 1892. The enabling act normally is used to date university events, and accordingly the 100th anniversary was observed in 1990.
A system of several committees had responsibility for the University centennial, while the Office of University Relations served as staff and coordinators. The principal coordinators, Dan Peterson and Sonia Hussa, maintained the records of the centennial activities and projects.
The office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development in 1993, and then as Capital Planning in 2001. The office of Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question.
Epsilon Sigma Phi is an organization of Extension workers, those who work for land-grant universities and spread research-based knowledge to help people improve their lives. The first chapter was organized in Bozeman, Montana on January 11, 1927 and just two days later the Beta Chapter was chartered at Washington State College. The organization is "dedicated to fostering a standard of excellence in the Extension System and developing Extension profession and professionalism." The Beta Chapter became inactive in the mid-to-late 1980s.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
Louis Linden Madsen was born in Salt Lake City in 1907, received his Bachelor of Science Degree from Utah State Agricultural College in 1930, and went on to obtain his Doctorate from Cornell University in 1934. On July 1, 1955 he became the Director of the Washington State University Institute of Agricultural Science which, in 1965, was renamed the College of Agriculture. He retired from W.S.U. as Dean Emeritus in 1973. His papers, however, concern his tenure as a member of the Washington State Board of Natural Resources.
In 1957 the state of Washington enacted House Bill No. 68 which stipulated the creation of the Department of Natural Resources and its executive body, the Board of Natural Resources. This law also designated the board members as the Governor, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, the Commissioner of Public Lands, the Dean of the College of Forestry of the University of Washington, and the Dean or Director of the School of Agriculture of W.S.U. Dr. Madsen sat on the board from 1957 to 1973. The Board held its first meeting April 1, 1957 and, by law, chose the head of the Department of Natural Resources. The department, under the direction of the board, abolished and consolidated the functions of: the Board of State Land Commissioners; the Forestry Board; the Sustained-Yield Forest Committee; and others. The board itself exclusively controls and supervises the department and all public lands, including their use, lease, exchange, acquisition, sale, timber production, minerals, and other valuable materials.
The Womens’ Recreation Association (WRA) was set up to fulfill recreational needs and desires of women students on campus. It had three parts: recreational clubs, intramurals, and co-rec. Intramurals gave the women opportunity to compete based on living groups. There was an intramural board which consisted of the vice president of the WRA and two appointed WRA members. The board selected a manager for each activity. The activities included badminton, volleyball, co-ed volleyball, swimming, basketball, bowling, skiing, gymnastics, track and field, archery, synchronized swimming, co-ed golf, tennis, and softball. The Crimson W program also fell under the WRA. The Crimson W, an honorary athletic organization for women, encourages good sportsmanship and sponsors athletic enterprise on the campus. To earn a Crimson W, the women had to participate in a variety of activities within the sports department and earn 900 points.
Austin Mires (1852-1936) was a prominent political figure and eventual first mayor or Ellensburg, Washington where he would serve two terms.
Purchase, Priscilla Juvelis, Inc., 2001.
The Women's Auxiliary of the Washington Wool Growers Association was founded in 1923 to bring together wives of members of the association, and over time the membership was broadened to include women interested in the industries and activities represented in the association. Promoting sheep products with a variety of activities and events, the group sponsors "Make It Yourself with Wool," an annual sewing contest, and raises funds for its activities with a Lamburger booth at the Central Washington Fair. They support agricultural education and training for youth, including 4-H and Future Farmers of America members involved in projects related to sheep and wool.
The Washington Wool Growers Association is an organization of sheep producers and wool growers in the state of Washington. The state association is a branch of the National Wool Growers Association.
The membership of the Washington Wool Growers Association consists of persons who are both directly involved in the production of sheep and wool and those who are within the sheep industry or have an interest in it. The goals of the Association are to promote the welfare of the sheep industry in the state of Washington and to promote consumer usage of wool and lamb. They accomplish this by working on and/or lobbying for Congressional bills concerning foreign imports of sheep products, livestock taxes, public lands usage and predator control. Wool and lamb consumption are boosted through yearly barbeques which make people more aware of lamb and its many uses and through annual state and national Miss Wool contests. Miss Wool is a public relations representative for the industry.
The WSU Physical Plant was originally known as Buildings and Grounds dating back to at least 1908 when a superintendent was appointed to the department. The department underwent a name change to Buildings and Grounds in the 1960's and a reorganizing in the 80's. The department is responsible for small scale construction and remodeling work around the WSU campus, as well as day to day maintenance.
Clergyman, Portland, Oregon.
'A staff unit formed in 1978 to study materials from the perspective of technical audio visual quality as well as make distribution of materials feasible. The IMS reported any requests for materials directly to the Vice President of WSU. They were later disbanded.
Ortis C. Skaife, born in 1893, was living in Colfax, Washington when he enlisted in the U. S. military in 1917. He became a Sergeant with Company A, Central Records Office, American Expeditionary Force, France.
The ASWSU (Associated Students of Washington State University) Activities Center serves the university by organizing, directing and generally over-seeing many campus-related student group activities. Administering of student organizations includes constant evaluation and advisement.The Activities Center was established with approval of the Board of Regents in the Spring of 1947 in answer to student and faculty demands. It began operation during the fall semester of that year. The goal of the Activities Center was to enable a joint student-faculty coordination and participation in student and campus life. The student-faculty cooperative effort was to be augmented by a staff of professionals through whose help the Activities Center was "to bring efficiency and direction by coordinating and guiding existing student organizations, by assisting new groups in developing new programs, an by aiding individual students in planning a balanced program of activities." (As observed in a Review of Student Activities Center Program, April, 1948). At the time the Activities Center was organized, most of the social activities and student involvement in campus life were coordinated by living groups. As students' living arrangements gradually became more diffuse, the Activities Center became a more important central focal point coordinating their activities. The Activities Center, therefore, became a place of general guidance, assistance and counseling for student committees and concerns. Furthermore, it became a central repository for committee records where evaluations of past activities could be used for recommendations of procedures for future efforts. In this regard, on an annual basis, evaluations of past activities could be used for recommendations of procedures for future efforts. In this regard, on an annual basis, evaluative reports are filed with the Activities Center so that evaluations of the programs can be made; these reports are filed by Committee Chairmen, as well as by faculty advisors to individual committees. The Activities Center also played a supplemental role in reorganization of the student government. Prior to the formation of the Activities Center, and for some time after it began, the major student government organizational structure was the class governments. However, in time, and especially during the decade of the 1960s, the ASWSU (an organization of all students) superseded the class government system, and the class governments were discontinued in 1968. For the Activities Center this has meant that the role of the students, in directing and actually involving themselves in the workings of the Activities Center, has increased. What was once a joint student-faculty arrangement, in conjunction with professional administrators, has become more of a joint effort between students and professionals.
Radio services at Washington State University date to 1922, when station KFAE began in December, 1922; that subsequently became KWSC and then KWSU in 1969 (after Washington State College had become Washington State University ten years earlier in 1959). In about 1950, it instituted a "tape network," locally produced programs which were distributed on recording tape to commercial and non-commercial broadcasters in the state. When the National Public Radio network began in 1971, KWSU was one of the initial members. Through the 1980s, translator stations were established throughout parts of the Washington, and in adjacent Idaho and Oregon, and a network of stations based out of WSU and soon including Tri-Cities (KFAE), University of Idaho (KUID) and others began to form. This network of stations took the name Northwest Public Radio. Programming for these radio stations has long been a mix of local programming and programming acquired from the various public broadcasting networks and program distribution services.
For a fuller history of Washington State University radio, please see Burt Harrison's 1993 "Washington State On The Air".
The Washington State University Agriculture Research Center (ARC) is a part of WSU’s College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences (CAHNRS). The ARC began in 1892 as the Washington Agricultural Experiment Station, then an element of the Washington Agricultural College, Experiment Station, and School of Science, now Washington State University. Located near Pullman on a farm donated to the state, the station became the site of agricultural instruction and experimental work conducted by the staff of the station and the faculty of the College of Agriculture. It soon extended to branch stations across the state. In 1946 it became part of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences, and in 1965 it was integrated into the newly-organized Agricultural Research Center (ARC) of the College of Agriculture.Washington State’s commodity commissions are “industry-funded state agencies that promote and fund crop research and/or the marketing of crops.” The commissions are considered governmental agencies as they are state-mandated, but they are governed and funded by growers under the supervision of the state Director of Agriculture. The oldest Washington commodity commission, the Washington Apple Commission, dates to 1937.
Thomas W. Baird was an amateur radio operator in Spokane, Washington.
John Trowbridge, 1833-1904, was a Confederate soldier in the United States Civil War.
Charles Vancouver Piper was born in Victoria, British Columbia, and raised in Seattle Washington. He attended the Territorial University of Washington until 1892. He achieved prominence as a botanist, on staff at the Washington Agricultural College and School of Science (later WSU), and as a researcher with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Piper is credited with discovering Sudan grass, an African plant that was introduced to North America as a forage plant. He was greatly involved in the re-discovery of Meriwether Lewis' lost herbarium and encouraged the publications of journals of earlier plant explorers of the Northwest, such as Archibald Menzies and David Douglas.
The Washington State Office of Archaeology and Historic Preservation maintains a register of historic sites and buildings, and archaeological sites, for use by land planning offices, cultural agencies, and the general public. Information is assembled by a variety of means. In Whitman County the basic survey of historic sites was prepared by a contract research teams of four individuals, headed by Mary Reed of Pullman.
Herbert Claiborne Pell (1884-1961) was a Representative from New York from 1919-1921, U.S. Minister to Portugal from 1937-1941, U.S. Minister to Hungary from 1941-1942, and served as the United States representative on the United Nations War Crimes Commission from 1943-1945.
[source: Biographical Directory of the United States Congress]
A legislative enactment of 1890 founded Washington State University, originally called Washington Agricultural College and School of Science. Actual operation began in January 1892. The enabling act normally is used to date university events, and accordingly the 100th anniversary was observed in 1990.
A system of several committees had responsibility for the University centennial, while the Office of University Relations served as staff and coordinators. The principal coordinators, Dan Peterson and Sonia Hussa, maintained the records of the centennial activities and projects.
Originally called the Office of International Programs established in 1963 to coordinate and oversee the International Study Abroad programs. This program was reorganized in 1971 resulting in an apparent name change although the tasks of the office remained the same, coordinating programs with foreign student sponsoring agencies and universities. This program also appears to have encompassed NICSA (Northwest Interinstitutional Council on Study Abroad). The program underwent another reorganizing in the late 1980's resulting in the offices present day organization.
William Band was born in Liscard, Cheshire, England, on August 27, 1906, one of two sons born to William D. Band and Amy L. Cooke. He attended Liscard High School, where he excelled in Mathematics, and graduated in 1922 after satisfying the exams for the Higher School Certificate. At the University of Liverpool, which he entered in the fall of 1923, he concentrated in the study of physics and graduated with honors in 1926, winning the Oliver J. Lodge Prize. He became a candidate for the MsSc degree and graduated in 1927.
Upon graduation, Band served in China at Yenching University, a position he favored over study for a PhD at Cambridge. While on a short trip back to England in 1931, he married Claire May Edwards, whom he had met while teaching Sunday School at Liverpool. They arrived at Yenching on August 31, 1931, shortly before the Japanese invaded Manchuria on September 18. He was Chairman of the Physics department at Yenching until 1944, where, besides teaching quantum mechanics and relativity, he developed a research program for the MS degree.
Yenching University was founded in 1916 by John Leighton Stuart as a missionary institution in the continued effort to spread Christianity through education in China, under auspices of the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the United States and the Division of Foreign Missions of the Board of Missions of the Methodist Church of the United States and the United Kingdom.
Band's service at Yenching was interrupted as a result of the outbreak of war between the United States and Japan. Band and his wife were evacuated by the Chinese Communists with whom they spent over two years on a thousand mile journey to freedom until they reached Chunking in 1944. A book, Dragon Fangs, based on their diaries of wartime experiences in China, was published in 1947. It was published later in the United States under the title Two Years with the Chinese Communists.
Back in England on furlough, William Band was awarded his PhD by the University of Liverpool as a result of his research in physics. In 1946 he was granted a fellowship at the Institute for the Study of Metals of the University of Chicago where he stayed until 1949. In 1949 he moved to Washington State College as Professor of Physics. During each summer between 1955 and 1966 he worked as Senior Physicist at the Poulter Laboratories of the Stanford Research Institute, on the theory of shock propagation in solids. He was appointed Chairman of the Department of Physics at Washington State in 1960, and served in this position in 1968, continuing his research activities until well after his retirement in 1971, and publishing extensively in all the major professional journals. In 1972 he was honored by colleagues from all over the world for his Physical Cluster Theory. He also published an introduction to mathematical physics and an introduction to quantum statistics. He was a Fellow of the Institute of Physics and Physical Society, London, and Fellow of the American Physical Society. William Band died in 1993.
The Partnership for Rural Improvement (PRI) was established in 1976 with support from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation. It was formed as a consortium of educational institutions, public service agencies and citizens to act as a catalyst for community improvement. Its objectives include 1) identifying rural planning development goals, and 2) providing a mechanism and a process for linking citizen-defined goals with institutional and agency capacities for assisting communities in reaching those goals.
PRI is headquartered at Washington State University. Since its establishment, the PRI has involved itself in such programs as assistance to pregnant and parent teens, task forces on rural crime, rural transportation, and railroad abandonment. Records cover the period from 1972 to 1986.
Walter Franklin Horan (1898-1966) was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1942 as representative of the Fifth Congressional District of the State of Washington. He served a total of eleven consecutive terms, from 1943 to 1964, losing the 1964 election to Thomas Foley. He was a member of several sub-committees of the House Appropriations Committee: Agriculture, Legislative, State, Commerce, Justice, and Judiciary, and served as Chairman of the District of Columbia Committee. Horan was a Republican.
Horan was born in Wenatchee, Washington, in 1898. He served in the United States Navy during World War I, and attended Washington State University, receiving his A.B. degree in 1925. He worked as an orchardist in Wenatchee.
Washington Agricultural College first employed a botanist in 1893. A Department of Botany and Zoology came into existence in about 1895. A separate Botany Department was organized in 1907, and continues to the present (2000AD). The Botany faculty has included many well-known botanical scientists. Further documentation of the Botany Department can be found at the University Libraries, chiefly in the form of personal papers of various members of the faculty. See also WSU Publications 37.
Basketball has been an intercollegiate athletic event at Washington State University since early in the 20th century. Games have been filmed on a regular, but not comprehensive, basis since about 1960.
Mr. William F. Sollars was a cereal chemist. Born on December 1, 1913, he graduated from the University of Illinois as B.S. in 1941 and from Purdue University as M.S. in 1949. From 1945 to 1947 he worked as a chemist at Northern Regional Research Lab, Peoria, Illinois. He became a research chemist at Purdue Agricultural Experiment Station in 1947 and stayed there until 1949. From 1949 to 1974 he served as a chemist in the Western Wheat Quality Labratory, Agricultural Experiment Station, Washington State University. Mr. Sollars was a devoted researcher, a prolific paper contributor and an active professional among his colleagues throughout the United States. His academic endeavors are largely reflected in his papers. Mr. Sollars died in 1974.
Herbert Hoover was United States Secretary of Commerce when these materials were created.
Dr. Fekri Hassan was a Professor in the Department of Anthropology at Washington State University from 1983 to 1999. He received his Bachelor of Science and his Master of Science degrees from the Ain Shams University (Cairo, Egypt), in 1963 and 1966, respectively. Dr. Hassan also received his Master of Arts and his Ph.D. from Southern Methodist University, in 1971 and 1973. Dr. Hassan's research interests include: origins of agriculture and civilization, geoarchaeology, demographic and ecological archaeology, modeling and computer simulation, philosophy and Theory of Archaeology. He served as editor of the African Archaeological Review, and was an advisor to the Minister of Culture in the Arab Republic of Egypt from 1988 to 1990. After leaving WSU, Dr. Hassan became Petrie Professor of Archaeology at the Institute of Archaeology and Department of Egyptology at University College London, England.
The Washington Association of Wheat Growers was incorporated in January 1955. The expressed purposes of the organization are to: (1) improve strains and by-products, (2) develop new markets, (3) conserve natural resources, and (4) promote the interests of wheat growers. Headquartered in Ritzville, the Washington Association of Wheat Growers is a corporate member of the National Association of Wheat Growers.
Robins, Elizabeth. (married name: Mrs. George Richmond Parks; pseud. C.E. Raimond) ca. 1865-1952. American actress and author. Played principally in Ibsen.
Wrote: Below the salt (1896) The open question (1898) The magnetic north (1904) A dark lantern (1905) Come and find me (1908) The mills of the Gods (1908) and others. Also suffragist works. [New Century Cyclopedia of Names]
Thomas L. Kennedy (1930-2015) was born in Newark, NJ. He attended Xavier High School in New York City, and earned degrees from Villanova, Georgetown, and Columbia Universities. He served as an officer in the United States Marine Corps, and worked for the National Security Agency before joining the faculty of the Washington State University History Department in 1970. He was one of the organizers of the university's Asia Program, and also served the university in a variety of administrative roles. His research and scholarship focused on China, and he authored or co-authored several books, including The Arms of Kiangnan: Modernization in the Chinese Ordnance Industry, 1860-1895, Testimony of a Confucian Woman: The Autobiography of Mrs. Nie Zeng Jifen, 1852-1942, and Confucian Feminist: Memoirs of Zeng Baosun.
Clive Bell (1881-1964) and Vanessa Stephen married in 1907. Clive, an English art critic, and Vanessa, an English painter, designer, and older sister of Virginia Woolf, were at the center of the famous Bloomsbury group. In about 1907, this circle of artists and writers began gathering frequently in the Bells' home at 46 Gordon Square.
The office of Facilities and Planning did not exist as a full-time staffed administrative department at WSU until 1947. Prior to this a University Architect served as the construction officer of WSU dating to 1911. Facilities and Planning was later renamed as Facilities and Development in 1993, and then as Capital Planning in 2001. The office of Facilities Operations descended from the Physical Plant in 1998, which in turn descended from Building and Grounds in 1967. While each line of programs has existed separately some migration in function has occurred over the years. The primary difference between Capital Planning and Facilities Operations is the cost of the project in question.
The ASWSU (Associated Students of Washington State University) Activities Center serves the university by organizing, directing and generally over-seeing many campus-related student group activities. Administering of student organizations includes constant evaluation and advisement. The Activities Center was established with approval of the Board of Regents in the Spring of 1947 in answer to student and faculty demands. It began operation during the fall semester of that year. The goal of the Activities Center was to enable a joint student-faculty coordination and participation in student and campus life. The student-faculty cooperative effort was to be augmented by a staff of professionals through whose help the Activities Center was "to bring efficiency and direction by coordinating and guiding existing student organizations, by assisting new groups in developing new programs, an by aiding individual students in planning a balanced program of activities." (As observed in a Review of Student Activities Center Program, April, 1948). At the time the Activities Center was organized, most of the social activities and student involvement in campus life were coordinated by living groups. As students' living arrangements gradually became more diffuse, the Activities Center became a more important central focal point coordinating their activities. The Activities Center, therefore, became a place of general guidance, assistance and counseling for student committees and concerns. Furthermore, it became a central repository for committee records where evaluations of past activities could be used for recommendations of procedures for future efforts. In this regard, on an annual basis, evaluations of past activities could be used for recommendations of procedures for future efforts. In this regard, on an annual basis, evaluative reports are filed with the Activities Center so that evaluations of the programs can be made; these reports are filed by Committee Chairmen, as well as by faculty advisors to individual committees. The Activities Center also played a supplemental role in reorganization of the student government. Prior to the formation of the Activities Center, and for some time after it began, the major student government organizational structure was the class governments. However, in time, and especially during the decade of the 1960s, the ASWSU (an organization of all students) superseded the class government system, and the class governments were discontinued in 1968. For the Activities Center this has meant that the role of the students, in directing and actually involving themselves in the workings of the Activities Center, has increased. What was once a joint student-faculty arrangement, in conjunction with professional administrators, has become more of a joint effort between students and professionals.
Walter Hale Gardner (1917-2015) was a soil scientist and soil physics expert, and a member of the faculty at Washington State University from 1950 until his retirement in 1982. He earned his bachelor's (1939), master's (1946), and Ph.D. (1950) degrees from Utah State University. He served in the United States Army Air Corps during World War II. His film, "Water Movement in Soil" (1960), employing time-lapse photography techniques, was an especially important contribution to the field of soil physics.
The Yakima Cooperative Association was originally incorporated in August, 1934 under the name Farm Bureau Services, Inc. Farm Bureau Services, Inc. was created by a local group of farmers as a non-profit, non-stock cooperative to provide needed merchandise such as petroleum products, farm equipment and general supplies to the farmers of Yakima and Benton Counties. The Farm Bureau Services, Inc. opened its doors for business in May, 1935. The organization was sold to the Yakima Cooperative Association in March, 1938.
The Yakima Valley Grape Producers was established in 1934 as the Yakima Valley Grape Growers Association, a non-profit corporation, to sell the products of the members through the Association and its manager.
In 1949 the association was reorganized so that stock could be issued under new state non-profit corporation statutes. At this time all grower equities in the form of certificates of indebtedness in the Yakima Valley Grape Growers Association were exchanged for stock certificates in the Valley Grape Growers Association. Each member stockholder was permitted one vote only, regardless of the amount of Class A Common Voting Stock owned. A grower was required to own one share of Class A Common Voting Stock if he annually delivered 15 or more tons of grapes to the Association. While non-growers were permitted to hold stock they were not accorded voting privileges. This transfer of equity took place between 1949 and 1959.
In 1959 the Yakima Valley Grape Growers Association was legally dissolved, leaving only the Valley Grape Growers Association, which was renamed the Yakima Valley Grape Producers in 1960.
A legislative enactment of 1890 founded Washington State University, originally called Washington Agricultural College and School of Science. Actual operation began in January 1892. The enabling act normally is used to date university events, and accordingly the 100th anniversary was observed in 1990.
A system of several committees had responsibility for the University centennial, while the Office of University Relations served as staff and coordinators. The principal coordinators, Dan Peterson and Sonia Hussa, maintained the records of the centennial activities and projects.
Prior to resale and purchase, this material was in the possession of Joan Daves’s family (Joan Daves was Freund’s American literary agent).
The papers of Arthur M. Johnson, 1878-1945, were donated to the Washington State University Herbarium in 1946 by Mrs. Johnson.
Mart Howard's son Louis, who was 14 at the time of his trip to the Klondike and who was later Dean Of Mining at Washington State University, saved his father's papers until his own death in 1944. His widow then preserved the papers until she deposited then with the WSU Library in 1958.
Originally in the possession of W. Sunderland family.
The papers of William C. Cusick, 1842-1922, of Union County, Oregon, were acquired by the Washington State University Herbarium about 1921, along with Cusick’s Second Herbarium
Robert Ackerman and John Bodley, WSU anthropology professors, acquired the papers from an unknown source who retrieved it from the ruins of the Colfax Lodge, No. 14, of the Independent Order of Odd Fellow, which was extensively damaged in a fire in 1993.
The provenance on these materials is confusing at best. They were donated to the WSU College of Veterinary Medicine ca. early 2021 by former faculty member Dr. Jack Alexander. They came in a set of materials tied to Dr. Harry Keown (1911-2007), another former faculty member. Within those, they were in an envelope, dated April, 1987 and addressed to Keown from Mr. and Mrs. R.W. Bailey of Placerville, CA. However, given that the envelope contained a variety of document from Keown’s life, it seems likely he simply reused the envelope and the materials had no tie to the Baileys. Further, neither Alexander nor Keown served in WWII, and so far as we can tell neither has any ties to the events in these images. In short, the full provenance of the materials is a mystery.
When he left the University, Compton removed from the office files the documents found in the folder entitled "E.O. Holland, 1944-1950" (Folder 191). These he retained in his personal possession until his death. Later these were transferred to the College of Wooster Library with another sequence of his personal materials. In 1996, the Wooster Archivist transferred the documents to Washington State University Libraries.
Although the materials almost certainly originated from the WSU President's Office, the exact provenance of this collection is unclear. The records were originally kept as a WSU publication (WSU 131). The records were redesignated as University Archives 262, but was not properly arranged or described, before being processed under its current designation.
Dr. S. P. McPherson's home in Chewelah, Washington, had formerly been the Indian Agency building and office as well as the last known residence of Simms and the papers were found in the attic.
The Tokichi Okazaki papers were found in an old laundry in Pasco, Washington in 1967.
Letterbooks, ledgers, accounts, reports and other papers of the New York Brewery, Spokane, Washington.
Manuscript contains: Sonnets in the library, the Tyne, In Anna's reign, A few bookish rhymes, Nine sonnets dedicated to Robert Bridges, Twelve sonnets dedicated to Mrs. Mary Cowden-Clarke, Fourteen miscellaneous sonnets.
Property and siting records consist of reports, projects, memos, correspondence, pictures, and newspaper articles. These make up two record series. The first concern the sites for branch campuses. The second concerned the acquisition and management of property by the university. Many of these properties are adjacent or near the central campus at Pullman.
A large portion of the records are committee records from building and locating committees. These files are inclusive of copies of many documents. The original and primary copies of these are maintained in the records of the Office of Facilities Development.
Concerning the Vance Flying Wing aircraft and aviation design from the 1930s. Also includes contracts and related aircraft registration documents.
The images were taken by employees of the Engineering Extension office, and document the programs, research, and day-to-day life of the faculty, students, and staff of the College of Engineering and Architecture. Many of the originals to photographs found in Quest and other Engineering and Architecture publications can be found within this collection.
The Takeda Family Papers consist primarily of records, photographs, and clippings gathered by Terry Takeda. Most of the documents in this collection were removed from a scrapbook in order to provide better access and preservation conditions for the documents. The records contained in the collection are vital records about Shiro and Hisako Takeda, a copy of Terry Takeda’s authorization for permanent leave from the incarceration camps, and records related to Shiro Takeda’s service to the United States Navy as a Japanese language instructor. Photographs are of Shiro Takeda prior to World War II and the Takeda family during their time at Heart Mountain Relocation Center, Wyoming. Also included in the collection is a blanket used by Shiro Takeda at Heart Mountain.
This collection consists of correspondence between Hamtonetta Burgess Carr and her family and friends, including her sister Catherine Burgess Carr, between 1881 and 1933. The letters discuss Hamtonetta's school days at Swarthmore College, the family's movement westward, and Catherine's commercial experiences in northern Idaho. A number of the letters are between Catherine and her husband, William H. Carr, while she was traveling in Idaho in 1914. Additional correspondents include an Aunt Sarah Burgess and Mary P. Burgess.
Collection includes postcards from Nebraska, a Carr memorandum, newspaper clippings, a marriage certificate, a Harley-Davidson "Motorcycles and Sidecars" brochure, and a photograph titled "The 'King' is no more." The photo depicts the largest known white pine tree chopped down in Latah County, Idaho by Potlatch Lumber Co. in 1911. The reverse side of the photograph has typed details about the tree.
Relative to participation in the Wright Campaign of 1858.
The collection consists of five cassette tapes, five newspaper clippings, and a folder of printed transcripts of the tapes. Topics include civil rights activities and race relations in Spokane Washington, the influence of Dr. Martin Luther King, racism and protests in the deep south, and civil rights spirituals.
The collection consists primarily of biographical files covering employees past and present in WSU's Extension-oriented programs, as well as selected significant WSU administrators and other personnel. Also included is a CD containing an Excel file listing all Extension employees from beginning to early 2009, a small number of photographs, and approximately 1000 slides collected by CAHNRS and Extension.
It should be noted that the biographical files were carefully parsed by Extension/CAHNRS personnel before their transfer to MASC so as to remove private information including but not limited to identification numbers, salary information, home contact information, and hire/termination files. The remaining files usually consist of basic professional histories and photographs. It appears that the department began keeping the files in the late 1960s; coverage of employees who left before that period is limited.
The collection consists of correspondence from Geoffrey Wells to the American essayist, critic, and naturalist Henry Chester Tracy. Wells wrote on a variety of subjects in these letters, but often focused on literary subjects. The correspondence begins in 1927 with a letter to Tracy as part of his research for his biography of Annie Besant; later letters mention his other writing projects, and Tracy's comments on them, and Wells's responses to many of Tracy's writings. Other topics include the review and promotion of Tracy's books in England, and matters concerning many of their acquaintances in literary and publishing circles, including Middleton Murry, Leonard Woolf, Desmond McCarthy, A.R. Orage, Stanley Unwin, Christopher and F. V. Morley, and Fredric Warburg. He also discussed politics and the impending world war, and, occasionally, personal matters.
Records of the Whitman County Democratic Committee consist of minutes, platforms, vote lists, and subject files. The records span the years 1948-1980, but appear to be incomplete. For example, the years 1948-1954, 1972-1976, and 1977 on are covered by little material. However, the years 1954-1972, and 1976 are well represented.
The Gisele Freund Papers consist primarily of correspondence and book reviews relating to her American publications that appeared in print between 1980 and 1985.
Series 1, Publishing Projects and Correspondence, 1975-1990, consists of material relating to her published work, including correspondence between Freund and Joan Daves, her American literary agent, Freund’s introduction to Three Days with Joyce (1985), and other material relating to publishing rights, royalties, and contractual matters.
Series 2, Photographs, 1933-1974, includes prints, proofs and mock-ups, chiefly relating to the publication of her photography books and photographic exhibitions.
Series 3, Printed Material, 1968-1985, contains selected writings by and about Freund.
Series 4, Biographical and Provenance Material, 1982-2000, includes clippings and copies from encyclopedia entries.
Included in these materials are data relating to the development of the Department and its teaching activities, planning of the Performing Arts Coliseum, and typed manuscripts for three publications of E.E. Ettlich.
The collection consists primarily of records and papers relating to the Pullman campus of WSC's administration of National Youth Administration projects. Papers range from summary level program documents to sheets on individual projects (jobs). Most of the papers come from 1936-1939 and from 1941-1943.
The collection consists of nine architectural and landscape blueprints, approximately 10" x 15" in size, and one 56" x 32" folded drawing of interior details. They document the house originally built for Dr. A.A. Rounds, and the surrounding land.
37 black and white photographs of Everett and Lowell, Washington, taken during 1891 and 1892. The description in the item list below comes (excepting item numbers and the one date, which are taken from the photographs themselves) verbatim from captions pasted below the images.
This collection consists of published addresses of American railroad executive James J. Hill (pamphlets).
This collection consists of two muster rolls, a listing of enlisted men and officers, and their locations and assignments, in the First Regiment of Infantry of the United States Army dated 1832, during the Black Hawk War. Both rolls are signed by Col. Zachary Taylor, the regiment's commanding officer and future 12th president of the United States. Officers listed include second lieutenant Jefferson Davis.
The Gordon Brothers General Merchandise Ledgers consist of two ledgers dating from 1898 to 1901. The ledgers contain records of purchases and expenditures by store patrons, as well as information about shipments from suppliers. Goods traded included food, dry goods, medicine, tools, seeds, and school supplies, to name a few. Some notable patrons were the Hoopers, Ai Camp, David Bowman, and John McGregor.
The collection consists of a number of photos taken over the period of the construction of several dams, from very early stages to near completion.
The collection consists of three very separate sets of materials. There is one 104 page scrapbook containing approximately 356 black-and-white photographs, most about 3.5" x 5.5" in size. A few are 7.5" x 9.5". Most photographs are both captioned and dated; all dates are in the 1918-1919 range, excepting a dozen or so 1925 photos. Based solely on descriptions of images, we theorize this scrapbook to have originally been created by some sort of government agency, though which one is unclear.
The other, loose, photographs primarily relate to the business of the North Pacific Grain Growers Company, and most focus on grain terminals built or run by them on the Columbia and Snake Rivers. These frequently lack identifiers and dates.
Finally, 1/4 linear feet of space is NPGG records, almost all of which relate to the ownership and operation of the NPGG's Spokane grain terminal.
Also present are two CDs containing 96dpi jpeg image scans from the scrapbook and the loose items, created by the donor.
The collection consists chiefly of garden, nursery and seed catalogs, rounded out by miscellaneous garden magazines, pamphlets, brochures, similar materials. The earliest of the catalogs is dated 1866, while the newest is from 1994. A few of the pamphlets are of even earlier years.
This collection consists of records of St. Gall Catholic Church and Parish in Colton, Washington. It contains ledgers, correspondence, souvenirs and photographs from 1889-1943, as well as a membership directory from 1993, the 100th anniversary of the parish, which includes an updated church and parish history. The records include a sermon by the Rev. James Frei, St. Gall first priest, as well as many records of the Ernest Becker family and miscellaneous materials on the history of Colton.
This collection consists of three intaglio prints by Andrew Bell (1726-1809). All three were published as illustrations in an unidentified book or books, but were removed from the volumes at an unknown date. Andrew Bell produced illustrations for the earliest editions of Encyclopaedia Britannica and also for William Smellie's English translation of Buffon's Natural History, General and Particular. These items are most likely from an 18th-century edition of the latter title.
The dimensions of the leaves are approximately 12.5 x 21 cm.
This collection contains materials related to piano teacher Charles Stanton Benson. It includes personal diaries, photographs, and estate papers, as well as music-related items, such as compositions, recital programs, student ledgers, and newspaper clippings on his studio.
A. M. Johnson's papers at Washington State University consist of notes, drafts and drawings used in his study of the genus Saxifraga.
Family and school records, correspondence with James S. Smith, and publication of the Huntley National Association.
This collection consists primarily of photographs (black and white prints) documenting the construction of the Dworshak Dam on the North Clearwater River, Idaho. It also includes a small amount of printed material related to the dam, copies of speeches by Senator Len Jordan and Brigadier General Peter Hyzer from the dedication of the dam, and a file of correspondence about the acquisition of the collection.
Correspondence, chiefly with the United States Office of Education and the Commission to Study the Organization of Peace, relating to the appointment of a Center of Information and Training on the Washington State University campus.
This collection consists of documents related to Leroy Olsen's research in educational psychology. It includes his master's thesis and dissertation, reports of government-funded studies, and unpublished manuscripts.
This small collection is made up of print materials and reel-to-reel audio tapes related to racism workshops held by Washington State University in the early 1970s.
Includes an additional copy of the manuscript entitled "Reminiscences of Benjamin (Ben) Burgunder: about 1916." Same text of 15 pages. Burgunder's material is also identified as "Reminiscences of a pioneer," 1920.
This collection consists of a single item: a World War II memoir (photocopied transcription) by Donald E. Bennett (Washington State College class of 1943). Bennett was assigned to Company C, 411th Infantry Regiment, 103rd Division, 7th Army. The memoir begins in September 1944 when his unit was shipped to France, and concludes with his return to the United States in February 1945, for hospital treatment after he was wounded in combat.
Chiefly typed letters, signed. Includes seven letters to Stafford from editor Thomas Parkinson.
The papers of Millard Hastay consist of research materials and drafts associated with research projects, both at the National Bureau of Economic Research and at Washington State University, as well as correspondence, memoranda, and a variety of documents concerning economics classes and graduate education at Washington State University. The arrangement is that in use by Hastay at the time the papers were transferred to the Libraries.
This collection consists of five volumes containing minutes, reports, and notices of the trustees, directors, officers and shareholders meetings of the Soundview Pulp Company.
This collection consists of records of the Washington State University (WSU) Panhellenic Council relating to Rush procedures, as well as meeting minutes for the council and the Fraternity Welfare Advisory Committee. The collection also contains a series of "Programming Newsletters" published by the WSU Department of Residence Living, and a small assortment of notes from the Western Regional Panhellenic Council Vice President from 1979-1980.
Cooperative research projects have involved matters such as the development of plant varieties, control of plant diseases, control of weeds, and the production of seeds. In the years from 1931 to 1970, attention focused on cereals, especially wheat. Some investigations involved grasses.
Annual reports of cooperative research projects summarize activities and typically are bound in book form.
Correspondence, clippings, poster, and photocopies and transcripts of correspondence by and about the Eells, their missionary work in Oregon and among the Spokane Tribe, and the 1847 Whitman Massacre. Of the approximately twenty-five items in this collection, the bulk is of the nature of photocopies and typescript transcripts. However, there is a letter of Mrs. Eells to her sister written in 1853, and a manuscript draft of a diary-like reminiscence of the first month of the Eells' journey west in 1838. This draft has been amended and annotated as if for publication. Much of this material was secured by Clifford M. Drury prior to 1938.
Unidentified newspaper clipping from the collection of Mrs. Thorburn Ross, Portland, Oregon.
Ethel M. Womack papers, primarily travel albums, diaries, and collected pamphlets and memorabilia from vacations. Most of the destinations are in the United States, from trips taken between the 1930s and 1970s. Also scrapbooks that are not travel-related, a small amount of family correspondence (Walter Womack World War II letters), and items related to the U.S. Naval Training Station at Farragut, ID (one pamphlet and three group photographs showing Company 1712, Section 2; Company 1712; and Company 38, 8th Battalion, 2nd regiment; all circa 1942-1945).
Preliminary inventory:
Box 1. Travel albums.
Box 2. Travel albums (continued), travel diaries, and scrapbooks.
Box 3. Loose album pages; collected pamphlets and memorabilia; scrapbook.
Oversize folder (in boxed oversize): Items related to U.S. Naval Training Station, Farragut, ID.
Box 4. Files: family history notes; photographs (negatives, slides, prints); baby books; photograph albums, 1930s-1940s and circa 1910s-1920s (2 items).
Box 5. Photograph albums and scrapbooks, circa 1913-1960, circa 1950s, circa 1940s-1950s, 1940-1961, 1940-1960, 1930s-1940s (6 items).
Box 6. Photograph albums, 1920s, 1940s, 1946-1950 (3 items); small travel album, Washington State, 1950s.
Box 7. Photograph album (disbound), circa 1910-1969; loose photographs.
Old family papers, consisting of Johnson and Crawford family material. Includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, account statements, real estate documents, and wills.
The Johnson family represented in this collection is the Emmett Johnson family of Clarkston, WA. Family members represented include Lorena (Mrs. Emmett) Johnson, nee Crawford, Theresa Johnson, James B. Johnson, and Minnie Johnson. In addition to correspondence, newspaper clippings, and legal documents, these materials also include papers related to Minnie Johnson's career as a public school teacher in Washington and Idaho. The Johnson family papers include some documents related to Mr. and Mrs. C.M. Kuykendall and Mr. and Mrs. C.E. Kuykendall.
The Crawford family represented in this collection is the Arch Crawford family of Umatilla County, OR. These materials include correspondence and account statements, many relating to the family's business activities, and a temperance pamphlet.
There are also four letters with no apparent collection to the Old, Johnson, or Crawford families, from Joseph Swain in Oregon to his sister Mary Swain in Massachusetts (1865-1866).
Paper read at the Annual Meeting of the Society of American Archivists, October 25, 1938.
Manuscript map of the Battle of James Island, better known as the Battle of Secessionville, 16 June 1862, drawn by Hazard Stevens. Stevens' father, Brigadier General Isaac Stevens, was involved in this battle. The map may have been prepared for use in Hazard Stevens' biography of his father, Life of Isaac Ingalls Stevens (Boston; New York: Houghton Mifflin, 1900).
A letter by poet George Crabbe to H. Crewfoot, requesting a statement of his debt, unknown year, December 10.
A thesis written by Douglas L. Kerr looking at the history of the Educational Theatre Program at the State College of Washington, 1923-1946. "A project submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Master of Arts, Washington State University Department of Speech, 1971."
Diary kept at Sturgis, Michigan, during the Civil War. Includes 2 pages of correspondence between Sam R. Sumner and E.O. Holland re: the keeping of the diary.
The James P. Leynse papers consist of four manuscripts plus a small correspondence file. Beauty for Ashes is an autobiography of his life in China and was the principal source for the preceding biography. Before the Mayflower and Dream Come True are novels concerning the lives of a Puritan family who fled from England to Holland to escape English religious persecution in the 17th century. The family eventually became part of the group of Pilgrims who sailed for America. Fly the Dragon is the fictional story of a Chinese boy during the early 20th century who rebels against the ancient traditions of his family and strikes out on his own. This story offers a view of Chinese society and the struggle against the traditions which hindered Chinese modernization in the 20th century.
Leynse's autobiography is significant in that it provides a picture of life in Peking and the surrounding countryside from the 1920s through the 1940s. Leynse encountered many of the individuals who molded the history of China during the first half of the 20th century. His character sketches of Chiang K'ai-shek, Madame Chiang, the last Ch'ing emperor Pu-yi, members of the Nationalist government (T. V. Soong and others), Mao Tse-tung, Chou Enlai, and Chu Teh are thoughtful and vividly drawn. Leynse's particular style and strong viewpoint--that of a Western Christian missionary dedicated to helping the Chinese people--do not obscure an interesting glimpse of China in poverty, war, and revolution.
Included in the last folder of the papers are letters received from Leynse's son, Humphrey. This correspondence dates from the year 1964.
Clippings, correspondence, notes, photographs, broadsides, brochures and other papers of and about the Palouse Country Improvement Company and the Pullman Chamber of Commerce.
Autograph letter, signed, from Virginia Woolf to the art historian H. R. Wackrill, thanking him for sending her a copy of his book The Inscription over the Gate, a study of William Blake's watercolor of Dante and Virgil at the gate of Hell.
Maps and drawings of campus and specific buildings dating to 1970s and 1980s retrofitting for greater handicapped access.
Primarily contains specification reports for several small scale projects such as the development of a Bee Research Facility and McCroskey Hall from 1965-1979.
The Ida Louise Anderson Papers are comprised of several types of items. Correspondence includes letters between Anderson and WSC president Ernest O. Holland and WSC vice-president Herbert Kimbrough concerning her resignation and retirement, and letters concerning plans for a memorial publication commemorating Anderson's life. Other material includes scrapbooks and large-size single leaves on which Anderson typed favorite passages from literary works. Also included are handwritten lists of books that Anderson had read during the 1920s, along with favorite quotations from several of them. Finally, the collection includes several copies of Ida Lou Anderson: A Memorial, a small volume published by the State College of Washington c.1942. It includes tributes to Anderson from WSC president E. O. Holland, Edward R. Murrow, Maynard Daggy, and other friends and relatives.
This collection consists of the papers of the Webb family of Pullman, Washington, mostly related to Everett M. Webb and Louise Ott Webb, with a small amount related to their children, Elizabeth, Richard, and Dorothy. Everett Webb's papers include office files from his career at Washington State University (WSU), and material related to his work with the Future Farmers of America (FFA), the Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity (TKE), and his involvement with the American Legion. Louise Ott Webb's papers include records related to the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority (KKG) and her involvement with the American Legion Auxiliary. The collection contains correspondence, minutes, ephemera, newspaper clippings, reports, photographs, and financial records.
Shows fields under cultivation, equipment and techniques, and evidence of erosion. A few of the photos have narrative captions, but most have only reference numbers.
Collection consists of ephemera collected by Frank Abe related to Japanese American redress for the forced expulsion and incarceration of Japanese and Japanese Americans during World War II. Mr. Abe produced and directed the award-winning documentary “Conscience and the Constitution”, chronicling resistance to the military draft by a group of young men incarcerated at Heart Mountain, Wyoming during World War II. The collection includes business cards, a flyer and viewer guide for “Conscience and the Constitution”, and printed materials related to Japanese American redress.
Poems written by James E. Lindsay. Includes handwritten notes by the author. Written in Pullman, Washington. 1673 manuscript by Thomas Bromley on typology and symbolism in the Bible. Text includes unpaginated preface, pages numbered 1-189, and unpaginated end pages. Text also exhibits library markings, slight annotations, interlineations, and catchwords.
This collection consists primarily of Bob Wethern's research materials, notes, and drafts related to two substantial but unfinished writing projects. Most of this material consists of reproductions (annotated photocopies and photographic reproductions) collected for a project Wethern undertook in partnership with artist David Hagerbaumer. This project, "The Waterfowler's Pacific Flyway," was planned as a work of anecdotes and history framed geographically by the Pacific flyway. This migratory path of birds, mostly waterfowl, stretches from the Arctic region in the far north to Central America in the south. The files for Wethern's flyway project include correspondence; documentation from interviews; newspapers and other printed material; copies of archival documents; files of historical materials collected by Wethern; photographs; and manuscript drafts of some sections and chapters.
The second project, "Tackle Counter Tales," was planned as a published collection of fishing and hunting anecdotes. Wethern divided the project into two parts, "Hunting Humor" and "Fishing Funnies." The files for this unfinished project include Wethern's notes and collected research materials, as well as drafts.
Note about dates: in the Container List below, the dates given for photocopied materials generally reflect the dates of Wethern's research activity, when the material was reproduced and the copies were collected, rather than the dates of the original items.
This collection consists of files from the ASWSU from 1999-2001. Files include bills, agendas, resolutions, and minutes.
The collection consists of 48 images from 1909-1911, primarily commercially produced postcards with a very few personal photographs included. The image depict student life and the campus of Washington State College.
Land grant to Kimball B. Mercer, Washington County, Oregon.
Typescript, compiled by L. D. Leeper, of reminiscences of pioneers of Southeastern Washington State. Including accounts of J. M. Brown, Omer Flemming, John L. Knox, Alex McGregor, Charles E. Ray, R. D. Smith, Mrs. John Splater, and J. I. Wigen.
The collection consists of administrative documents of the Health and Safety committee from 1956-1969. It includes committee meeting notes, and correspondence with local law enforcement and safety concern reports. Also includes handwritten notes from committee members during meetings. The collection contains all these elements for each school year.
The collection consists of correspondence and records of the Northwest Horticultural Council, spanning the period 1953 through 1977, and relating to the opening of the Northwest fruit industry to new markets, materials on railroad rates, Interstate Commerce Commission rules and rulings, council bulletins, testimonies before Congress, fruit statistics, and personal records of Ernest Falk.
Series one, Correspondence, covers the years 1961 through 1977, and makes up about half the collection. It deals with a wide variety of matters concerning the Council: United States legislative aid for Northwest fruit marketing abroad, government regulations regarding pesticides, labor relations, labor organization and regulations, migrant labor and ideas for improving the fruit products of Washington and Oregon. Some of the letters concern the efforts of grower organizations to coordinate lobbying and promotional activities.
Series two, Exports, includes records of Northwest fruit industry executive contacts in foreign countries ranging from members of the European Common Market through the Middle East to the Far East and Latin America. These documents record the efforts of American industry representatives to open new markets for Northwest products such as cherries or apples, and negotiations with United States and foreign officials concerning trade and tariff regulations in various countries.
Series three, transportation, records Council negotiations and lobbying with the federal government on railroad rates and regulation and also a number of court cases concerning railroad rates. Interstate Commerce Commission rules and rulings fill several documents. Furthermore, Council meetings with other West Coast Shippers on sea transport and international shipping rates constitute a major element in these letters.
Series Four combines a variety of miscellaneous letters stretching from 1953 to 1977. They include extensive correspondence of the Northwest Horticultural Council Board of Trustees, Council Bulletins from 1970 to 1975, Council testimonies before Congress between 1953 and 1967, fruit statistics from 1967 to 1970, a survey of the European apple and pear production and marketing, and personal records of Ernest Falk.
The Owen Science and Engineering Library Dedication, 1979 March 29, consists of one cassette tape. It was abstracted in 1979 by Margot H. Knight.
The records of the Atlantic-Seaboard Merger Case are composed of published applications for merger, statements, reports, and exhibits of parties favoring or opposing the merger, over five thousand pages of arguments before the ICC, and the final report of the examiners. Briefs of intervenors, who between 1964 and 1967 had appealed the ICC report first to the U.S. District Court in Jacksonville, Florida, and then to the U.S. Supreme Court, are included in the records as well as the various court decisions.
The correspondence, though limited, reflects the intimate working relationship between Edwin H. Burgess, representing the Mercantile Safe Deposit and Trust Company, with the legal department of the Atlantic and the executives of the Seaboard.
This biography of Cynthia Catherine Holbrook is titled "Statement of my past life." It presents pioneer reminiscences, chiefly of the Almota, Washington, area.
These materials were received in multiple installments, accessioned separately as described below.
MS 1984-42: This collection contains professional papers of Dr. James S. Englund, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Washington State University. The papers pertain to a variety of topics, including the Dow Chemical Company, solar energy, solar water purifier, solar sterilization, combustion, acoustics, vibrations, noise reduction, heat pumps, the Chicago Fire Brick Company, mechanical and electrical equipment for buildings, and the Bonneville Dam. The collection also contains faculty and teaching notes, incoming and outgoing correspondence, research proposals, technical drawings, transparencies, and photographs.
MS 1984-52: This collection consists of research records from the 1970s to the 1980s pertaining to WSU's solar energy project with Washington Water Power, creating a house in Spokane, WA, heated by solar energy (referred to as the Chevron Project, and supported by the Chevron Research Company), and energy conservation with the Bonneville Power Administration. The collection also includes records and research material for projects on environmental engineering, noise in food processing plants, Englund's work with math and science classes at the Pullman High School, and roller rinks. Additionally, the collection contains incoming and outgoing correspondence, professional contact records, and teaching materials.
A biography of Yeend, soprano with the New York City Opera Company, author unknown.
This collection consists of checklists, notes, and manuscripts of botanist Wilhelm Suksdorf.
This collection consists of a single item: a ledger containing the financial records of a Bridgeport, Washington, lumber yard.
Signed holograph by William Makepeace Thackeray to a Mr. Gibson, undated.
The collection consists mainly of memoranda, correspondence, minutes, and reports of the Washington State University Agricultural Engineering Department, arranged into 4 series. The bulk of the material dates from 1947-1973, during June Roberts' departmental chairmanship.
Series 1. Alphabetical Subject File, 1937-1974, consists of general departmental office files, 1937-1979, and is divided into two subseries. Washington State University covers activities at Washington State University and affiliated work in the state of Washington, 1937-1974. The bulk of the material dates from 1947-1973, during June Roberts' departmental chairmanship, and consists mainly of memoranda, correspondence, minutes, and reports. West Pakistan University File 1954-1971, consist almost exclusively of correspondence among Pullman-based office personnel, staff members in Pakistan, and potential employees.
Series 2. Professional Organizations, 1947-1974, deals with three organizations in which June Roberts was an active member. The materials especially stress activities of the American Society of Agricultural Engineers, where Mr. Roberts held many national offices.
Series 3. Photographs, 1934-1974. The prints and negatives are mainly of research projects. Many photographs within the machinery files are items provided by manufacturing companies.
Series 4. Financial Ledgers, 1932-1973. These ledgers contain a noncontiguous record of the accounts of the department, concentrating on research activities. The series also contains the ledgers of accounts for the Washington Council on the Relationship of Electricity to Agriculture, a major source of funding for the department's early research and extension work. The records indicate that the name was changed to the present Washington Farm Electrification Committee around 1947.
Records from the Washington State Board of Natural Resources, as collected by one of our campus Deans, who was a member of that committee, and originally maintained in his papers. These were separated out when his papers were processed,
This collection consists of audio recordings (eight audiocassettes) of an oral history interview of John B. Hitchcock by Nancy Talbot Doty, the transcription of the oral history entitled "Out of Ocosta," and related documentation of Hitchcock's life.
This collection includes papers of Edward F. and Xerpha Mae McCulloch Gaines consisting of letters between them, correspondence with their children, other correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs, research notes for both Edward. and Xerpha, a few professional papers, and some genealogical information. Of note in E.F. Gaines's "letter box" (subseries 2.4) is his correspondence with pioneers in plant genetics, many with State College of Washington (WSC) connections. Other items of interest include the courtship letters from Edward to Xerpha.
This collection consists of a single item: "Problems and Procedures of Demonstrating the Presence of an Early Assemblage at the Little's Landing Site," by Michael G. Avey (master's thesis for M.A. in Anthropology, Washington State University; photocopy).
Pamphlets describing and promoting Deaconess Hospital and Deaconess School of Nursing in Spokane, WA; also commencement programs.
Typescript of Annie G. Gragg's reminiscences on frontier life in Washington State.
This collection consists of 16mm films of veterinary surgical procedures, mostly on horses and dogs, including Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew. It also contains logs with procedures performed and associated film roll numbers.
Typescript letter about the Inland Empire Teachers Association. This letter is addressed from Noah David Showalter in Cheney, Washington, to R.N. Wright in Lewiston, Idaho, February 26, 1911.
A photocopied two-page weaving pattern for the WSU cougar head logo, plus two photographs of the finished design, as well as one page of correspondence about it.
Marion Ownbey's papers consist of correspondence, research materials, drafts of writings, and field notes, all relating to his activities as a plant taxonomist and geneticist. The correspondence contains many extensive personal reflections on problems of plant taxonomy, on the revision of the genera Allium, Calochortus and Castellija, and on his classic observations of the genetic behavior of the genus Tragopogon. Research notes on all of these projects provide complementary documentation. Ownbey's papers also contain materials relative to herbarium administration, composition of Vascular Plants of the Pacific Northwest, and matters involving teaching and research at Washington State University.
Letter by poet George Crabbe to his son, the Reverend George Crabbe, 1825 April 7.
Letter, with envelope, to Charley Ratcliffe's sweetheart, Louise Bressler, in Belleville, Illinois. In the letter, Ratcliffe mentions a woman attacked by Native Americans and the attempt to lynch the Indians in Cheney, Washington.
The collection consists primarily of photographs of activities, attendees, and personnel at Camp Manitowish and Camp Easter Seal (later Camp Larson), a WSC-sponsored campus for handicapped children, located on the west shore of Lake Coeur d’Alene. The majority of the images are unlabeled and undated. They appear to have been collected by Roger Larson, but were created by any number of photographers for WSC/WSU.
Minutes of annual and semi-annual meetings of the Washington Public Utility Commissioners' Association, executive board meetings, special committee reports; also 3 p. concerning the Public Power Conference.
Autograph album with autographs and photographs of Chinese students at Washington State University. Also includes an undated typescript (carbon) list of student names.
This collection contains material related to Richard Old's research on noxious weeds from. The collection is largely comprised of records from agencies dedicated to weed control in Washington, Idaho, and Montana, data collected on noxious weeds in eastern Washington, and grant applications for the study of weeds. Among the agencies Old worked particularly closely with was the Washington State Noxious week Control Board. Also included are records from the City of Pullman Environmental Quality Committee from 1998, forensic work performed by Old for a legal case, and materials related to Old's work as a lecturer on local weeds.
MS.1996.37
This accession mainly contains records related to Old's work on noxious weeds, including records from agencies dedicated to controlling weeds, grant applications, and data on the existence of noxious weeds, particularly in Whitman County. This accession contains a large quantity of minutes and communications from the Washington State Noxious Weed Control Board. It also contains materials from the City of Pullman about environmental quality and weed control.
MS.1998.33
This accession contains minutes, correspondence, and notes for Washington State Noxious Weed Control Board (1995-1996), Eastern Washington Weed Control Directors Association (1988-1994), Whitman County Noxious Weed Control Board (1996). It also contains weed identification forms (1996) and weed data (1989). In addition, the accession contains materials from the City of Pullman Environmental Quality Commity (1998), on which Old served.
MS.2016.07
This accession contains Weed ID details and annual summaries, 2008-2012.
This collection includes correspondence, writings, publications, diaries, notes, news clippings, scrapbooks, programs, posters, and photographs. One noteworthy item is a description of a trip down Hells Canyon and the Snake River gorge in 1947.
This collection contains papers of Clarence B. Harston (1911-2009), a Soils and Water Conservationist with Washington State University Cooperative Extension. The collection primarily consists of reports and publications pertaining to WSU Extension and public planning for Whitman County, WA. This collection also contains copies of state legislation and official reports on waste management.
Preliminary Inventory:
Box 1: Copies of state legislation (1970), research materials, published articles, as well as state and county reports pertaining to a solid waste plan for Whitman County, WA between 1967 and 1980.
Box 2: Copies of WSU Extension Office publications and reports on environmental education, as well as pamphlets and state guidelines on waste management (1972-1975).
Articles of incorporation, minutes, and legal papers of the Oakdale Lumber Company, a sawmill operator at La Center, Washington, 1906-1913.
The collection contains of minutes, agendas, and supplementary materials from meeting of the WSU Executive Budget Committee during the 1990-2003 fiscal years. The committee dealt with most of WSU's higher-level budget functions, including operating budgets, biennial budget requests to the legislature, budget allocation, retirement funding, and accruals.
Autograph letter by Rose Macaulay, signed, discussing Fletcher's fiction writing.
Primarily consists of hiring statistics related to the implementation of Affirmative Action from 1972-1977. Includes legal documents related to complaints against Washington State University for hiring based based on race and sex after the implementation of Affirmative Action and Title IX. Also contains reports related to Equal Employment Opportunities.
Collection of photographs from the Bill Walter Studio, Colfax, Washington. The bulk of the collection is safety film negatives, but it also contains many photographs, some oversize and panoramic.
Highlights of the collection include a glass plate negative of the former Colfax Courthouse (torn down in the 1950's), a plethora of images depicting Palouse agriculture, both early and early modern farm machinery, local businesses, and calamities such as the Oakesdale Grain Growers Elevator Fire in 1970 and the Colfax Floods of 1910 and 1948. Of a more regional interest are the Construction of the Boundary Dam for Seattle City Light Company in 1967 and the 12th World Jamboree of the Boy Scouts of America held in Farragut State Park in 1967.
This collection consists of correspondence, photographs, and miscellaneous items related to Save Our Summers. The collection includes paper documents and digital files (borndigital_MS201722).
This collection consists of over 200 architectural drawings by Spokane architect Kenneth Brooks. The bulk of the collection is plans for the Deaconess Hospital Addition in Spokane; also included are plans for Spokane Fire Department buildings, the Stevens County Courthouse remodel, the Community Congregational Church in Veradale, Washington, and the Mount Carmel Hospital addition and remodel in Colville, Washington.
This collection consists of: personal accounts of J.H. Meiners of Medical Lake, Washington, as well as business accounts of the Medical Lake Pharmacy.
Papers of the Washington State Grange, including: Miscellaneous mimeographed announcements, letters; Grange newspapers and magazines; Grange rosters; annual sessions proceedings; three scrapbooks of news clippings from the Grange News.
Correspondence about various systems and WSU buildings, covering 1983-1990. Includes spec books from various expansions and remodels, and utility cost breakdowns for various buildings. Box 1 contains four spec books on the Holland Library expansion (later Terrell), and system reports for things on campus such as ventilation, snow melt system, infrared, greenhouses, and insulation. Box 2 contains administrative files on cost estimates and utility cost breakdowns for various buildings and fuel sources. Box 3 contains an estimate summary on the Holland Library addition.
Undated, signed envelope addressed to John Agg, Esq., in Washington City, complete with wax seal.
This collection contains the records of the Southwestern Washington Research Unit covering the years 1943-1975. Includes correspondence, reports, memos, etc., related to both government and the private sector. Information on crop experiments, technological developments, etc., from agricultural and industrial resources. Series III contains the personal files of D. F. Allmendinger, Perry Crandall (both were Research Unit Superintendents) and Glenn Wolfe, an experiment aide.
Research files from the WSU Research Division from the 1940s-1970. Includes Research study files, Investigative research, specimen preparation documents, Model Experiments, miscellaneous files, and budget files. A preliminary item by item guide exists to boxes 1-45.
This collection consists of short stories and essays written by William Kruegel, and typed by his secretary, Jennette Beasley, during Kruegel's time as Bursar of the College. The stories and essays are on a variety of topics of general interest to Kruegel.
Correspondence, birth and death records from Carroll family Bible; notes on the Carroll family, circa 1869-1937.
This collection contains research materials of Dr. Armand Mauss on student activism in the San Francisco Bay area, Seattle’s Skid Road, and alcohol studies in Washington state. Papers pertaining to student activism in the 1960s and 1970s include articles, dissertations, conference papers and reports concerning black and white student activism and the conservative and liberal student movements. Mauss' "Skid Road" project primarily looked at the efforts of three Seattle, Washington, rescue missions: the Lutheran Compass Center, the Bread of Life Mission, and the Union Gospel Mission. Materials pertaining to this project include journal and newspapers articles, survey and questionnaire data, missions' pamphlets and reports, photographs, and correspondence. Papers related to the WSU Alcohol Studies Program from the 1970s to the early 1980s include correspondence, reports and recommendations, and research files.
This collection consists of papers of Dorys Grover. It includes daybooks she kept as a graduate student in American Studies at Washington State University, 1965-1969, and a few from later dates, along with a small amount of correspondence, and a clipping of one of Grover's columns in the Pendleton Record. The correspondence includes two Christmas cards with photographs of WSU professor Paul Philemon Kies.
Definition: Ephemera are "materials, usually printed documents, created for a specific, limited purpose, and generally designed to be discarded after use." (from A Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology by Richard Pearce-Moses). Pamphlets, admission tickets, performance programs, and trade cards are a few examples of ephemera.
This collection includes ephemeral materials, mainly printed items, on a wide variety of subjects, acquired from the mid-20th century onward from various sources.
(Location note: fruit box labels are in Oversize 1)
(Location note: Oversize 2)
(Location note: Oversize 2)
(Location note: in Oversize 2)
See also the Washington State University Ephemera and Realia Collection, 1905- (SC 010)
(Location note: in Oversize 2)
This letter is addressed from Sarah G. Smith in Kamiah to Mrs. Eells and Mrs. Walker, December 18, 1839. Signed holograph about Mrs. J.S. Griffen. Typed copy included.
A list of books to be presented by Mrs. A.E. Drucker in memory of her father, Captain E.S. Barstow, to Washington State College Library.
Account book of Robinson and Peterson, a freight business based in Spokane County, Washington. Includes records of team hire and miscellaneous business transactions.
The collection consists of commercial portraits of Washington State University College of Veterinary Medicine students.
Records in this collection include meeting minute files with dates indicated within the file. Correspondence, and reports are included and labeled.
The Leo K. Bustad Papers consist of the personal and professional papers of Leo K. Bustad, the former dean of the Washington State University (WSU) College of Veterinary Medicine. It includes correspondence, photographs, slides, research reports and background materials, newsletters, regional veterinary medicine education papers, materials related to The Delta Society and the human/animal bond, speeches, publications, and teaching materials, as well as audiocassettes and videocassettes by Dr. Bustad, about Dr. Bustad, and that cover his personal and professional interests. These interests include companion animals, animal-assisted therapy, veterinary curriculum, ethics and values, leadership, managing adversity, and radiobiology. The collection includes materials that postdate Dr. Bustad’s death as they relate to either him personally or to his work.
Series 1: Research, circa 1950s-1990 - This series contains both research by Dr. Bustad, as well as publications by other authors. It tends to focus on his earlier research related to radiation and includes his 1960 thesis "Physiological Response of Mice to Low Levels of Irradiation".
Subseries 1.1: Research Notes and Publications, circa 1950s-1990
Subseries 1.2: Slides, 1963-1982
Subseries 1.3: Photographs, 1966
Series 2: Professional Papers, 1912-2005 - This series spans the varied interests of Dr. Bustad’s career, including the effects of radiation, veterinary school curriculum for Washington, Idaho, and Oregon, and his work with multiple organizations related to the human-animal bond. Speeches address a variety of subjects, including compassion, ethics and values, and the benefits of the human-animal bond. Publications cover similar topics as well as document Dr. Bustad’s radiobiology work. Many publications are reprints of speeches or presentations that Dr. Bustad gave at professional conferences.
Subseries 2.1: Tri-state Shared Curriculum, 1972-1978
Subseries 2.2: The Delta Society, 1981-2001
Subseries 2.3: People-Pet Partnership, 1912-2000
Subseries 2.4: Human-Animal Bond, 1974-2005
Subseries 2.5: Washington State University, 1949-2004
Subseries 2.6: Speeches, 1961-1995
Subseries 2.7: Publications, 1948-1997
Subseries 2.8: Day Planners, 1974-1988
Subseries 2.9: Ephemera, 1954-1986
Series 3: Correspondence, 1972-2003 - This series observes Dr. Bustad’s arrangement of correspondence by general alphabetical order and specifically by person and includes correspondence with Sophie Engelhard Craighead, Dean Borje Gustafsson, and Sister Pauline Quinn.
Subseries 3.1: General Correspondence, 1974-1977
Subseries 3.2: Correspondence by Person, 1972-2003
Series 4: Personal Papers, 1930s-1997 - This series includes photographs, certificates and honors, newspaper clippings, Christmas letters, curriculum vitae, memorial service notes, paperwork related to Dr. Bustad’s retirement from the United States Army, and other personal materials. This series contains restricted materials.
Series 5: Audiovisual Materials, 1962-1998 - This series contains multiple formats related to Dr. Bustad’s professional and personal interests, including the human-animal bond, animal behavior, animal-assisted therapy, veterinary medicine and research, and ethics and values. Materials are by Dr. Bustad as well as by others.
Subseries 5.1: Reel to Reel, 1962-1969
Subseries 5.2: U-matics, circa 1980s (many undated)
Subseries 5.3: VHS cassettes, 1972-1998 (many undated)
Subseries 5.4: Audiocassettes, 1972-1994 (many undated)
This series contains both research by Dr. Bustad, as well as publications by other authors. It tends to focus on his earlier research related to radiation and includes his 1960 thesis "Physiological Response of Mice to Low Levels of Irradiation".
This series spans the varied interests of Dr. Bustad’s career, including the effects of radiation, veterinary school curriculum for Washington, Idaho, and Oregon, and his work with multiple organizations related to the human-animal bond. Speeches address a variety of subjects, including compassion, ethics and values, and the benefits of the human-animal bond. Publications cover similar topics as well as document Dr. Bustad’s radiobiology work. Many publications are reprints of speeches or presentations that Dr. Bustad gave at professional conferences.
This series observes Dr. Bustad’s arrangement of correspondence by general alphabetical order and specifically by person and includes correspondence with Sophie Engelhard Craighead, Dean Borje Gustafsson, and Sister Pauline Quinn.
This series includes photographs, certificates and honors, newspaper clippings, Christmas letters, curriculum vitae, memorial service notes, paperwork related to Dr. Bustad’s retirement from the United States Army, and other personal materials. This series contains restricted materials.
This series contains multiple formats related to Dr. Bustad’s professional and personal interests, including the human-animal bond, animal behavior, animal-assisted therapy, veterinary medicine and research, and ethics and values. Materials are by Dr. Bustad as well as by others.
Signed holograph which quotes E. Chapman's description of the Navajo Indians while trying to establish if these are Welsh Indians who sailed from Britain, ca. 1170.
Typescript transcription of diary written on the Oregon Trail, 1851. Also route notes by Lynn Irish and map of the route by Robert E. Lee, ca. 1980.
The papers of Mart Albert Howard, 1855-1926, consists of the correspondence, diaries, bills and receipts, legal documents and photographs which Howard, a Webster, Massachusetts, businessman, retained from his experience as a gold miner in the Klondike gold rush of 1897. Approximately two thirds of the collection are photographs taken by Howard or purchased from other Alaskan and Canadian photographers. Most photographs are glass-mounted transparencies.
The COHP operates under a "unit history" format whereby each university department or unit has been asked to participate so that a balanced collective history emerges. Forty-five departments/units are represented in the collection. An important emphasis of COHP in addition to departmental/unit histories has been the 25 Golden Grad interviews, undertaken from 1984 to 1987, during the 50th anniversary alumni celebrations held each spring. By the end of the Centennial Oral History Project in June, 1988, 174 interviews have been processed and transcribed. This is a significant feat, as the Oral History Office has no interviewing staff and relies solely upon volunteers to conduct the interviews. The resulting interviews have been made available to Centennial historians and any others who wish to research or just reminisce.
Each interview in the first series has been transcribed, but due to budget constraints, most of them have not been edited. If in doubt on a name or years, consult Campus Directories or Catalogs in Holland Library. Also, remember that these interviews are informal conversations where errors in grammar sometimes occur. The description outlines basic information--the interviewer, interviewee, number of tapes, interview date, Manuscripts, Archives, and Special Collections (MASC) location, any additional material filed with the originals, and a brief sketch of topics discussed during the interview.
An index to departments and subjects exists in print form at WSU Libraries: Manuscripts, Archives, and Special Collections. In addition to information presented here, the print index also contains a subject index and a university department index.
During digitization of these in 2013, it was realized that a 1970 History of WSU's Physics Program roundtable was included in the Golden Grads cassettes in box 21; its provenance is unknown but it is speculated that it might have come as supporting material to Dr. Band's interview (Box 1).
Development of landscape architecture program at WSU. Washington state's wine grape industry. Horticulture Department's relationship with neighboring states and provinces. Horticulture department at Johnson Hall. Cooperation with USDA. Responsibilities as chairman. Research stations. Changes in the department over the years. Foreign work and cooperation. Extension programs.
Family members who are WSU graduates. Personal background. Student experiences at WSU - work, studies, activities, classes, professors, equipment, and facilities. Campus and social life in the early 1970s. Comments on research and teaching assistants. Campus health care. Religious activities of the early 1970s.
Personal background. Student days at WSC, 1938-51. Professional career at WSU, 1942-74. Personal research at WSU. Shift in research and teaching duties. Relationship between the Division of Industrial Research and the College of Engineering. Administration of, and attitude toward Division of Industrial Research. Early days in Pullman. Materials donated to WSU archives. Personal interests.
Personal background. Student days at WSC, 1936-41. Early years in Pullman. Impressions of WSC. Marriage to Mark F. Adams, Professor of Chemistry. Founding of Montessori School in Pullman, 1969. Montessori theory of education. Activities with faculty wives. Mark F. Adam's consulting work. Personal interests.
Personal background. Work at WSU Foundry, 1943-1950 - facilities, supervisors, work with light alloy metals, and crew. Employment with foundry at the Division of Industrial Research. Extensive discussion on various projects the foundry undertook. Work with Hydraulics Department. Work on developing hop dryer. Closure of foundry. Employment with Wood Products Lab - crew, supervisors, graduate students, facilities, salaries and promotions, and departmental social activities. Extensive discussion on Wood Products Lab's projects. Chairs of Engineering. Physical development of campus.
Personal background. Pine Manor, a male residence hall - social events, house mother, fellow hallmates. Student life and favorite instructors. A typical day.
Personal background. Roy's career, 1924-72 (manager of Farm Services, 1944-72). Locations of various buildings on campus. Bailey's work with Clydesdale horses and blacksmithing. Locations of plots of farm land near campus. Colleagues over the years.
Recollections of Physics department since 1949. Band's chairmanship, 1958-67. WSU administration. Importance of teaching.
Personal background. Undergraduate and graduate career at the University of Illinois. Travelling scholarship to Europe, 1958 - worked at a United Nations Association work camp in Austria building houses for refugees. WSU career, 1963 to present. Architecture department - size, faculty, courses, and facilities. Cooperative program. Outstanding students. 1970 Fulbright and sabbatical to Afghanistan and its positive affect on his career.
Biography of Bearse. Professional career at WSU, 1929-72. Poultry industry problems and research programs. Colleagues and their work. Communication of research findings to industry groups, producers, and other researchers. Personal service to scientific community and local area.
Student days at WSC -fraternities, teachers, "Yell King" activities, student attitudes, and classmates.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1961-present. History department - students, courses, faculty, and facilities. Focus of departmental change, 1961-85. Praise for WSU's graduate program. Social atmosphere of Pullman. Personal hobbies. Private and professional associations and activities. Athletics at WSU. Student protests of the late 1960s and early 1970s. Administrative response to students. Violence on WSU campus. Mascots and student identity. Salary inequities. Performance of three WSU administrations.
Professional career at WSU, 1961-present. History department - courses, work load, research, faculty, character of department, and students. Experience as Faculty Athletic Representative to the Pacific 10 Athletic Conference. Importance of athletics in generating alumni financial support and identification. Why Bennett came to WSU and reasons for staying.
Student days at WSU - student politics, student attitudes, and experiences as Associated Students of Washington State University (ASWSU) President.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1949-85. Highlights in Agronomy program. Agronomy Department - faculty, cooperation with other departments, extension, and chairs. Arrival at WSU and living in Pullman. Relationships with state and regional associations and USDA. Professional societies. Tenure as department chairman. Philosophy on departmental administration. Mission of a land-grant university. Professionalism. Program for observing teaching. Land and facilities supervision. Teaching loads. Tribute to Ag. teachers. Turbulent times of the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Personal background. World War II. WSU career, 1955-1978. Growth of Engineering Department and faculty. Development of honors and PhD programs. Academic cooperation with other Pacific Northwest electrical engineering departments. Colleagues. Outstanding students. WSU administration under President C. C. French.
Early years of International Programs Office. Establishment of study abroad and exchange programs. Directors of International Programs. Professional career at WSU, 1952-present. Changes in personnel and focus of International Programs. Administration's support. Creation of International Programs Development Office. Bhatia's guidelines for establishing study abroad programs. Rewarding aspects of experience with International Programs. Creation of Language Center.
Professional career at WSU, 1949-1980. Early years of the Political Science and History department - course load, extension programs, research interests, and split of the department. Publications and dissertation background. Colleagues. Impressions of chairmen and WSU presidents. Effects of McCarthy era on department and campus. Campus unrest of the 1960s and 1970s. Effect of Chicano Studies on Mexican history. Changes from Resident Instructional Staff to Senate. Financial conditions and status of department and faculty. Pullman. History department (academic quality, publication standards, pay, Latin American historians, and grad students). Retirement. Current Latin American events. Lack of objectivity in history.
Student days at WSU - teachers, fraternities and sororities, social activities, library, classmates, fashions, and campus grounds.
Personal background. How Boyington came to WSU. Career, 1933-1973. WWII, and graduate school at the University of Michigan. Colleagues. Agony Hall (old music building). Music facilities. Performing days and undergraduate years at Julliard. Outstanding students. "Tall Indians" organization at WSU.
Personal background. WSU career, 1965-1983. Establishment of the Department of Education, 1964. Evolution of Home Economics and Agricultural Education. Basic Education Act. Contributions of WSU's Education department to the state. Distribution of Education graduates from Washington universities and colleges. New thrusts: industrial technology, and expanding international market in education. Impressions of being a Dean.
Personal background. Professional WSU career, 1946-1956. Nutrition classes, graduate students, and curriculum in related sciences. Impressions of the Palouse country. College of Home Economics - faculty, research facilities, and research. Social activities. Professional salaries. Travel. Relationship with Home Economics Extension staff.
Reminiscences of Bucklin's father, Robert Eden Bucklin, a WSC alumnus. Impressions of WSU Presidents.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1928-56. Phi Beta Kappa honor society. Extensive discussion on President and Mrs. Compton and the Compton administration. Beaver Creek Camp Association. Responsibilities of department chairman. Early days of the English department.
Personal background. Campus and math department as an undergraduate, 1943-1949. Campus changes over the years. Influential professors. Graduate experience at Princeton. Professional career at WSU, 1952-present. Math department in the 1950s - colleagues, curriculum, etc. Students over the years. Pure and applied mathematics. Changes in teaching math, and new directions. Professional organizations and research interests. Comparisons of various administrations/administrators. Affiliated departments - astronomy and computer science. Doctor of Arts program.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1948-73. Early years of Wildlife Biology. Personal research (elephants). Wildlife Biology program - graduate students, faculty, and zoology chairs. WSU's administration in relation to Wildlife Biology. Principles of Wildlife Conservation class.
Student career at WSU, 1921-25. Work at Bell Labs, 1925-68, including electron diffraction, electron microscopes, Calbick-Davisson formula, early television, et cetera. Senior research physicist with WSU after retirement from Bell Labs, 1973-present.
Personal background. Establishment of alumni clubs in and out of Washington. Alumni meetings and gathering support. Changes in responsibilities of Alumni Association (AA). AA's relationship with the President and Board of Regents. Principles in early AA and Cougar Club. Alumni leadership scholarship program and alumni achievement award. Student involvement in AA. Caraher's feelings of establishing an alumni house on campus. Golden Grad reunions. New directions Caraher believes AA should take.
Student days at WSC - professors, Greek versus dormitory living, clothing fashions, social activities, and classmates.
WSU career, 1948-1974. Supporter of women's unlimited dribble basketball. Eligibility of women in athletics. Restrictions in athletics. Involvement with volleyball. Officiating. Physical Education department - colleagues, courses, and students. Personal background. Concerns for teaching competency - teacher education standards in Physical Education program. Committee work on maintaining attendance requirement in P.E. courses. Contributions to P.E. department. Committee service. Sexism and maintaining University standards.
Personal background. WSU career, 1949-1973. Philosophy of education. Computers. Attraction of, and life at WSU. Fine Arts and Education departments. Sabbatical in Mexico. Artistic goals for children. The "Art Shop." Pullman schools. Workshops and extension classes. WSU's changing curriculum. Inspirational teachers. WWII years.
Personal background. Animal Science student, 1958-63. Career with WSU Animal Science Department, 1967-present. History and uses of the Old Beef Barn. Colleagues. Discussion of manure lagoons, and silage and hay making. Future of the beef industry. Cross breeding of cattle.
Personal background. Masters of Adult and Continuing Education Program (MACE) - adult learning course, program planning course. Transition from Masters of Extension Program to MACE program. Development of a regional association of adult educators (Northwest Adult Education Association). Future of adult education. Reflections on career at WSU as extension administrator, professor in the MACE, and as international developer.
Personal background. WSU career, 1942-1976. Early years of the Education department. Professors. College Hall. History of teacher certification. Job description and evolution of duties up to Administrative Assistant. Recollections of and relations with students. Establishment of the department and Cleveland Hall. Colleagues. Relations with the rest of the university. Support services for the faculty. Problems with the program. State Office of Education. Dean/chairman split of authority. Student teaching program. Teacher quality.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1954-72. Junior colleges and their separation from public schools. Early years of the Education department. Influence of Education department on Washington's community colleges. Current issues in education, especially in community colleges. Comparison of junior colleges and universities. Crawford's retirement.
Personal background. Student experiences - Sigma Nu fraternity, social events, and athletics. Boxing experiences - Golden Gloves. Job at Potlatch, 1929. WSU professional career as boxing coach, 1931-1967. Amateur and college leagues, notable boxers, and memorable bouts. Navy Pre-flight program during WWII. Demise of boxing program. Intramural and instructional boxing. Colleagues and anecdotes. Family. WSU administrations. Student athletes. Retirement activities.
Circumstances bringing Deutsch to WSC. Student years at WSC, 1922-1926. Anecdote on diptheria scare. Graduate student experiences, 1928-1929. Experiences as an instructor, 1929. Relationship between Bacteriology professor, Dr. Victor Burke and History professor, Dr. Deutsch. Marriage to Dr. Herman Deutsch, 1930. Bacteriology department - facilities, students, faculty. Presentation of Sigma Alpha Omicron pin to H.M. Nakata. Social life and codes on WSC campus.
Dils' student days at WSC in the (?)1930s - organizations (Theta Nu Epsilon, TNE), social rules, teachers, clothing fashions, classmates, and student politics. Noel: Reminiscences of Buck Bailey and WSU baseball. Norman: Perceptions of college athletics today.
Personal background. WSU career, 1953-1983. Forestry department - facilities, faculty, courses, memorable students, and the Forestry Nursery. Types of trees grown on campus and their uses. Clark-McNary Act. Accreditation. Women in the Forestry Program. Dingle's experiences with the Indonesian Agricultural Education Project, 1981. Evaluation of WSU's Forestry Program.
Personal background. Hand milking cows. Education in the early decades of the 20th century. Student life and layout of campus in the early 1920s. Importance of agriculture. Professional recognition and Dykstra's honors. Dairies in the Soviet Union. Artificial insemination and Bang's disease.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1940-73. Zoology department - research, equipment, facilities, curriculum, and faculty. Eastlick's chairmanship, 1947-1965. Mentions various faculty and deans he worked with. Five year sabbatical. Students and classes, 1940-70s. Recognition of Eastlick's research. Eastlick's philosophy of academics.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1946-1967. Responsibilities of a land-grant university. Extension programs. World-wide recognition of Extension programs. Professional conferences. Changes in Extension Services to fit changing demands of the public. Colleagues Eckblad worked with in Home Economics and Agriculture.
Recollections of Dairy Science Department. Ehlers' Biography. Professional career at WSU, 1953-82. Dairy Science merger with Poultry and Animal Science. Dairy herds at WSU and the dairy industry. The continuing role of a land-grant university.
Personal background. Women's Recreation Association. WSU - campus, enrollment, and strengths. Davis Residence Hall. Athletics - facilities, games, clubs, and Crimson W. Restrictions on women on campus. Student activities and alcohol use. Influx of WWII veterans - housing, social changes, and competition. WSU professional career, 1960-1983. Physical Education Department - faculty and faculty committees. Merger of Men's and Women's departments - good and bad points.
Personal background and work as an agronomist with the Army. Agronomy graduate, B.S. and M.S., 1946-51. Agronomist with Cooperative Extension in Washington, Whitman County. Problems the Extension faced (stripe rust). Cooperation with WSU Agronomy department. Work with peas and lentils. Erosion research and soil conservation. Future for the soil in Whitman County. Training of extension agents. Role of agents in the future.
Education at WSC versus education at UW. Student days at WSC - teachers, social rules, fraternities and sororities, veterans as students, clothing fashions, student politics, classmates, and social activities.
Personal biography. French's philosophy of administration. Administrative duties prior to WSU. Describes first visit to Pullman in 1952. Professional career at WSU, 1952-66. His role in creating the Council of Presidents of Washington Colleges and Universities and in creating Evergreen State College. French's philosophy and goals for administering WSU. Growth of college programs and of the campus. Restoration of WSU to the Pacific-10 Athletic Conference.
Personal background. WSU career, 1950-1987. History department - classes and faculty. Personal research and Publications. Professional activities. Split between History and Political Science departments. Effects of McCarthy era on WSU.
Personal background-- Pullman and Boise. Extensive selections on her father, President E.A. Bryan. Friends on Maple Street. Flood of 1910, Pullman. Prohibition. Deans of Women, White and Annie Fertig. President Bryan's political philosophy. Senator McCroskey. Dedication of Bryan Hall. President Bryan's death. The President's House. Contribution of WSU to the nation. World War II years. Marriages and career work. Husband, Senator George Gannon.
Student days at WSU during the late 1930s - classes, buildings, social life, professors, and classmates. Theta Nu Epsilon (TNE), a secret campus political organization in the Greek system. Gibson's business activities as a student. Student body elections. Student Strike, 1936. Football. Graduate school at Stanford.
Student days at WSC in the 1930s - fraternities, student politics (Theta Nu Epsilon, a secret greek political organization), classmates, and teachers. Extensive discussion on the Student Strike of 1936. Change in social attitudes among students. President of student body.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1962-1982. Women's Physical Education Department - faculty, curriculum, coed activities, facilities, enrollment, and graduate programs. Teaching versus coaching. Pre-Physical Therapy Program. Title 9 and its impact on WSU's Physical Education program.
Changes in the restaurant industry since 1950. Changes in functions of corporate lodging and food service organizations since 1950. Trends influencing hospitality industry's future. Changes in hospitality education - courses. Personal background. WSU career, 1947-1951, and as Westin Distinguished Professor at WSU, 1983-1985. WSU's Hotel and Restaurant Administration Program - students, field trips, courses, and faculty. Changes at WSU since the 1940s - buildings, as an agricultural institution, faculty, administration, professionalism. Describes various major hotel and restaurant companies and their corporate officials. Advice to students entering the hospitality industry.
Impressions of WSU and Pullman. Professional WSU career, 1947-1948 in the English department - students, classes, and faculty. College social life. Impressions of being a faculty wife. Housing and living conditions in Pullman. Relationship between WSU and Pullman. Women faculty members. Veterans on campus.
Professional career at WSU, 1958-73. Industrial Engineering Research Division (later called Engineering Research Division) at WSU. Greenfield's research (electric acoustics). Development of Engineering college. Personal biography. Greenfield's particular field of interest. Retirement activities. Recollections of Pullman and WSU. Louise Greenfield's work with acoustic sonograms.
Student days at WSC - campus housing, teachers, social activities, G.I.'s as students, and classmates. Hiring WSU Architecture graduates. Personal background.
Personal background. Student life at WSU - classes, teaching methods, typical day, entertainment, ROTC, dormitories, cafeterias, and Orton Hall. Professional career in transit business. Training needed in a service industry. Comments on April, 1987 Federal Transportation Act's impact on Washington State.
Personal background. WSU career, 1946-1983. Agricultural Economics department - courses, students, teaching methods, integrated courses, and chairmen. Chairmanship and Acting Chairmanships. Reinstatement and Scholarship Committee chores, 1948-1968. Harrington's goals and ambitions at WSU. Personal research. Participation in extension programs. Differences in operation of research programs and the extension programs. Role of Ag. Econ. in the development of the Columbia Basin. Agriculture and government. Role of a land-grant university, its president, and its students.
Football at WSC - 1931 Rose Bowl game, Coach Hollingberry, train trips, league coaches, teams played, teammates, game strategies, and memorable games. Student days at WSC, late 1920s, early 1930s - teachers, fraternities, and meeting Florence, his future wife. Professional football career. Coaching career. Football honors. Other professional football players. Football theory.
Personal background. Impressions of Student Health Center (SHC) upon arrival in 1958. Organization of SHC. Medical Technician Department at SHC. Reminiscences of WSU students. Current concerns of patients - sex, drugs, alcohol. Work with handicapped students. Family. Impressions of Pullman. Experiences as a sorority advisor. Advice to medical technician students. Rewards of career at WSU.
Personal background. WSU career, 1937-72. Early work load. News Bureau. Student participation in newswriting. WSU administrations from Bryan to Terrell. Growth during the Compton years. Arson story. Helen Compton. Student unrest in the late 1960s, early 1970s. Butch, the live cougar mascot. Growth and changes of News Bureau. Relationship with the Athletic Department from 1937 to 1983. Relationship with Student Publications, as advisor.
Personal background. Education and career before coming to WSU. Career at WSU, 1969-83. Dean, 1975. Reasons for coming to WSU. Facilities and programs within the College of Home Economics. Composition of student body and faculty. Relationship between Home Ec. and Agriculture. Professional societies. Philosophy of Home Ec. over the years and development of various programs at WSU. Internships and field experience. 75th anniversary of the Home Ec. program at WSU. The program's influence upon the state. Merger of the Colleges of Home Ec. and Agriculture.
Personal background. Family members who are WSU graduates. Student experiences at WSU - studies, fraternities, ROTC, married life on campus, financing education, equipment, student-teacher relationships, social activities, and classes. Agricultural consulting work overseas. Comments on foreign countries, foreign trade and embargoes. Relationship with the Athletic department. Physical development of the campus. Impact of WSU on business in Pullman.
Personal background. Student experiences at WSU - financing education, expenses, and ROTC. Influence of WSU throughout life. Reflections on WSU and its people. Comments on fraternity houses, especially Alpha Gamma Rho. Family members who are WSU graduates. Farming of seed-plants in the Palouse. Comments about national politics and their affects on the Palouse.
Personal background. Student experiences at WSU - studies, athletics, financing his education, faculty, work, scholarships, and tutors. Business relationship with WSU. Professional baseball career. Relationship and affect of WSU on Hinrichs' rape seed business.
Personal biography. Early life in Spokane. Student days at WSC, 1905-09. Summer work with Milwaukee and Great Northern Railroads. Taught physics and math at Pullman High School, 1909-11. Professional career at WSC and WSU, 1911-57 (teacher and business administrator). Military influence on campus during WWI and WWII. Hix's religious activities. Recalls various Regents. Anecdotes. Colleagues over the years, especially William Kruegal, E.O. Holland, and Wilson Compton.
Personal background. Impressions of Pullman and WSU. Dairy Science Department - students and faculty. Student experiences at WSU and the judging team. Work as Junior Dairy Husbandman for WSU. Professional career at Western Washington Research and Extension Center (WWREC) in Puyallup (formerly Western Washington Experiment Station, WWES), 1951-1971. Early history of WWES. Research at WWES and WWREC.
Personal background. WSU career, 1968-present. History department - faculty, classes, enrollment patterns, curriculum, World Civilization course, teaching vs. research, administration's perception of History department, undergraduate and graduate students, effect of Public History program on the department, teaching assistant stipends, student non-politicism, foreign student recruitment, and the budget's effect on morale. Personal research. Chairmanship and goals. Campus unrest of the 1970s.
Professional career at WSU, 1956-75. Changing philosophy of the Home Economics College. Research emphasis and results. Cooperation with Agriculture, Poultry Science, and Dairy Science departments, as well as cooperative extension and the USDA. Development of the Food Science department. Teaching innovations in Food Science. Loss of community feeling among Home Economics staff with the merger with the College of Agriculture.
Personal background. Dry farming and Grand Coulee Dam. Superintendent of WSU's Lind project, 1937-47. Much discussion on research - nitrogen fertilizer. Discussion of the McGregor Corporation and his work there. Future of farming and the soil. Jacquot's wheat variety, "Jacmar."
Family background. Foreign Language degree (WSU, 1939-1943). Parent's floral shop and lunch counter in Pullman (Neill's). Classes and entrance tests at WSU. Growth of WSU. Sigma Kappa social events. World War Two. Extensive discussion on Library work. Library career at WSU, 1967-present. Holland Library, 1950 to present.
Personal background and education. WSU professional career, 1923-1924, and 1927-1929. Women's Physical Education Department - facilities and courses. Faculty salaries, "nepotism" clause, and social life and rules. President E.O. Holland. Anecdote on scheduled Will Rogers/Claudius O. Johnson debate. Student Strike of 1936. Husband's (C.O. Johnson) education and career, chair of the Political Science and History Department. Claudius' Fulbright assignments and travels. Health care in Pullman. Mary's colleagues. Edward R. Murrow. Women's clubs, especially the Fortnightly Club.
Personal background. Speech and Education curriculum. Typical day at WSU. Social life and student life. Duncan Dunn.
Biography of Just. Professional career at WSU, 1938-72. Retirement and community service. Memorable students of Just.
Personal background. Job description. History of campus buildings, golf course, and parking. The future - "The Campus Scheme."
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1950-62, 1968-present. Changes within Interior Design/Home Economics Department. Interior Design Department - Foundation of Interior Design Research accreditation, professional organizations, curriculum. Merger of Colleges of Agriculture and Home Economics in 1980. Research/teaching balance. Klopfer's involvement on campus and on committees. Professional research.
Personal background. Student days at WSC - tuition, campus grounds, extra-curricular activities, athletics, curriculum, enrollment, fraternities, buildings, professors, social activities, and fashions. Pullman community. Alma Klossner's personal background. WSU presidents. Career with the U.S. Postal Service in Pullman and on WSU campus. Retirement.
Personal background. Professional WSU career, 1961-1979. Economics department - undergraduate and graduate students. WSU committees Kottke served on. Student unrest of the 1960s and its impact on WSU. Research. Career with the Federal Trade Commission in Washington, D. C. WSU Library system.
TELEPHONE INTERVIEW. WSU career, retired in 1969. Masters of Extension program. Colleagues. Students, courses, agricultural extension. Cooperation with other departments - Sociology, Home Economics, Anthropology, etc.Ag. Extension as a minor - resistance from other departments and the graduate school.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1953-1970. Location of library. Head of Technical Services. Organization of Holland Library. Head of basic college library. How a library operates - collection development, faculty relations, divisional setup. Impressions of library administration. Impressions of faculty status for librarians. Value of M.L.S. degree for librarianship as a profession. Role in writing Washington State College Library Handbooks, in instruction activities, and in library automation. Changes at WSU Libraries. Accomplishments and disappointments.
Campus life - rules, boarding homes, social life (entertainment and dating), classmates, and religious life. Family background. Husband, Ed Landerholm. Clothing and hair fashions. Household chores. Family members (past, present, and future) who attended WSU.
#1) Family background. Sociology Department. Published works. WSU career, 1935-. Previous teaching and job experiences. #2) Soc. Dep't. - colleagues, students, social work program, development of the Rural Soc. Dep't. Government project works. Public attitudes toward soc. Family life in Pullman. Great Depression and westward migration to Washington. Research. #3) Soc. Dep't. - colleagues, course load. Holland administration. Landis' deanship - Graduate School. Compton admn. Resignation from deanship. Compton's real estate developments. #4) Real estate, cont'd. Colleagues. Changed atmosphere on campus during & after WWII. Student Strike, 1936. Veterans as students. Gov't programs during Depression. Compton's demise. Pullman community. Landis' real estate development. #5) Landis' real estate, cont'd. Graduate exams. Graduate faculty. His deanship. Graduate language requirement. Committee system within departments. Work with Farm Home Administration (FHA) during WWII. #6) FHA, cont'd. Effects of WWII on campus. Landis' real estate development. Landis' college employment. WSU career. #7 & #8) Landis' sabbaticals around the world, esp. Africa. #9) Sabbaticals. His achievement drive. Much on family and background. #10) Family & background. #11) Family & background. Hunting trips. His diet. Landis' children. #12) His children and grandchildren. #13) Children, grandchildren. Relationship between Pullman and WSU. Much on his real estate developments & role in building Pullman. Corrections & insertions by Landis. His declining health. #14) Landis' declining health and attitude toward it. Reflects on life's rewards and his failures. Reflects on his wife, Bess. Family members and their health. Graduate School. Sociology Department - facilities. Retirement. #15) Landis' teaching career. Reflects on Bess, his marriage, and fatherhood.
Personal background. Impressions of WSU, 1941-79. Courses Law taught. Origins and work of Washington State Crop Improvement Association. Facilities. Observations of Law on bridging gap between academics and agricultural industries. Various faculty and ag. extension staff. Role of a land-grant university. Seed and turf research at WSU. Work as Vice Chairman of Agronomy and Soils. Collegiate Crops Judging, participants and coaches. Law's outlook on foreign service. Law's views on consulting as a professional agronomist. Law's reflections on his experiences.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1948-81. Ag. Chemistry department (later named Institute of Biological Chemistry) - faculty, chairmen, and facilities. Shift in departmental research emphasis from nutrition and foods to plant biochemistry. Formation of Biological chemistry. Members at outlying stations. Retirement work with Department of Agronomy and Soils. Hobbies and recreation. Retrospection of life at WSU and Pullman.
Personal background. Football at WSU. Professional football with the San Diego Chargers. Coaching at different levels-high school, college, professional. Teammates and outstanding players at WSU and San Diego. Sid Gillman, Charger coach. [Lincoln was a WSU student from 1957 to 1961. He returned to WSU as an assistant football coach, 1971 to 1973. Lincoln then transferred to the Alumni Center in 1973, and currently is the Director - though not discussed in the interview].
Personal background. Sociology Anthropology Department - faculty, locations, tensions, and unity. Anthropology boom of the 1960s. Faculty government and problems with French and Terrell administrations. Salaries and economics of WSU. Future needs of the program and the university.
Personal background - born and raised in China, and experiences in a tuberculosis sanitarium. Immigration problems. WSU career, 1958-1969. Electrical Engineering department and faculty. Locations of EE, math, and architecture departments, and the development of laboratories. Administrative personnel. Graduate students and secretaries. Retirement.
Recollections of Vocational Agriculture, 1920-80. Loreen's biography. Development of young farmer education. Origins and development of FFA. Dedicated Washington Vo-Ag teachers. Locations of the Vocational Agriculture department on the WSU campus. FFA annual convention. Loreen's philosophy of Vocational Agriculture extension training.
Personal and family background. 1932 Los Angeles Olympics and Hollywood. The Depression. Social life on campus. Campus housing. Courses and faculty. Emphasis on proper etiquette. WSU YWCA. Extension Service and 4-H. Manring's children's education and careers.
Personal background. Student days at WSC - changed atmosphere on campus following WWII, dormitory living, and student politics. Development of Wilson Compton Union Building.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1969-present. Sociology department - students, graduate courses, grants, facilities, research, department of Rural Sociology, and faculty. Attitude toward administration and campus service. Professional activities. Teaching versus research. Theory of teaching. Personal research. Student unrest of the 1960s. Programs - Urban Research Center, Alcohol Studies, and Religious Studies.
Biography of McCloskey. Professional career at WSU, 1947-74. Philosophy of land-grant colleges. Student strike, circa 1970. Development of the Department of Education since 1947. WSU's role in state education. Friendship with Carl Sandburg and McCloskey's poetry. Issues facing educators today.
McDonough's early life with sister Caroline Cooper, head of Duplicating and Mailing. Student career at WSC and WSU, 1935-82. Professional associations. Advantages and disadvantages of being a registered dietician. Changes on campus over the years. Retirement activities. Recollections of life as a child in eastern Oregon mining communities.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1946-76. Courses taught by McNeil. Zoology department - research, faculty, chairs, facilities, G.I. students. WSU administration - quarter system, tenure, curriculum committee. Entomology's separation from Zoology.
Personal background. Undergraduate years, 1949-1951. Professional career at WSU, 1967-present. Stimson Hall and YMCA. Experiences in ROTC. Experiences as a Japanese-American during WWII. Development of Asian-American program at WSU and Affirmative Action. Graduate years at WSU. Physical changes on campus over the years. Student life. Influential professors. Teaching in Spokane - first Asian-American to teach there.
Personal background. Student experiences and memorable faculty at WSU, 1934-1937. WSU professional career, 1942-1977. Zoology department - courses, facilities, and research. Formation of the Entomology department. General reminiscences.
Personal background. Journalism career. Professional career at WSU, 1947-85. Initial impressions of Pullman. Experience as Editor, Office of Publications. Experience as member of Agriculture Advisory Board. Working under C. Clement French. Importance of intercollegiate athletics to WSU's image. Change from college to university. Washington governors. President Compton's attitude toward salary increases. Experiences as presidential assistant to Glenn Terrell. Student unrest of the late 1960s and early 1970s. Change in student attitudes. Media reporting of student unrest.
Professional career at WSU, 1948-1979. Relationship between Political Science and History departments. The History department from 1955 to the '60s. Balance between teaching and research. Impressions of WSU students. Reminiscences of colleagues. Opinions of WSU presidents Muse worked under.
Personal biography. Served as first chairman of the History department, 1956-79. Service on various university committees. Muse's opinions of presidents he worked under. Muse's colleagues.
Student days at WSC - Student Strike of 1936, social rules, classmates, teachers, housemothers, dress codes, job, and sororities. Home Economics department.
Personal background. Neill Hall. Neill family in Pullman. Entrance requirements at WSC in 1934. College living expenses. Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Memorable classes and professors. Student strike, 1936. Business in Pullman.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU's Irrigated Agricultural Research and Extension Center (IAREC) in Prosser, WA, 1937-71. Agronomist for USDA Bureau of Plant Industry, Prosser, 1942-57. Extensive account of research activities, equipment, and facilities at IAREC. Relationship between Prosser station and the Agronomy department and faculty. Description of research farms. Nelson's feelings about his experiences and his views on research and farming.
Wife of WSU Economics Professor Emeritus, James C. Nelson. Impressions of WSC. Bob Jeffrey's school bus route. Family recreation on campus. Clubs. Education classes. Experiences teaching Social Studies and Language Arts, 1962-64, at Lincoln Middle School, and History, 1966-74, at Pullman High School. Model United Nations Assembly program and High School Bowl. Experiences as a faculty wife. Faculty Wives Association. Campus issues. Travels.
Extensive personal background. Professional WSU career, 1947-1974. Reasons for coming to WSU. Development of Transportation Economics courses. Establishment of PhD program in Economics, 1959-1960. Obtaining library resources. Development of Public Utility Economics courses. Economics department - students, faculty, graduate students, and courses. Personal research, deregulation, and publications. Federal government's role in transportation.
Personal background. Government Nursery School Project. Montevista schools until 1937. World War II. WSU career, 1956-1972. WSU and women students. Associated Women Students. Residence Halls. Rules and Regulations. Duties and involvements of the Dean of Women. Sexual Information Resource Center (SIRC). Student unrest of the late 1960s, early 1970s.Changes over the years regarding women's opportunities. Professional organizations.
Personal background. Physical Education curriculum. Student Health. Intercollegiate volleyball (1968-71) and basketball (1968-70). Streit-Perham residence hall. Influence of WSU on Oden's life.
Personal background. Professional WSU career, 1922-1961. Electrical Engineering department - faculty, facilities, courses, equipment, and students. Depression years at WSC. Professional and community service - Academic Standards Committee, Boy Scouts, etc. WWII years at WSC. Retirement.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1960-1981. Mathematics department - teaching loads, hiring faculty, students, graduate students, class size, facilities, classes, departmental library, and grants. Perceptions of WSU and its administrations. Shift to a research-oriented university. Professional travelling experiences. Chairmanship.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1947-75. Changes at WSU Fire Department during Pence's career. Recounts student unrest in late 1960s, early 1970s. Social activities at the Fire Department. Fire alarm systems on campus. Retirement activities.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1958-1985. Chair, 1959-80. Changes within Clothing and Textiles department - students, emphasis on retailing, field trips, faculty, curriculum. Museum work. Off-campus graduate programs. Committee involvement. Changes within departmental structure and those involved. Home Economic's relationship with administration. Professional organizations. Perry's research and travel.
Boxing at WSC in the 1930s - training, coach (Ike Deeter), teammates, and memorable fights and meets.
Personal background. Architecture employment prior to WSU. Professional WSU career, 1958-1983. Architecture department - faculty, research, and degree program. Sabbaticals. Chairmanship. Development of Construction Management Program. Professional organizations. Retirement.
Personal background. Student days at WSC during the 1930s - dormitories, tuition, teachers, buildings, enrollment, classes and class size, social activities, distinguished visitors, and traditions. Work with the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) during the Depression. Work as custodian at Wilson Compton Union Building. Organizations. Retirement.
Personal background. Growing up in Pullman. Campus and summer school at WSC in 1933. Career at WSC as cook and supervisor, 1955-1980.
Personal background. Student days at WSU - professors, work with grounds keeper, boxing, academic work, roommates, athletics, and coaches. Marriage. Experience attending Castle Heights Military Academy. Volunteer work. Employment with Kiefer-McNeill Company. Recounts his participation in 1956 Olympics. Amateur boxing career. Return to WSU for Hall of Fame presentation and celebrations. Wife, Margaret, and their marriage. Extensive discussion of professional boxing career. Philosophy on work.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1948-75. Research and colleagues at WSU. Development of Experimental Design course. Weed and herbicides program. Organized communication with farmers. Regional weed researchers. Career as Assistant Director of Agriculture Experiment Station, 1956-75. Creation of commodity commissions and their benefits. The role & requirements of an Ag. Research Director. Regional research programs and the USDA. Relationship with State Dept. of Ag. and other agencies. Foreign service and WSU international development programs. Tribute to extension services. Outlook from 38 years at WSU. Family and social recollections.
Student days at WSC during the 1930s - housing and teachers. WSU career years, 1947-1952. Story about WSU presidency being offered to Edward R. Murrow. Wilson Compton administration - moving WSU to Spokane, Compton's demise. Development of Wilson Compton Union Building.
Personal background. Director of WSU Libraries, 1976-1984. Condition of WSU Libraries in 1976. Her administration and management style. Physical changes of the libraries. Budget crisis and WSU administration. Automation of the libraries. Role of departmental libraries. Schnaitter's reasons for stepping down because of University pressure. Current position as Coordinator of Library Development. Accomplishments and disappointments as Director.
Personal background. Student at WSU, 1920-1924 (BA Agriculture), 1932-1935 (PhD Horticulture). Professional career at WSU, retired 1969. Western Washington Agricultural Research and Extension Center, Puyallup. Research - berry breeding, preservation of fruits and vegetables by freezing, and berry harvesting. Future of berry production in Washington. Cooperation with Washington Horticultural Association.
Personal background. First impressions of WSC. Student days at WSC - professors and classmates. Professional career as an architect. Graduate school at M.I.T. Professional career at WSU, 1960-. Chair, 1966-1976. Teaching methods. Definition of architecture. Purpose of the university.
Personal background. World War II experiences. WSU career, 1947-1983. Beaver Creek Camp development. Sabbaticals and research. Publications. Plant Pathology Department - colleagues. Experiences becoming chair and running the department. College of Agriculture administration. Grants and working with undergraduate and graduate students. Financial aid and teaching assistantships. Shaw's family. Department locations. WSU overseas projects. Recounts heart attack. Experiences as advisor of Delta Tau Delta fraternity. Shaw's contributions to his field and to WSU. Travels. Work in New Zealand and India. Professional conferences. Much on his participation in WSU's Pakistan and Jordan projects. Retirement.
Personal background. Student days at WSC - impressions, work with Dr. Helen G. Smith, fees, classes, social activities, intramurals, campus grounds, and buildings. Student Strike, 1936. Professional training and career in physical therapy.
Student days at WSC - boxing coach (Fred "Doc" Bohler), ROTC, Lake DePuddle, fraternities (ATO), professors, classmates, buildings, traditions, campus grounds, organizations, and clothing fashions. Personal background.
Personal background. WSU career, 1946-1976. Library situation upon arrival. Holland Library. Efforts and opposition to centralization of departmental libraries. Smith's directorship of the libraries. Library training. Collection development and computerization of library.
Biography of Smith. Professional career at WSU, 1925-61. Chair, Department of Physical Education for Women. Smith Gym dedication and evolution of building plans. Department courses, activities, and faculty. Professional associations.
Personal background. Family members who are WSU graduates. Student days at WSC - fees and finances, jobs, sororities, courses, student attitudes, social activities, traditions, and graduation. Snow's husband, a 1933 WSC graduate. Health care facilities. Effect of the Depression on students. Relationship between WSU and Pullman.
Personal background. WSU career, 1981-present. Undergraduate years at WSU in the 1960s. Women in anthropology. Changes in student attitudes. The Anthropology department's attitude. Colleagues. Anthropology's relationship with Administration. International Development Program. Relationship with students. Faculty salaries and morale. Reputation of WSU's Anthropology department. Changes (and lack of) in Pullman. Stone's goals for the Department.
Personal biography. Work on Indian reservations. Professional career at WSU, 1956-76 as County Extension Agent in Indian Affairs under WSC; conference and short courses coordinator for College of Agriculture; and Assistant Director of Resident Instruction for College of Agriculture. Evaluation of short courses. Advising students. The future of the College of Agriculture. Retirement activities.
FIRST MINUTES OF TAPE INAUDIBLE - STATIC. WSU career, 1962-present. Courses taught. Personal research. Publications. Professional activities. American Studies Program. Chairmanship and goals. History department - declining enrollment, early impressions, faculty, financial crisis, and undergraduate, graduate, and foreign students. Teaching versus research dilemma.
Personal background. Academic and professional career at WSU, 1942-58. Research and extension work in Tacoma, King County, and Yakima. Extensive discussion on work and life in West Pakistan, 1954-56 (a WSU international development program). Colleagues at WSU. Comments on WSU's support and enthusiasm shown towards her work.
Personal background. Professional career at WSU, 1930-1964. Reasons for coming to WSC. Administrative policies of four WSU Presidents. Post-WWII development - enrollment and physical expansion of the campus. Experiences as chairman of Humanities and Dean of College of Arts and Sciences. Retirement. Buildings on WSU campus.
Personal background. Impressions of WSU. Experiences at WSU - selling milk to dairy on campus, social life - 1945-1948, students, private dairy in Troy Hall, photographic work on campus, dances, student attitudes, 4-H, and FFA. Effects of WWII on campus and farm life. Relationship and affect of WSU on local business. Attitude toward education. Religious activities of late 1940s. Family members who are WSU graduates. Impressions of WSU's future.
Personal background. Family members who are WSU graduates. Impressions of WSU. Impact of VWVII veterans on WSU campus. Student experiences at WSU - classes, living conditions, social activities, student/teacher relationships, rules, work, and volunteer work. Married couples and student housing. Campus health care, 1946-1948. Building changes at WSU. Returning as a student in 1985. Differences between student community and Pullman community.
Personal background. Family members who are WSU graduates. Reasons for choosing WSU. Requirements for agriculture. Attitude toward WSU. Reasons for choosing major. Student experiences at WSU - classes, a typical day, wife, grades, fraternities, professors, and social and religious activities. Thoughts on studying and impact of courses on career. Drug use on campus. Professional career as orchardist in Prosser. Support of Greek system. Cougar athletics. Current contact with WSU. Political support for WSU. Needs of the state. National issues during the 1970s.
Personal background. Grade school and high school experiences in Pullman. Experiences as an Army nurse on WSU campus during the Flu Epidemic of 1918. Army service.
Biography of Tjomsland. Work with State Office of Public Instruction, 1950-1960. Capital Outlay Program for Washington. Design and construction of schools in the state. Professional career at WSU, 1960-1979. Department of Education. Retirement and work outside of the United States. Outstanding issues in education today.
Personal background and education. WSU career, 1955-83. First chair of Education department, 1964. Education program - heavy loads, chair duties, growth, transition to department, growth of specialty areas, and minority programs. Current problems in education and adult education. Pluses and minuses of chairmanship. Planning and building of Cleveland Hall and the Education Library. Faculty cooperation and social activities. Retirement.
Personal background. Student days at WSC - athletics, buildings/facilities, professors, majors, and sororities. Professional career as high school teacher and coach. Personal background on Vatnsdal's husband, J. Russell Vatnsdal, a professor of Mathematics at WSU. Mildred Vatnsdal's professional career at WSU, 1930-1932. Mathematics department - teaching loads, chairmen, association with the College of Engineering. Taught Air Corps students during WWII. Establishment of retirement program at WSU.
Wheat variety and disease research. WSU career, 1931-76. Cooperation with WSU. Team research. Cooperation and support from farmers and wheat organizations. Technology improvements for wheat research. Federal and state colleagues. Problems with the program. Importance of WSU's contributions to the region, and importance of endowments to WSU. The Vogel Fund for the support of research and graduate students. Western Wheat Quality Laboratory.
Personal background. Career at WSU, 1952-77. Early days at WSU and colleagues. Work with professional organizations. Problems and projects dealt with - selection of superintendents, school projections (Kellogg Project in the Columbia Basin), and school district policies. Changes in school administration. Education curriculum at WSU. Discussion of Comparative Education Society tour of Eastern-bloc countries. Department's outreach to public schools. Current and future issues in education. Education department fishing trips.
Personal background. Family members who have graduated from WSU. Student days at WSC - finances, dining hall rules, athletics, social life, buildings, fashions, dormitory living, and classes.
Personal background. Family members who are WSU graduates. Student days at WSU - classes, job, dormitory living, graduation, finances, equipment, typical day, dining hall, and athletics.
Personal biography. Student days at WSC, 1919-23. Professional career at WSC and WSU, 1928-66. Discussion of the Architecture department, including curriculum, faculty, enrollment, architectural engineering degree, and the split between the University Architect's Office and the Department of Architectural Engineering in 1946. Also, design, construction, location, and use of various buildings on campus. Work with architects, 1923-28. The Great Depression and WWII years at WSC. Weller's teaching style. Professional organizations. Issues in architecture today. Retirement activities. Mission of a land-grant university.
Personal background. Professional WSU career, 1948-1969. Establishment of the Philosophy department and its expansion. McCarthyism in the Pacific Northwest. Events leading up to President Wilson Compton's resignation. Change in election of department chairs. Composition of the Philosophy department. Reaction to Wells' opposition to the Vietnam War. Teaching at the University of Illinois, Chicago Circle. Account of Wilson Compton's acquisition of Priest Lake property, known as Beaver Creek Camp Association.
Philosophy department - faculty, facilities, graduate program, and chairmanship. McCarthyism and WSU. Development of the Philosophy department during the 1950s.
Professional career at WSU beginning in 1942, then intermittently. Then, returned in 1970 as secretary to the History department. Retired in 1988. Impressions of the History department. Other History department secretaries. Graduate students. Faculty. Personal background. Chairmen.
Extensive discussion on Student Strike of 1936 and Yothers' role in it as chairman.
Personal background. Professional career and duties, 1936-67. Recollections of early WSU campus. Administrative processes, 1930s and 1940s. Young's publication, "75th Anniversary of Washington Agricultural Experiment Stations History." Dean Edward Johnson's administration. President Compton's ideas. President Holland's administration. Student Strike of 1936. Johnson Hall. World War II years. Columbia Basin development. Colleagues. Unity of the various agricultural units. Experiment stations.
The collection consists of a single scrapbook, focused primarily on her undergraduate years at Washington State College, but also including images from her high school and childhood years. Not counting blank pages, there are 37 pages of photographs and text, or 231 individual images. One page includes photographs of art done during a summer of coursework at the University of Washington, studying under Alexander Archipenko.
In addition to photographs, the collection contains numerous caricatures drawn by Feves of her college friends and teachers.
Handwritten labels and art in white were created by Betty; labels in other colors were primarily added by her husband Lou.
The collection contains football programs from Washington State University (Washington State College before 1959). The 1906 program is the earliest known to exist, though we do not know for certain that there were no earlier ones. The collection is incomplete; the majority of the programs are home games.
This collection consists of records of the Common Ministry at Washington State University and some of its predecessor groups. It includes correspondence, annual reports, financial records, design drawings and other documents related to the Koinonia House, information about programs and missions, photographs (slides and prints), materials related to national organizations for campus ministries, grant applications, and miscellaneous items.
Preliminary inventory:
Box 1. History of campus ministries; Cooperative Ministries in Higher Education (CMHE) information; United Ministries in Higher Education (UMHE) information; financial documents; Common Ministry historical information.
Box 2. Common Ministry historical information (continued); Common Ministry policies; Common Ministry Last Lecture Series; financial information; Common Ministry Council; Common Ministry programs; grant applications; brochures; photographs (prints and negatives).
Box 3. Denominations; CMHE; UMHE; community organizations; national level campus ministry organizations.
Box 4. UMHE; CHHE; partner denominations.
Box 5. Common Ministry Council minutes, 1983-2006.
Box 6. Common Ministry Council minutes, 1966-1983; local operating committee of the Koinonia House minutes; Washington State Commission on Ministries in Higher Education minutes, 1973-1974; Common Ministry annual reports.
Box 7. Common Ministry annual reports (continued); Directors' programs correspondence; K-House videos (VHS, 3 items).
Box 8. Slides (unlabeled binder with slides of programs, events, etc., circa 1970s-1990s); financial information, 1950s-1980s.
Box 9. Slides of mission trips to Latin America, 1980s (5 carousels).
Box 10. Correspondence, 1962-2002; committee information, 1970s; student program files: Plunge programs, mission trips, peer ministry.
Box 11. Student programs (continued); Building information (K-House), 1970-1975; policies, WSU information, circa 1970-1975.
Box 12. Building information and WSU information (continued); Westminister Foundation; Presbytery of Spokane; local churches.
Box 13. Local churches (continued); Common Ministry information, 1960s.
Boxes 14-15. Rolled design drawings for remodel of Koinonia House building; also landscape plans and sketches (some reproductions).
Containers 16-17 (oversize folders). Plans for K-House remodel, 1971; student design for K-house remodel, 2005; event posters and broadsides.
Contains reports, correspondence, and memoranda related to safety improvements such as the updating of sprinklers and fire alarms within residence halls. Halls included are McCroskey Hall, Stevens Hall, Eastlick Hall, Duncan Dunn Hall, and Wilmer-Davis Hall. Documents range from 1991-1993.
Signed typescript that concerns U.N. charter and autographs. This letter is addressed from New York to Howes Norris, Jr., in Vinyard Haven, Massachusetts, and dated August 9, 1945.
The collection contains aphorisms, correspondence, photographs, pictorials, journals, writings and translations by and about Lewis Thompson. The main series headings were taken from the work done on the papers by Richard Lannoy when he used the Thompson archives for the book Mirror to the Light. A copy of the book is included in this collection (Series 1). The Anthology series (Series 2) contains either hand-written or typed pages of passages from books that Thompson considered important enough to keep. This collection functioned as his library as he had no money to buy books.
The Aphorisms (Series 3) are comprised mostly of 3"x5" slips of paper on which Thompson wrote his thoughts on topics ranging from the body to eating to yoga. The small slips are in Boxes 4, 5, and 6. Care was taken to maintain the order of the aphorisms, so all were numbered in the upper right hand corner. The alphabet section cards have been added to help the user in finding aphorisms on particular subjects. The topic heading slips were copied from the slips that Thompson had used. The paper on which the topic headings were written was highly acidic and was discarded. Thompson wrote some of his aphorisms on larger slips of paper. These were removed from the small file boxes, unfolded, and placed in folders. A slip of paper was put in its place in the small file box on which was written the folder number where that page had been placed.
The Correspondence (Series 4) is mostly from Thompson to his relatives and a few close friends. The final folder of correspondence contains a folder of letters kept by Blanca Schlamm after Thompson's death. These condolence letters are from relatives and friends.
The Journals series (Series 5) gives a glimpse into Thompson's life in India. Some parts of the journals were written on 3"x5" slips and are in Box 7. As with the aphorisms, the larger sheets that were pulled from this small file box have been noted with slips of paper telling where that numbered page may be found.
There is only one folder of Photographs (Series 6). It contains the only known photographs of Thompson to exist as well as photographs of Thompson's friends in India.
The Pictorial series (Series 7) consists of pictures by children which tell a well-known story with pictures, as well as pencil sketches of children by Thompson.
The Poems (Series 8) are all original works by Thompson. Some are hand-written and some are typed out in preparation to send to publishers.
The Prose series (Series 9) includes essays and articles by Thompson to be submitted for publication. This section includes Thompson's Autobiography, as well as Such Stuff: Book of Dreams.
The Talks With Gurus (Series 10) are notes taken by Thompson during talks with his teachers and other spiritual leaders.
The Translation (Series 11) section shows that Thompson spent much of his time translating the works of those authors he deemed important. He seemed especially interested in translating poetry.
The Miscellaneous material (Series 12) includes manuscript items and notes that had no logical section in which to be placed or were loose when the collection was received.
Homestead patents given to Nancy, Joseph and John Pogue, Okanogan Co., Washington, 1901-1905.
Signed holograph written on letterhead of the New York Women's Suffrage Society. Letter from Lillie Devereux Blake (New York) is addressed to "My Dear Prince."
Contains contracts related to the updating of technology in Avery Hall, the remodel of several small rooms in Cleveland Hall, and the improvement of water functions in Eastlick and French Administration. Contains correspondence, memoranda, as well as financial and administrative documents.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
Chiefly letters to Mr. W. Sunderland. Includes two holograph poems by Edith Sitwell: "La Russe" and "Yesterday"; a holograph note by Osbert Sitwell; and two printed items.
This collection includes the Buckley Dairy files. These files include Buckley irrigation files regarding costs, field notes, and agreements. The Buckley water system agreement files and submittal documents are included.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
This collection consists of approximately 600 photographs and photograph negatives of the inland Northwest, believed to have been taken by Charles Yocom. Photographs document the nesting sites and migratory patterns of Canada geese, particularly relating to geographical features such as lakes, rivers, and tributaries in the eastern portion of Washington state.
The collection includes historic corporate records, photographs, and ephemera of Tree Top, Inc. In addition to the cooperative's records, the collection also includes earlier materials from Tree Top's predecessor company, which was owned by Bill Charbonneau. The collection also contains oral histories and other materials created during company-sponsored history projects in 1980, 2003, and 2008-2010.
Contains mostly memoranda, meeting minutes, correspondence, and reports related to the development of new student and faculty orientation materials from1976-1979. Items also include the maps and guides of the libraries and a series of reports related to the English 101 project.
This collection consists of daily sales and accounting ledgers, inventories, catalogs, music books, brochures, and ephemera from the Hirzel Music Company, a family owned business in Lewiston, Idaho.
Correspondence, clippings, pamphlets, brochures and other papers re: activities at Washington State University, Arthur Walsh's father's treatment at Mayo Clinic, and his military career.
The Leila Wall Hunt Papers include articles on home economics, published and in typescript; student notebooks on sewing and meal planning, 1906-1907; awards, certificates and diplomas; clippings; photographs; and donor correspondence, 1963-1966.
Files from the International Programs department from 1987-1997. Files contain reports and studies on the Jordan project. WSU entered the Jordan Project with the aid of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of Jordan. Files include studies, mail, draft reports, and official reports.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
This collection contains papers of the George (1905-1998) and Clara (1911-1994) Thallheimer. Most of the collection consists of diaries written by both George and Clara between the years of 1946 and 1988. The collection also contains miscellaneous notebooks, a personal account book from 1935, and a video recording (VHS) of George Thallheimer's memorial service.
Preliminary Inventory:
Box 1:
Diaries of George and Clara Thallheimer (1951-1988), and a personal account book (1935).
Box 2:
Diaries of George and Clara Thallheimer (1958-1977), and videocassette of George Thallheimer's memorial service (1998).
Box 3:
Diaries of George and Clara Thallheimer (1946-1962), an account book, and several small miscellaneous notebooks.
The collection donated by Janet Murrow consists of ninety-eight black and white photographs, one black and white montage, and two color photographs of Edward R. Murrow. Included are three pieces of correspondence addressed to E.R. or Janet Murrow, a New York Times advertisement for E.R. Murrow and CBS, and three articles from the news magazines Time, Look, and Newsweek. A collection of twenty-two black and white photographs taken in 1942 by the Hutchison Studio, Pullman, Washington, has been added to the Murrow collection.
Bound volumes of annual reports and project reports.
Certificates, official correspondence of the Colville Agency and other papers re: medical service to the Indians. Also roll of the Colville Indians, Inchelium District, ca. 1928.
This collection consists of typescript transcripts, prepared by C. C. Van Arsdol's grandson, Ted Van Arsdol, of correspondence and reports dating from 1887-1961 about railroad construction in Washington and Idaho, construction of Lewiston Grade Highway, and other consulting services. Also includes photographs (prints and negatives) of the railroad survey of Hells Canyon (Snake River), 1928.
Typescript reminiscences from Mrs. Kate Roberts Williams, re: frontier life first in Ohio and then in Washington.
The Mari Tsuruyama Okumura Collection consists of several photographs taken between 1936 and 1946. Many of the photographs prior to 1940 depict Tatsuya as an official in a Buddhist Church in Los Angeles, California. The photographs from 1940-1942 are of the family in San Jose, California and Heart Mountain Relocation Center in Wyoming. The photographs from 1944-1945 are from both Heart Mountain and Tule Lake Relocation Center. The collection also includes a relief carving of Heart Mountain and some secondary documents about the Tsuruyama family.
Four individual volumes, recording observations of Washington State College (later Washington State University) wheat trials. They generally contain data on wheat types, including names, source, planting date, head type, date headed, plant type, lodging, smut heads, test weight, grain weight, and yield.
The 1910, 1948, and 1955 volumes contain little more than wheat recordings, while the 1934-1939 volume additionally contains notes on multiple work-related subjects by the volume creator, E.F. Gaines. The 1955 book was created by Orville Vogel, and the authorship of the other two is unclear.
Based on two post-it notes (since removed) dated Sept. 2007 and containing brief correspondence between a Bob and a Kim, these items were likely gathered as possible display items for the then new Vogel Building at WSU. One of the notes explains that other volumes had existed in the seed house, but “those books are gone.”
Primarily consists of meeting minute notes, memoranda, and correspondence ranging from 1970-1986. Also includes project proposals, reports on the development of policies related to the international programs, as well as correspondence related to the Potato Commission. Also consists of publications created by the WSU Horticulture Club.
Records of a subscription library at Florence, Idaho, 1862-1863.
View of Palouse Falls, Washington. Color lithograph removed from Report on the Construction of a Military Road from Fort Walla-Walla to Fort Benton, by Capt. John Mullan, 1863. After an original drawn by G. Sohon. Lithograph produced by Bowen and Co., lithographers, Philadelphia.
This collection includes records and events regarding the Mount St. Helene's volcano eruption. Files include eruption files and volcano files separated by volume.
The collection consists of a variety of small sets of materials. Present are: Carpet and furnishing fabric samples from the opening of the Owen Science and Engineering Library. A 2006 Library Summit data set. Open stacks issues between 1985 and 1992. Owen Sci. Library orientation documents. Science Library newsletters, 1972 to 1979. New Holland Addition (Terrell) move planning documents, 1993-1994. Photos from when Holland, Owen, and Terrell were each new, 1950-1994. Some reorganization papers from the 1990s to 2010s.
This collection consists of three distinct sets of materials related to Frank Kottke's role as a member of the Citizen's Advisory Committee for Pullman Public Transit, as a citizen informing U.S. senators and representatives on his position on matters of public policy, and as a husband writing his wife during his time with the Army during World War II. This collection contains correspondence, minutes and reports related to public transportation in Pullman, Washington, and clippings informing his public policy letters to U.S. political figures.
This collection consists of correspondence, meeting minutes, and constitution of the Friends of the Museum of Art at Washington State University dating from 1977-1981. The correspondence includes letters to and from the organization, as well as financial reports and meeting agendas, from the files of June Bierbower.
Photocopy of a manuscript diary written from New York State to Seattle, Washington, 1907.
Mimeographs of the records of the Spokane chapter of the American Institute of Architects, 1964-1973. Chiefly Executive Committee minutes, rosters, and newsletters.
The Axel Leonard Melander Papers include clippings, notes, and manuscripts, 1903-1924--re: insects and diseases, such as typhoid.
Land deed to James T. Crewdson of Spokane Falls, Washington Territory, for the heirs of Sarah M. Garrett, deceased.
Diary of Oregon pioneer, Solomon Strong, 1869-1873.
Poems, letters and drawings sent to Vita Sackville-West. In the letters, Tennant thanks her for her friendship and appreciation of his work. Healso discusses gardening. Includes one photograph of Tennant inscribed to Vita. Includes photocopied information about Stephen Tennant collected by Archives staff.
Holograph letter, signed, from Raphael Hoyle, an artist associated with the Wilkes Expedition (The United States South Seas Exploring Expedition), to Commodore Charles Ridgely, in advance of sailing. Hoyle discusses the supplies and equipment he acquired in advance of the expedition; a list of these materials is included as part of the letter.
This collection consists of materials related to the development and management of the College of Pharmacy, including plans for buildings and remodeling, correspondence with the state Council on Postsecondary Education, College of Pharmacy publications, national accreditation documents, faculty information, budget reports, and pharmacy faculty meeting minutes.
These records of the Department of Military Science consist of one series: newspaper clippings. Although military training has been a part of Washington State University's curriculum since the institution's first classes in 1892, these records reflect the department's activities from 1967 through 1975. The series is comprised of newspaper clippings concerning personnel promotions, policy changes, recruiting efforts, presentations of awards, and other events of cadet interest. The folders are arranged chronologically.
Correspondence, notes, school exercise book, invitation to an execution, chiefly Ohio and Pennsylvania, 1872-1903.
The collection comprises audio and video produced by, for, or about Washington State University, dating from 1930 up to 2005. However, the majority of the media is from the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s. Included in the collection are news stories, promotional videos, recordings of significant performances, events, and speakers, and unfinished stock footage used in creating these and other productions. Video found here was created by numerous sources, notably WSU's various news services and its campus television and radio stations. Many of the items were created by non-WSU organizations, either in the form of news (or other) stories about the school, or in the form of promotional or other materials contracted to other institutions by campus departments.
It is important to be aware that much of the description of this collection comes from the labels on the media or the containers they came in; it was not possible to view all the materials to determine accuracy of the labeling. As a result, users may discover upon viewing these items that their contents do not match their labels, and a few items have been discarded since this collection was created after we discovered the actual contents were not related to Washington State University. In some cases duplicate copies of materials are retained; this is primarily due to the significance of the material in question and the ongoing deterioration of electronic media, as well as due to the fact that uncertain labeling means items may not match their description, and that similarly (but not identically) named items may not actually be the same thing.
The majority of the collection is video recordings, primarily VHS tapes and U-matic 3/4" tapes. Other videotape formats include S-VHS, M II, Betacam, BetacamSP, and one open reel 1" Type C. Other non-tape video include digital media on DVD, CD, and MiniDV; and film in 16mm and Super 16mm. Audio formats include 1/8" standard audio cassette tapes, 1/4" open reel tapes (reel-to-reel), and one 8-track tape.
The collection consists of 200 View-Master reels and one View-Master viewer (Model C, black). The collection is intended primarily as a photographic artifact rather than as a true historic resource, though reels 108, 112, 116, 145, and 151 are all with the Pacific Northwest scope that the MASC's collections usually cover. The images collected here primarily cover the western and southwestern United States, the northeastern USA and southeastern Canada, and Mexico.
Most of the correspondence is of a personal nature, primarily family material. Pimsleur's widow continued to add to it after her husband's death in 1962. The Press Book, included in the papers, contains clippings pertaining to Pimsleur's career as well as a few letters of interest, notably from Vincent d'Indy, Rubin Goldmark, Dmitri Mitropoulos and Willem Mengelberg. The musical sketches provide a mass of fragments and scraps of paper, with little apparent order or identification. There are virtually no complete scores in the second series, but a number of scores are included on microfilm in series III. Series IV encompasses a set of paintings and drawings by an unknown hand.
This collection contains personal and professional papers of Dr. Samuel H. Smith during his service as the eighth President of Washington State University, from 1985 to 2000. It includes incoming personal and professional correspondence (some of in on the occasion of his inauguration as president of WSU), newspaper clippings, photographs, awards, WSU memorabilia, and ephemera related to the WSU Museum of Art, some of it signed by the artists.
This collection consists of a bound letterbook for Sibson, Quackenbush, 1886-1887; a ledger of the Pullman Mercantile Company, 1890-1891; and a clipping about L.M. Ringer, Spokesman-Review, May 3, 1908.
This collection contains records of the Pullman Fortnightly Club, from 1893 to 2021. It includes club yearbooks (1893-2015), newspaper clippings, program invitations, photographs, meeting minutes, financial records (1906-1939 and 1988-2004), notes and letters by club historians (starting 1898), and related correspondence, poems by members, meeting memorabilia, book lists, postcards, and multiple scrapbooks. The collection also includes materials pertaining to the 100th, 110th, and 125th anniversaries of the club, copies of the club newsletter "The Clover Leaf" from 1902, and the Constitution of Washington State Federation of Women's Clubs (1896).
Preliminary Inventory:
MS.1996.36
Box 1. Newspaper clippings, copies of programs, program invitations, photographs, meeting memorabilia, book covers, and the Constitution of Washington State Federation of Women's Clubs (1896), as well as correspondence, a video recording (VHS) of the Fortnightly Club 100th Anniversary (October 12, 1993), and audiocassette recordings of meetings (1993-1995).
Box 2. Club yearbook (1914-1915), postcard, scrapbook containing programs from 1908-1976 and newspaper articles.
MS.2004.04
Box 1. Poems by members, meeting minutes and financial records (1906-1939), notes and letters composed by club historians (starting 1898), and newspaper clippings.
Box 2. Photographs, posters, essays, scrapbook of 110th Anniversary, and an account book (1988-2004).
MS.2008.30
Box 1. Club scrapbook compiled for Serena F. (Wallis) Matthews, including programs, correspondence, WSC commencement materials, newspaper clippings, book list, meeting minutes, photographs, certificates, and copies of the club newsletter "The Clover Leaf" from 1902.
Box 2. Club scrapbook, including newspaper clippings, correspondence, financial information, postcards, photographs, and program invitations.
Box 3. 110th Anniversary banner, club scrapbook, including newspaper clippings, photographs, slides, and postcards.
MS.2011.24
Box 1. Club membership and book lists, programs (1893 to 2008), program invitations, and newspaper clippings.
Box 2. Club program invitations, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous papers.
Box 3. Club yearbooks (1993-2014), newspaper clippings, program invitations, and correspondence.
MS. 2014.04
Photographs, materials concerning the 100th and 110th anniversary, copies of club constitution, yearbooks.
MS.2014.26
Box 1. Club yearbooks (1896-1965), photographs, program invitations, newspaper clippings, correspondence, and speeches.
Box 2. Club yearbooks (1965-2003, 2015, 2017-2018) and collected clippings.
MS.2019.16
Box 1. Copy of 2019 revision of Constitution and Bylaws (2019); copy of Memorandum of Understanding with Neill Public Library; Memorabilia of the 2018 125th year anniversary of the club and 2019 Spring Luncheon (2018-2019); Newspaper clippings, Washington/Idaho Symphony program, and newsprint program commemorating community works by club members. (2018-2019)
MS.2021.27
Folder 1 (found in box 1 of MS.2019.16). Newspaper clippings concerning club members as well as the 100th anniversary of the 19th amendment; Washington/Idaho Symphony program.
In a very real sense this collection is one of personal papers insofar as the bulk of the items is concerned with Mr. Hill and his friends without having the status of working papers or office records. The items are those that were meaningful to Mr. Hill over the years and express his selection of the papers he wished to preserve.
Here is correspondence to and from Mr. Hill interfiled and combined with other printed materials used during his tenure as school teacher and administrator, politician, Representative in the Washington State Legislature and in the U.S. Congress, speaker and lecturer to secular and religious audiences, author of "Letters to the Editor" in diverse newspaper, Indian Agency Superintendent, Radio Farm Program reporter and commentator, and Consulting Appraiser for the Columbia River Project.
The collection consists of: Letters sent and received. Here are personal and/or business or official letters from Franklin D. Roosevelt, James A. Farley, Harold L. Ickes, Henry M. Jackson, Warren G. Magnusson, William L. La Follette, William O. Douglas, Hamilton Fish, Albert Gore, Walt Disney, Henry Dvorshak, Estes Kefauver, Clarence C. Dill, Sam Rayburn, John W. McCormack, Clarence D. Martin, Adlai E. Stevenson, Linus Pauling, Roland H. Hartley, Robert Ripley, Ted Malone, and others; Speech and lecture manuscripts; Miscellaneous newspaper and magazine clippings that served as a source-file for speeches and writings; Newsletters and press releases while a member of Congress; Pamphlets relating to scenic, economic, and agricultural Washington State and the Columbia River Project; Campaign and personal newspaper clippings; Pictures, both personal and official; and Miscellaneous items, including a manuscript of an extended essay entitled "Why I Broke with Roosevelt."
This colleciton contains an extensive swath of material related to the Office of Equity and Diversity including but not limited to administrative material like admission reports and council notes but also legislative material and reports on Affirmative Action. Items also include grants related to improving diversity on the WSU campus, complaints filed related to equity and inclusion.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
The papers of Washington State University Political Science Professor and Department Chair, H. Paul Castleberry. Materials are concerned with teaching of political science, and with research on international affairs, world politics, the foreign policy of the United States, politics and government in the Middle East, the Vietnam War, professional associations for political science, and to Castleberry's service on the Eastern Washington Area Agency for Aging.
The first four series are comprised of materials donated in the 1980s. Correspondence make up the first series, subdivided with foreign and domestic foci. The second series is a large body of material concerned with various facets of the War in Vietnam. The third and fourth series deal with public issues and politics in the State of Washington and matters concerning Washington State University, respectively.
The remaining seven series are materials donated in 1990 and are each based on some general area of the discipline of Political Science, and reflecting his research interests and teaching duties: Series 5: American government; Series 6: Correspondence; Series 7: Eastern Washington Area Agency for Aging; Series 8: International Law and Organization; International Relations; Series 9: Middle East; Series 10: United States Foreign Policy; Series 11: Tape Recordings of Speakers and Lecturers.
Included in this collection are an Industrial Workers of the World chart, a pamphlet, songs, a leaflet, a blank membership card and delegate credentials, and a letter listing pamphlets and prices, 1918-1967. A chart shows the structure of the industrial system. One pamphlet is titled "I.W.W." Songs include "One Big Union of All Workers;" "Proletarian and Petit-Burgeois" by Austin Lewis; "The Advancing Proletariat," by Abner Woodruff. A leaflet is titled "What sort of union is the I.W.W. asking you to build?"
The records of the Women's Physical Education Department span the years 1923 through 1976 and are concerned with dance, gymnastics, and the Physical Education Majors (P.E.M.) Club. The collection includes correspondence news, program preparations and schedules, newspaper clippings, and photographs.
The papers are grouped in two series. The first series contains correspondence (1923-1927) between W.S.U. faculty and Miss Elizabeth Burchenal, a folk dance specialist who conducted institutes on campus. Also in the first series are materials from the annual dance/gymnastics festival as well as other dance related activities. Memorabilia from the annual P.E.M. Club high school activities day, the club charter, and the club constitution make up the second series.
Primarily consists of reports related to the WSU Creamery from 1994-1997. Contains a binder related to problems at the Creamery and various warranties that exist. Also contains Operations and Maintenance manual related to the Creamery
Chiefly correspondence from Elizabeth Marion. Includes typed letter, signed (3 pages), dated 1981, from Glen Adams (Ye Galleon Press) discussing book printing.
This collection consists of records of the Pullman (WA) Investment Club. It includes treasurers' reports, minutes, portfolio summaries, membership lists, meeting schedules, by-laws, and other documents related to the club.
Documents, certificates and other papers of the Price family. Includes letters from Eliza B. Garfield and Lucretia R. Garfield; map of Little Sioux Township, Harrison County, Iowa, by Barzillai Price.
The Patti Hirahara Collection contains newspapers pertaining to her family, her father’s and grandfather’s photographs of Heart Mountain Relocation Center, and the incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II. The newspapers are mainly from California and Seattle but there are several from the Northwest Region. Issues of the Rafu Shimpo and the North American post comprise the bulk of the collection.
Within the collection Ms. Hirahara has noted several articles that reference the George and Frank C. Hirahara Collection and specific items within the collection. Reference to material from the Hirahara Collection include photographs contained in Manuscripts Archives and Special Collections, exhibits featuring the Hirahara Collection, and the programs for the stage musical Allegiance, which gives thanks for the use of photograph for the set design, and for the Los Angeles Area Emmy Awards. A documentary titled Witness: The Legacy of Heart Mountain won 3 Los Angeles Area Emmys and was co-produced and written by David Ono. The collection also includes 2 photocopies containing maps for incarceration centers, which were euphemistically called “Relocation Centers”.
This typescript is titled, "Stevens County fifty years ago: Tom Graham tells adventures of pioneer settlers in Colville." It includes a foreword by C.S. Kingston, an index, and a letter to Mary Jamieson.
Booklists, advertisements, Christmas cards and other material from the Cuala Press; some with manuscript notes of Elizabeth Yeats.
Primarily contains files, building plans, and correspondence related to the modernization of the WSU Power plant. Also contains contracts and specification reports. Files range from 2003- 2006.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
This small collection of papers related to biochemist Charles Glen King was part of a substantial vertical file created and maintained by the Owen Science and Engineering Library at Washington State University during the 1970s. The collection includes speeches given by King, ephemeral publications, articles about King and some of his honors and awards, and a small number of miscellaneous items.
The collection is comprised of Gustav Bliesner's scrapbooks, journals, correspondence, professional documents, office files, along with a large quantity of miscellaneous collected material, primarily printed ephemera. Bliesner carefully and painstakingly documented his professional activities and accomplishments; his civic and social activities are also represented. The scrapbook volumes, which Bliesner called "My Life's Philosophy," constitute the bulk of the collection.
The collection primarily consists of black and white, outdoor photographs of Alaskan scenes and autographed portraits of Byrd and Amundsen. Photographs by the Lomen Brothers of Nome, Alaska, 1920-1932.
The majority of the collection is programs, photographs, and other documents relating to theatrical productions produced by the State College of Washington (later Washington State University) theater programs, dating from the very first productions (1924) to the very last (2011). This collection is more or less supplemental to the previously existing collections (see Related Materials), but includes the only known photographs and programs of many of WSC’s earliest productions, and of many of the later supporting performance groups. A number of non-final theses and student papers are included, many of which detail aspects of WSU’s theater performances.
Series 1: Papers, Programs, and Photographs is divided into three subseries: Subseries 1.1 is WSU theatre programs, photographs, and documents; Subseries 1.2 consists of departmental papers and photographs, and programs from other performance programs, including the WSU Theatre-affiliated Summer Palace; Subseries 1.3 is student papers, primarily Masters Theses which lack documentation certifying them as accepted. Some may indeed be final copies, but they may also be drafts or unaccepted theses. The students in this subseries are only those for whom the Libraries did not already hold an official copy.
Series 2: Card-mounted photographs, 1949-1968 and compact discs, 2003-2011and consists of two format-based subseries: Subseries 2.1 is card-mounted photographs from WSU Office of University Publications and Printing; Subseries 2.2 is CDs of performance photographs.
Series 3: Scrapbooks, 1943-1972 consists of oversized scrapbooks.
Researchers should be aware that due to the format-based series structure of this collection, materials from a given production could potentially be found in all three series.
Printed proof of an agreement to create a non-profit cooperative association, the Washington Wheat Growers Association, and a related corporation, the Washington Growers Warehousing Corporation. The purpose of the association was " ... for co-operative marketing, for eliminating speculation and waste and for stabilizing the food markets in the interests of the growers and the public and in accordance with similar obligations undertaken by other growers."
Office and administrative files from the department of Agriculture and Home Economics from 1975-1985. Includes office files, budget reports, admissions files, and correspondence. Seven linear feet of Administrative subject files; two linear feet of Budget files.
This collection consists of papers of Washington State University professor of biochecmistry Bruce McFadden. It includes article reprints, honors, notes from a class taught by a famous chemist, conference programs and proceedings, a binder honoring McFadden on his retirement from Washington State University in 1997, and miscellaneous items.
A collection of research reports on the role of agriculture, specific plants, and the cattle market in Lesotho primarily from 1983-1984. Additional reports from 1981 and 1986 mixed within.
Correspondence, photographs, postcards and other papers received by August Gustavus Rosen, an immigrant to Washington state, from his family in the Baltic States.
The E.O. Holland Radio Speech ("Should I go to College?"), 1940, consists of one cassette tape. It was abstracted in 1979 by Margot H. Knight.
The Eastern Washington Historical Media collection contains audio and video documenting eastern Washington state life, primarily focusing on farming.
Primarily consists of personnel and files related to staffing of the WSU International Programs Development office. Includes proposals related to the study of agriculture in Zimbabwe, Sudan, Romania, Pakistan, Malawi, Yemen, and Indonesia from 1979-1989.
The Esther Pond Smith papers consists largely of research and studies on time and motion, work simplification, and ergonomics. Smith compiled magazine clippings, bulletins, journals, other people’s theses and papers, as well as her own time and motion studies, all of which she used to write Extension Service publications and USDA reports. Smith also collected the Work Simplification Newsletter from Purdue University, numbers 4-20, and The Kitchen Reporter, published by Kelvinator, from the 1940s and 1950s, which are present in the collection. The correspondence in the collection mostly relates to home economics, extension, or work simplification events.
Correspondence, principally with George S. Canfield, John S. Beall, and others; notes, maps, deeds, and other papers concerning real estate transactions throughout the Pacific Northwest, 1915-1916.
Primarily consists of annual expenditure reports related to staff and the cost of various construction projects. Files range from 1949-1981.
'Correspondence of the WSU Foundation from 1983-1987. Correspondence with colleges within WSU as well as with individuals and alumni. Correspondence are labeled by individuals names as well as dates. Includes tape recordings of meetings, 1983-1987
This collection consists of a single item: a letter to John B. Allen of Washington, D.C., dated 1889, about William Thomson's request for a change in the Department of the Interior's ruling in timber-culture land grants.
This collection consists of papers from the Classified Staff Association from 1978-1982. Papers include correspondence, pamphlets, reports, and memoranda.
1960 account of emigration to the West, and of Latah, Washington.
Written in memory of Robert McCrosky, former State College of Washington Board of Regents member (1897-1905, 1909-1922). Four copies. Signed by members of the Board of Regents.
This collection consists of professional papers of Gerald "Jerry" Brong while he worked at Washington State University Libraries during the 1970s. The materials reflect Brong's activities during the first years of the Information Age when libraries diversified not only access to materials through early online networks and databases but also the types of materials they housed especially non-print ones. Brong devoted his attention to the WSU Libraries' growing collection of audiovisual resources, to their use in education, and increasingly to educational technology. His expertise in non-print media and interest in technology's application to library services led to involvement in statewide and national efforts. Among those were his leadership of the Washington State Library Futures Planning Task Force from 1974 to 1975 to develop intrastate cooperation mechanisms to meet the needs of library users in the present and future, advocacy for recognition of the audiovisual specialty nationally through the Association for Educational Communication and Technology and within Washington State's librarian certification, contributions to various divisions of the American Library Association, and participation in the 1979 White House Conference on Library and Information Services.
Series scope and content: This series groups drafts of papers for publication and speeches for conferences with working papers for various task forces at state and national levels and includes related correspondence. Arrangement in large part preserves Brong's original foldering and proceeds chronologically.
Series scope and content: Correspondence and materials related to activities of professional organizations such as the American Library Association and Association for Educational Communication and Technology and to political advocacy regarding federal legislation affecting libraries and higher education are arranged by organization or conference and then chronologically.
Series scope and content: This series gathers memoranda and materials distributed to and by WSU Library Faculty.
The records of the Washington State University Department of Anthropology includes reports, proposals, materials related to the graduate program, departmental minutes, and an accreditation report.
The departmental administration records (Series 1), date from 1964 through 1976, and consists of developmental proposals dealing with the field schools, archeology, social anthropology, sociology, and the budget. Also included in the series are materials related to the graduate program, departmental minutes, and an accreditation report.
The excavation projects records (Series 2), date from 1968 through 1974, and deal with the Marmes and the Ozette projects. Included are reports and proposals as well as correspondence involving Richard Daughtery (Department Chairman), Roald Fryxell (Professor of Anthropology), Charles Fred Bohannan (National Park Service Archeologist), and Gerald Grosso (Project Director). Substantial correspondence is directed to legislators and Congressmen in search of support for the projects.
The records of the Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project are arranged in two series: On-Campus Correspondence Files and In-Country Correspondence Files. These two series contain travel records, travel reports, field notes, quarterly reports, financial records, and correspondence.
Two-color print of a woman wearing an elaborate hat.
Receipts, bills, certificates, clippings, and other professional papers, 1827-1887.
Administrative files from Physical Plant about the Animal Science building, from 1994-1998. Includes costs of replacing items and item conditions within the Animal Science building, and costs on upgrading waste incinerator and the cost proposal for a new incinerator. Also includes early correspondence regarding draft sites for the WSU Pathological Waste and Solid Waste incinerator, as well as janitorial staff files.
Collection consists of 22 letters and 2 pieces of ephemera from the correspondence between Dean Royal D. Sloan of the College of Engineering and a former student, principally during World War II. The student also updates Dean Sloan regarding former classmates and their war assignments, as well as the student’s own post-war career. Dean Sloan provides encouragement and information to the student regarding changes at Washington State University.
This collection consists of five installments of papers of Catherine May Bedell, related to her activities as a public official after leaving the House of Representatives in 1971. These papers are from her service as a member of the U.S. International Trade Commission (1971-1981), along with a small amount of material related to Amtrak (1970-1971).
Preliminary inventory (NOTE: box-level inventory lists are available for each of these accessions upon request from repository):
MS.1977.51: Catherine May Bedell Papers, circa 1970s. 20 boxes. Materials related to Bedell's service as a member of the United States International Trade Commission. Contents include Trade Expansion Act of 1962, Tarriff Investigations, U.S. Tarriff Commission, subject files, correspondence, various hearings, and files related to Congress and trade legislation.
MS.1980.51: Catherine May Bedell Papers on U.S. International Trade Commission, 1975-1979. 9 boxes. Includes reports and investigations.
MS.1981.13: Catherine May Bedell Papers on U.S. International Trade Commission, 1977-1980. 13 boxes. Includes reports, files on complaints of individual companies and specific categories of products.
MS.1981.47: Catherine May Bedell Papers on U.S. International Trade Commission and miscellaneous papers, 1979-1981. 20 boxes. Includes reports, files related to specific products, commissioner documents, and a small amount of non-USITC papers (Amtrak, Grand Coulee Dam).
MS.1982.03: Catherine May Bedell U.S International Trade Commission and Amtrak Papers, 1970-1981. 9 boxes. Includes files related to the International Trade Act of 1979, other trade laws, trade cases, reports, tarriff schedules, fiscal appropriations for the USITC, press releases, and miscellaneous materials.
Carl F. Reuss papers.
This collection consists of papers (primarily publications) of rural sociologist and Washington State College faculty member Carl F. Reuss.
The material relates to the conduct of the "Management Review and Analysis Program" study of 1974, job classification studies in 1972-74 and the Commission on the Status of Women during 1971-72.
The collection consists of paper currency, scrip, and one bond. Most of the items were issued by the Confederate States of America or individual states of the Confederacy. The collection also includes two specimens of scrip (a substitute for currency), one issued by the Ladd and Company plantation on the island of Kauai circa 1839-1844, and the other issued by the United States Army circa 1860s.
This collection includes documents, glass plate negatives, photographs, and lantern slides of fruit, orchards, and other agricultural subjects dating from 1900 to 1915, with the bulk dating from the 1905 to 1911 period when Thornber was in the Horticulture Department at Washington State College and horticulturist for the college’s Washington Agricultural Experiment Station, and dealing with his work there.
Contained in this collection are four boxes of paper documents related to specific fruits and agricultural notes on fruit production, 746 glass plate negatives (with a few film negatives) and 41 photo prints of images relating to fruit production and other various agricultural products, and 109 instructional lantern slides of cement products and images of houses.
Series one consists of paper documents, in two subseries. Subseries one is personal papers and notes, including crop records, lecture notes, agricultural topic specific notes, and fruit specific. Subseries two consists of fruit-specific observations, separated into four subcategories: fruit lists of varieties, primarily apples, grapes, and plums; cross-sections of fruits, primarily apples; written descriptions of fruit trees, again primarily apples; and crop records.
Series two is the bulk of the collection, and consists of photographs, primarily glass plate negatives. These are arranged into subseries by format. Subseries one consists of glass plate negatives and photographs and primarily consists of images of fruit, fruit trees, and other agricultural subjects. Each plate was given a subject identifier and grouped together based on the subjects, such as apples, blackberries, landscapes, people, trees (non-fruit), etc. Subseries two contains lantern slides, primarily instructional, split into three subcategories: concrete promotional slides, hand-drawn agricultural cartoons, and interiors and exteriors of various homes.
In box nine, included with the glass plates of People, there are a select few Thornber family photographs, including glass negatives of Thornber and Hough around the time of their marriage and of Gordon and Merrill as boys.
Typescript transcripts of correspondence, legal papers, deeds, diaries, notes, and other papers of the Oppenheimer Brothers, especially supplying and working freight for the army, Colville and Marcus, Washington, 1859-1897.
This collection consists of a nearly-complete set of annual programs of The Wranglers, photographs, and a scrapbook. In addition to event schedules for each academic year, the annual programs include lists of current and former members. The collection also includes a small number of programs from the group's annual Ladies' Night banquet, and programs from a Wranglers group at Kansas State College.
Charles Gounod signed holograph concerning Gounod's brother-in-law's illness.
This collection contains papers of Gertrude M. (Bodean) and Roy E. Spencer, dated between 1941 and 1975. The collection primarily consists of papers related to Gertrude and Roy's Pullman, WA businesses: Gertrude's Beauty Salon and Spencer Production and Sales Company, including financial statements and advertisements. The collection also contains a large scrapbook maintained by Gertrude Spencer for the Palouse chapter (number 21) of the Washington State Cosmetology Association, documenting events related to National Beauty Salon Week and the organization's public engagements.
Preliminary Inventory:
Box 1: Business papers related to the finances of Gertrude's Beauty Salon, including balance sheets, between 1965 and 1974, and purchase order forms of Spencer Production and Sales Company, between 1950 and 1959.
Box 2: Materials related to Spencer Production and Sales Company, including prepared financial statements (1965), correspondence, sales receipts, banking records, between 1958 to 1967, as well as a prepared financial statement (balance sheet) for both Roy E. and Gertrude M. Spencer in 1967.
Box 3: Correspondence, receipts, a client index, miscellaneous business papers, as well as various artifacts related to Spencer Production and Sales Company, between 1949 and 1962.
Box 4: Scrapbook (1955-1971) documenting the Washington State Cosmetology Association, with a focus on Palouse Chapter 21, including chapter meetings, community events, and charitable services. The scrapbook also covers several years of National Beauty Salon Week and related advertisements.
Manuscript notebook of cures, remedies, and medicines for horses. Also includes miscellaneous notations, drawings, and illustrated printed covers.
This collection consists of papers of Washington State University Range Management Specialist Ben F. Roche. It includes the manuscript for his 1983 book, Range Plants: Their Identification, Usefulness, and Management; plant collection books kept by Cindy Talbott Roche; writings and presentations; and other miscellaneous papers.
The collection consists of Cooperative Extension Service records relating to publications and new releases relating to agricultural issues.
Documents from the WSU Controllers Office pertaining to the budget from 1908-1970. Items include correspondence, meeting minutes, budget reports, financial records, and business records.
Mortgage between the Norwegian Evangelical Lutheran Church of Spokane, Washington, and the Church Extention (sic) Board of the Synod for the Norwegian Evangelical Church of America for $3,000.00.
The collection comprises audio and video produced by, for, or about Washington State University, dating from the 1950s to 2005. The majority of the media is from the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s. The majority of the materials came in individually or in small sets. Included in the collection are news stories, promotional videos, and recordings of significant performances, events, and speakers.
1 6” reel audio tape
1 9” 16mm film.
2 DVDs
1 DVD.
2 CDs.
1 audio-cassette.
2 MiniDVs. Recorded by Tim Marsh.
1 u-matic ¾” video tape.
2 Betacam SP videotapes.
1 S-VHS videotape.
1 VHS
1 VHS
1 VHS
1 VHS
1 VHS. Donated M. Tomacheva, 2019-07.
1 VHS. Donated M. Tomacheva, 2019-07.
1 VHS. Donated M. Tomacheva, 2019-07.
1 VHS. Donated M. Tomacheva, 2019-07.
1 VHS. Donated M. Tomacheva, 2019-07.
1 VHS
1 VHS
2 VHS tapes.
1 Flashdrive
1 VHS
1 VHS
One envelope, labeled "Paid, Wells, Fargo And Co., Over our California and Coast Routes." Addressed to Messrs. Schwabacher Brothers, Walla Walla, W. T. (Washington Territory).
The collection consists of release notices for plant species, dating from 1975 to 2000, plus meeting minutes of Washington State University Cooperative Extension's Cereal Variety Release Committee from 1997 to 2004.
The papers of Ralph Sundquist consist of correspondence, business documents, reports, enclosures, and brochures related to agriculture and his civic interests. Correspondence and business documents make up the first series. The subject files that make up the second series cover a variety of subjects, chiefly related to apple growing and shipping. Agricultural reports by Sundquist, mostly related to apple growing, make up the third series. The fourth series, is focused on Sundquist's civic endeavors with public education, junior colleges, hospitals, churches and the Federal Reserve System. A number of historically significant sales brochures, chiefly for agricultural equipment, have been kept as a distinct fifth series. The final, sixth, series is made up of various oversize materials.
This collection consists of two albums containing mounted pencil sketches by an unidentified artist, depicting church buildings in England. There are approximately 1100 sketches, with captions listing the name and location of the church, as well as the date of the sketch. Each volume includes an index, and volume two contains insertions consisting of correspondence and notes. The volumes were removed from their bindings for preservation purposes in 2008, and the original boards and spine (volume two), including the bookplate of R. Nash Bricknell, were retained. The collection also includes postcards depicting churches in England.
Correspondence, patent documents and reports, and advertisements for the Thomas weeder, 1911-1928.
The material in this collection relates to Carl Milton Brewster and Alfhild Nordby Brewster, and their three children. Most are personal papers, along with some material related to C.M. Brewster's research and teaching at Washington State College.
MS.2005.16: Carl Milton Brewster papers, with some Brewster family papers. The bulk of the collection is scrapbooks, most created by Carl Milton Brewster, on various topics, and notebooks related to his research and teaching.
MS.2006.06: Papers of the Carl Milton Brewster family, mainly Carl MIlton Brewster and his wife, Alfhild Nordby Brewster.
MS.2014.30: This collection of Brewster family papers includes photographs (mainly family photos, including many from their Pullman homes at 900 Campus and 1721 Maple), a small amount of correspondence, and ephemera. Some collectible stamps from C.M. Brewster's stamp collection are also present, including some from Nazi Germany.
Manuscripts and typescript transcripts of articles written by Wakeman on the Whitmans and the Spaldings, and early missions in Washington and Idaho.
Linda Chism collection of documents (reproductions) related to aviators Cloyd and Audrey Artman of Oroville, Washington. It includes photographs, maps, and newspaper and magazine articles. The items were received as digital files, which the repository printed to produce the physical collection.
Linda Chism collected the items in this collection (reproductions) circa 2008, from a variety of sources including archival repositories. The collection also includes Chism's inventory of the items.
Document from Land Office Receiver, Walla Walla, Washington, 1877.
A general history of the Pacific Northwest, undated, and partially the memoir of the unidentified woman author.
This collection contains botanical papers of Ira C. Otis (1861-1938), combined with related papers of other scientists. The collection consists of research file cards and a research notebook on Tragopogon and chromatography laboratory records (dated 1965-1969).
Preliminary Inventory:
Box 1: Research notebook on Tragopogon and chromatography laboratory records (1965-1969) with the names of M. Ownbey and N. F. Belzer, and research file cards (Otis)
Box 2: Research file cards (F. L. Pickett)
Box 3: Research file cards (Otis)
This collection includes records and research documents. Records include Agricultural Research Center binders, History of Change in Extension files, activity reports, directors memos, and various research reports. Enrollment reports, and various department statistic files are included within this collection. Cooperative Extension Services Connection digital publication copies are included in this collection.
This collection consists of annual reports, weekly bulletins, and other papers relating to the Pullman Baptist Church located in Pullman, Washington. The church bulletins date 1954-1960, while the annual reports of the church date 1951-1959. There are two bound volumes of weekly bulletins from 1954 and 1955 that were indexed by church clerk John MacEachern.
Additionally, there are programs from 1921 and 1924, and a 25th anniversary pamphlet on the history of the church compiled by MacEachern.
Autograph letter to his son, signed, about his health and family concerns. Also discusses "A New System of Geology."
This collection consists of a single item, "The History and Folklore of the Kootenai Indians" (typescript, approximately 300 pages) by Rosa E. Causton and White Otter. Photocopies of the typescript are also included in the collection.
Deed issued to Henry D. Edwards of Spokane Falls, Washington, May 1, 1902.
Commission of Justin Millard as surgeon of the Southern Battalion of the 2nd Regiment of Washington Territory Volunteers, signed by Isaac I. Stevens, governor of Washington Territory. Includes Millard's sworn testimony and signature.
This collection consists of materials related to Frank and Irene Potter which came into the possession of Ruth Slonim, their colleague and friend, after Irene Potter's death. It includes correspondence received by Irene Potter, mostly from 1969 to 1971, a small quantity of Frank Potter's notes related to his teaching of philosophy, a few miscellaneous items, and a folder of materials about the Potters collected by Slonim.
This letter from Richard Wagner to Princess Carolyn von Sayn-Wittgenstein is accompanied by transcription and notes.
Primarily contains memoranda and correspondence related to the Washington State University Press. Includes corrected proofs, programmatic material and brochures related to University Press publications. Also contains memorabilia related to the press and ASWSU events. Items range from 1923-1990.
Primarily contains correspondence, memoranda, contract documents, and financial documents related to various projects on the WSU campus. Notable projects include the remodel of Morrill Hall, beginning sometime around 1968. Others relate to Knott Dairy Center and buildings related to the Veterinary Teaching Hospital.
Correspondence between members of the Driskell family and friends, primarily concerned with wartime experiences, 1849-1964.
Letter from John Smith Griffin to Alvin Thompson Smith, both Oregon missionaries. Address on verso.
Letter by John Cowper Powys, regarding Powys' novel "Weymouth Sands" to Reginald Addyers-Scott.
This collection consists of 3 items: (1) Stephen Aldrich notebook, 1791-circa 1840; (2) Jelleff & Hull's Patent Pocket Interest Tables, 1828; and (3) clipping from Farm and Fireside Magazine, "A Lullaby" by Evelyn Aldrich, 1907. The notebook includes Aldrich's student work in mathematics, geometry, and geography, along with "A Family Register," comprising 4 pages with records of Aldrich family births and deaths.
This collection contains professional papers of Dr. Charles Gardner Shaw (1917-1998), who served as a professor and later chairman of the Department of Plant Pathology at Washington State University from 1947 to 1983. It consists of correspondence (incoming and outgoing), research materials (notes, collected articles, reports, and drawings), photographs, and audio recordings.
This collection consists of a set of 27 black and white historiated initials (ink drawings) by Mary Ellen Cross, created for J. F. Smithcors's 1957 book, "Evolution of the Veterinary Art: A Narrative Account to 1850" (Kansas City, MO: Veterinary Medicine Publishing Co.).
This collection consists of Mechanical Engineering Lab (23, demolished 1986) records from 1930-1983. Records include air conditioning instillation, tunnel modifications, and heating systems.
Manuscripts and printed form letters of copies received by Admiral Tyler, Commander-in-Chief at the Cape of Good Hope. Some regarding the Treaty of Ghent.
Letters from W.H. Gray, Samuel Parker, and A.B. Smith concerning missionary work in the Pacific Northwest.
The papers of Edward Klostermeyer consist of materials about his teaching and research from roughly 1947-1980.
This collection contains correspondence of F. W. Buchholz concerning church politics, business activities, primarily as officer of the Yellow Jacket Gold Mining Company, Spokane, Washington, and family matters concerning litigation over lands and estates; also texts of sermons, circa 1871-1893, and clippings and photographs concerning the German Methodist Church in Washington State. In addition there are correspondence, diaries, certificates and other papers of Helena Frances Richter Spalding Buchholz and her stepdaughter Effie L. Spalding concerning social, educational and literary activities in Chicago and Waukegan, Illinois.
The collections consists of slides of and relating to Native Americans. Included are personal slides as well as commercial slides; these were apparently used both in his own research and for instruction purposes. About half of the slides are labeled with additional information, often including sources (for the reproductions) or dates.
Certificate from the U. S. General Land Office at Spokane Falls, Washington Territory, to Samuel Forney. Includes Seal.
This collection consists of a single item, a typescript (photocopy, approximately 358 pages) of an ethnography of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Lake area produced by Randy Bouchard and Dorothy I.D. Kennedy for the British Columbia Indian Language project in 1979.
This collection consists primarily of materials Warren L. Clare received from James Stevens while investigating Stevens's life and work for his Ph.D. dissertation. It includes one substantial unpublished manuscript, "The Green Glory," clippings of Stevens's newspaper columns and other writings, a small collection of correspondence from the 1920s, and a few miscellaneous items.
Primarily consists of budget reports and administrative files related to the operations of the ASWSU and its various committees. Includes committee meeting notes, use statistic reports, legislative documents between WSU and the ASWSU, and newspaper clippings.
Signed presentation on wrapper. Reprinted from Scottish Geographical Magazine, v. 54, p. 236-239, with holograph additions and editing by author, Edward L. Ullman.
This collection consists of records of the Confluence Press, a publisher located in Lewiston, Idaho.
Preliminary inventory:
MS.1984.13 (1975-1983): Box 1, Authors' manuscripts and correspondence; Box 2, Blues, manuscript; Box 3, Poetry Associations, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Financial records, Articles of incorporation; Boxes 4-5, Publication plates and negatives; Box 6, Financial records.
MS.1984.53 (1975-1983): Box 1, Operation files; Box 2, Aura typescript and miscellaneous flyers.
MS.1986.37 (1984-1986): Box 1, Miscellaneous negatives, artworks; Boxes 2-3, Miscellaneous paste-ups, blue lines.
MS.1987.24 (1984-1987): Box 1, Blue lines and layouts, Page proofs, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Correspondence; Box 2, Confluence re-assignment of copyright, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Correspondence, Financial records; Boxes 3-4, Correspondence, Miscellaneous manuscripts; Box 5, Artwork, Blue lines; Box 6, financial records.
MS.1988.28 (1986-1988): Box 1, Blue lines, Working and corrected miscellaneous manuscripts, Correspondence (1986-1987); Box 2, Blue lines, Working and corrected miscellaneous manuscripts, Photographs, Galleys; Box 3, Galleys, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Page proofs, Blue lines; Box 4, Correspondence (1987), Page proofs, Blue lines; Box 5 Reproductions, Miscellaneous manuscripts; Box 6, Book covers (art).
MS.1989.14 (1984-1986): Box 1, Book-cover art final, Miscellaneous LCSC stuff; Box 2, Poetry-literature related general files, Author files--correspondence, Manuscripts, Articles of incorporation (1980), Blue Moon Press (articles of incorporation), Sound tape; Financial records; Box 3, Leon Felipe book, Aura material; Box 4, Publicity and authors' files; Box 5, Miscellaneous manuscripts.
MS.1990.70 (1988-1990): Box 1, Withdrawn and rejected miscellaneous manuscripts; Box 2, Authors' files--correspondence, Miscellaneous manuscripts; Box 3, Promotion material, Miscellaneous manuscripts, authors' correspondence; Box 4, Miscellaneous manuscripts (mixed); Box 5, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Art for book cover, Reviews.
MS.1991.19 (1986-1990): Box 1, Authors' file--correspondence, Galleys, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Reviews; Box 2, Norman Mclean homage materials, Page proofs; Box 3, Wallace Stegner bibliography material, Miscellaneous manuscripts and illustrations; Box 4, Stegner material, Page proofs, corrected manuscript for Stegner bibliography book.
MS.1993.03 (1985-1992): Detailed preliminary inventory available from repository.
MS.1994.06 (1990-1993): Box 1, IMH (?) short fiction project; Norman Mclean manuscript, with corrected proofs; Box 2, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Miscellaneous offsets; Box 3, Correspondence, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Rosalie's stuff, American Northwest-Short Fiction Anthology material; Box 4, Creative writing awards material, poster; Miscellaneous correspondence, Miscellaneous manuscripts; Boxes 5-9 and 11-12, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Correspondence; Box 10, "Original" manuscripts, Miscellaneous manuscripts; Box 13, Page proofs, Miscellaneous.
MS.1995.20 (1976-1993): Box 1, Financial records, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Grants, Publicity; Box 2, Rejected manuscripts and queries; Box 3, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Correspondence; Box 4, Miscellaneous production files, Artwork; Boxes 5-7, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Correspondence, Blue Lines, Page proofs; Boxes 8-9, Rejected manuscripts and queries.
MS.1996.23 (1976-1995; "contains some Blue Moon stuff from Arizona"): Boxes 1-3, Miscellaneous manuscripts, Correspondence; Boxes 4-5, Inventory reports, Financial statements, General ledger; Box 6, "Historical files" (old inventories, etc.); Box 7, Blue lines, posters, Miscellaneous manuscripts; Box 8, Blue lines, Page proofs.
MS.1997.22 (1986-1996; 6 boxes): Detailed preliminary inventory available from repository.
MS.1997.31 (undated): Photograph of unidentified writer.
MS.1997.45 (1980-1997, 1 box): No preliminary inventory available.
MS.1999.09 (1985-1997, 6 boxes): Detailed preliminary inventory available from repository.
MS.2001.23 (1995-2000, 3 boxes): No preliminary inventory available.
MS.2003.10 (1990-2002, 7 boxes): Detailed preliminary inventory available from repository.
MS.2003.11 (1985-2003, 10 boxes): No preliminary inventory available.
MS.2003.13 (1997-2003, 6 boxes plus oversize): No preliminary inventory available.
MS.2005.03 (2005, 1 box): No preliminary inventory available.
MS.2010.10 (1988-2003, 1 box): No preliminary inventory available.
This collection consists of correspondence and financial papers of Addison Copper Company and Pacific Mutual Silver Lead Company; engineers' reports on various mines; lists of prospective investors in mining stocks in eastern Washington; and financial newsletters, 1928 June-1929 September.
Correspondence, including letters to Mr. Bowker, Mr. Valentine Smith, and an unnamed friend. Also an unidentified contemporary manuscript copy of Thackeray's "Ballad of 'Little Billee, '" annotated page proofs of "A Dissertation from a Tea-Table," and an untitled holograph poem.
Bank statements and newspaper clippings in a scrapbook based in the Spokane area of Washington state, 1914-1924.
The bulk of the collection is made up of correspondence files which is divided into 2 series, Correspondence Files (Series 1) and Alphabetical Correspondence (Series 3). The remaining series cover subjects such as: his Art Collection (Series 2); Articles and Speeches (Series 4); Commencement Files (Series 5); European Trip (Series 6); Family and Personal (Series 7); Graduate Study (Series 8); Memoranda to Faculty (Series 9); Notes and Notebooks (Series 10); Reference Materials (Series 11); Scrapbooks and Clippings (Series 12); University of Washington Controversy (Series 13); Washington State College Appointment (Series 14); and Awards, Diplomas, Honors (Series 15).
The records employ the filing notations that were used by the President's office staff. In some cases organizations are referred to by familiar names, especially in the case of institutions of higher education. People are often identified with some type of title, such as "regent".
This collection consists of personal and professional papers of Sigmond and Lena Slonim which were kept by their daughter, Ruth Slonim, and donated to the Washington State University Libraries along with her own papers after her death.
Most of the materials are related to Sigmond Slonim. The personal correspondence includes incoming cards and letters, mainly from friends and family members. The professional correspondence includes both incoming and outgoing items, mostly related to Sigmond Slonim's law practice and political activism. The collection also includes other materials related to his political interests and activities, his law practice (two conscientious objector case files), and family finances. The "Sigmond Slonim writings" sequence consists primarily of autobiographical sketches and essays. Slonim described his early life and his family's experiences in Lithuania, including observations about political and social conditions for Jews in Russia, his travels through Europe prior to emigrating to the United States, and his life and involvement in progressive political causes after settling in Duluth, MN.
The collection consists of audio recordings of 1989 oral history interviews conducted with Philip and Neva Abelson by Linda Lilles, along with supporting documentation.
This collection includes yearbooks, clippings, photographs and other materials of and about the Wednesday Club, a women's literary society at Spokane, Washington.
Genealogical notes re: Davis family of Steptoe Butte, Washington, transcripts of a James Cashup Davis letter, 1873, and of a letter, 1877, of Mary Ann Davis regarding the Nez Percé War.
Includes letters received from England, clippings of the article "Duvall Immigrant" on the Taylor family's emigration from England, and other clippings and photographs of Duvall, Washington.
1994 Washington State University Commencement address given by Washington State Senator Patty Murray. Text that was delivered exhibits handwritten revisions. Includes typescript copies of address and photocopies of news releases and newspaper clippings. Includes provenance documents.
Includes handwritten note: "Address given at Vespers, Armistice Day, State College of Washington, November, 1933," and handwritten corrections by the author.
Correspondence with G.H. Plummer of the Northern Pacific Railway Company and A.J. Splawn concerning the cattle trade in Eastern Washington; used by Cotton in his Masters of Science thesis.
Typescript of an address by Harry E. Goldsworthy about the State College of Washington, 1900-1910.
Primarily event planning material and program brochures related to the opening of the WSU Veterinary Teaching Hospital in 1993. Also contains speeches given by a number of staff, faculty, and donors.
Rolled drawings, primarily from renovations to WSU campus buildings.
The records cover roughly the years 1960-1982, with some material both before and after these dates. All the sections are not complete--there are many gaps. Included are correspondence, eligibility petitions, letters of intent, meeting minutes, financial information, and booklets.
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(only 2 agendas for 1965,(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
(includes agendas)
Signed holograph, with postscript by Sade Long, chiefly regarding farming in Oregon.
This collection consists of historical studies written by Jean Carol Davis, as well as a Truax family history compiled by Davis and Truax family photographs. The papers written by Davis cover regional history of the Johnson, WA area, an area settled by the Truax family. Davis compiled the Truax family history from extensive research notes taken by her mother, Gladys Truax Davis. It covers a period from approximately the 1830s to the 1960s. The Truax family photographs date from 1868 to 1949. They were received with descriptive notes by Davis written on separate slips, and these were transcribed onto the verso of the photographs during processing.
This collection consists of a single item, "Joe's Dope" Chapter 5, by Joe Smith (photocopy), reproduced from a document in the Joe Smith Papers at the University of Washington.
The papers consist of correspondence, memoranda, notes, reports, drafts, conference materials, copies of printed material, forms, booklets, and newsletters. The papers date from 1933 to 1975 with the bulk of the material dating from 1950 to 1970. Ann Wierum, Chief of the Humanities Library after Miss Krueger retired, added to the original collection.
Major subjects in the collection are Circulation, Faculty Library Advisory Committee, Humanities Library, Inter-Library Loan, Washington State University Library Administrative Notices, Library Administrative Council, Job Descriptions, and Technical Service Division. The papers concern the development of library practices and were originally arranged as a reference file.
The collection consists of stereoscopic cards and one viewer. While the images are mostly tourist in nature and cover much of the world, the images published by the Kinsey Photograph Studio (of Sedro-Woolley, WA) are all of Washington state's North Cascades.
1979 program of the Community Prayer Breakfast, Pullman, Washington, signed by the speaker Eldridge Cleaver.
Collection consists of photographic prints (some oversize) of actress/singer, Edith Newlin, her family and friends, and theatrical productions, including the Pullman Auditorium, circa 1890 - 1930.
This collection consists of a single item: a carved wood scrapbook recording the history of the Mountain Home School in Latah County, Idaho, 1892-1940. According to information included in the scrapbook, "This school is located 15 miles East of Garfield, Wash. and 8 miles north of Potlatch, Idaho in Latah County Idaho." The scrapbook includes photographs, newspaper clippings, manuscript and typewritten notes, chronologies, and lists of pupils and teachers. The materials were assembled by Hattie M. Swofford, a former teacher at Mountain Home School in circa 1940. The scrapbook is enclosed in a carved wood cover depicting the school building.
This collection consists of a single document, a 1970 prospectus including financial data, organizational, facilities, and equipment information.
Box 1 contains contracts related to various safety improvements such as sprinkler systems in residence halls, improvements to Stephenson North. Box 2 contains contracts and correspondence related to miscellaneous repairs such as a walk-in freezer and improvements of septic tanks. Box 3 contains contracts related to the WSU Power Plant, water reservoirs, and asbestos removal within the Beasley Performing Arts College. Box 4 contians contracts related to the expansion of campus, as well as various Agricultural college services.
Undated railroad survey field notes; notebooks numbered 9 and 16. Book 9 labeled "Farmington-Princeton RR"; Book 16 labeled "Farmington-Leland RR." Surveyor not identified.
This collection consists of S. Judson Crandell's lecture outlines and notes for teaching college speech and communication classes at Washington State University.
Records of knitting classes sponsored by women's clubs to make clothing for soldiers, circa 1917.
Report produced by the Labor Study Committee of the Northwest Electric Light and Power Association (NELPA), compiling data from a questionnaire "covering wages, working conditions and the general labor situation in Association territory." Mimeographed typescript.
This collection consists of: ledgers, account books and other papers related to farming in Colton, Whitman County, Washington.
Journal, veterinary recipe book and letter (1850-1858) from George H. Dadd about the price of veterinary textbooks and entering veterinary practice.
This collection contains music recordings from the Jim Morris estate. The collection primarily consists of recordings of Nez Perce music, but also contains recorded music connected to the Crow Nation, and miscellaneous reproductions of popular music. The recordings are in two audio tape formats: reel-to-reel (18 items) and 8-track (5 items). Digital copies of the recordings are included in the collection, on compact disc.
An inventory list is available for the items in this collection.
The project-specific records of BOAS, Inc., from 1982 until 2010 dominate the collection. Records before 1982 consist of projects conducted by Dr. Astrida Blukis Onat either as a faculty member at Seattle Community College or a private-sector archaeologist. All project locations are in Washington State unless otherwise noted. Included are project proposals and reports prepared for federal, state, and local governmental agencies, corporations, and private individuals as well as materials associated with those projects such as correspondence, field notes, photographs and other media, graphics and maps, and a few artifacts (e.g., lithics). The donor wrote a history of the company (Blukis Onat, "BOAS History") and provided some promotional materials housed in the "Processing and Collection Documentation" files.
This collection of miscellaneous manuscript leaves on parchment and vellum dating from the twelfth to the sixteenth centuries has usefulness as examples of scripts, texts, writing surfaces, inks, decorations and illustrations. The leaves come from a variety of religious texts, including Books of Hours, Missals and Graduals. All are in Latin save for two which seem to be medieval Dutch and one in medieval French.
Breviary (fragment), in Latin
France, saec. XIIImed
1v-2r: //In illo t[empor]e erat S[ancti] Johan[nis] ... conservis suis minora peccantibus. Si//
Folio 1v begins with the sixth reading for the 17th Sunday after Pentecost, followed by the first five readings for the following week. Folio 2r continues the fifth reading and runs through the eighth reading of the 18th Sunday after Pentecost, ending with the first word of the ninth reading.
The order of the readings is noted in red roman numerals in the outer margin by a contemporary hand. A slightly later hand has indicated through the use of black Roman numerals that during a later period these were the 21st and 22nd Sundays after Pentecost.
Parchment, two leaves (conjoint and consecutive), in two columns of 31 lines, prickings preserved in the inner margin. Written in a gothic texutra script by a single scribe. Initials alternate blue with red penwork and red with blue penwork, one or two-lines (with the exception of the letters [L] or [I] which extend down the margin three- to six-lines); rubrics red.
Written in France in the mid-thirteenth century. This bifolium was the innermost bifolium of its quire, and was folded backwards to be used as a wrapper binding in the late middle ages. The title of the manuscript that it bound is written in the upper margin of f. 2r: it appears to read "Donatio tertia maculosi", which could indicate an accounting of donations made by sinners to the local church to secure their salvation. A nineteenth-century hand has written in pencil in the lower margin of f. 2r the price of "100 fr." and the date "Debut XIIIe s.", although the style of script suggests a slightly later date.
[note: the cataloguer, Lisa Fagin Davis, has only examined a digitized image of the verso of the bifolium, that is, folios 1v and 2r]
Book of Hours (fragment), in Latin
Germany, saec. XIIIex/XIVin
F. 1: //gloria mea et non conpungar ... meus est in manibus//
Psalm 29:13 "gloria" - end; antiphons "Adorate dominum in aula" and "In tua justi[tia]"; Psalm 30:1 - 16 "manibus". The original antiphons have been scraped away and replaced by a later hand (with the exception of the word "patri" on the recto, line 3, which is original). The red roman numeral "viii" before and after the second antiphon may indicate that the following Psalm is the eighth Psalm of Matins for that day.
Parchment, single leaf, in a single column of 19 lines. Written in a gothic texutra script by a single scribe. Psalm initial blue with red penwork; versal initials alternating red and blue.
Written in France in the late-thirteenth or early-fourteenth century. A nineteenth-century hand has written in pencil in the lower margin of the recto "XII siecle", although the style of script suggests a slightly later date.
[note: the cataloguer, Lisa Fagin Davis, has only examined a digitized image of the fragment]
Gradual. Probably 13th-14th c. In Latin. Gothic script with three decorated initials; 4-line staff with square notation. Leaf torn and damaged in spots. 34x49 cm.
Book of Hours (fragment), in Dutch
Northern Netherlands, probably in the western, Holland-Utrecht zone, saec. XVex
F. 1: //[Je]rusalem alle die dage ... moeder gods marien huechnisse doen ou//
From a Book of Hours, Sext of the Hours of the Virgin: the last part of ‘Die IX salm van den XV graden’, with antiphon and chapter, respons, and the beginning of a verse [on 4_1, the recto] and the continuation of the verse, a versicle, and collect [on 4_2, the verso]. See N. van Wijk (ed.), Het getijdenboek van Geert Grote naar het Haagse handschrift 133 E 21. Leiden 1940, pp. 56-58.
Parchment, single leaf, in a single column of 17 lines. Written in a Gothic script by a single scribe. Two-line Chapter and Collect initials in blue, other initials single line in red or black stroked with red; rubrics red.
Written in Flanders in the late 15th century.
[note: the cataloguer, Lisa Fagin Davis, has only examined a digitized image of the fragment. This description was updated in 2015 based on information provided by Ed van der Vlist.]
Psalter (fragment), in Latin
France, saec. XVmed
F. 1: //Funes cediderunt mihi in praeclaris ... ut non moveantur ves[tigia]//
Psalm 15:6 - 16:5 "ves[tigia]", from a Psalter.
Parchment, single leaf, in a single column of 16 lines ruled with red plummet. Written in a Gothic script by a single scribe. Three-line psalm initial gilt on blue background with white penwork, the body of the letter filled with salmon, with gold and salmon bars extending into the outer margin decorated with blue at the base; verse initials alternating gold with blue penwork and blue with red penwork; red and blue linefillers.
Written in Flanders in the late 15th century. A late-medieval hand has written the (incorrect) Psalm number "XVI" on the recto. A modern purple ownership stamp on the recto gives the monogram "ABV".
[note: the cataloguer, Lisa Fagin Davis, has only examined a digitized image of the fragment]
Noted missal, in Latin.
France?, saec. XIII
...[iracun]dis ab insurgentibus in me exaltabis me...Et aperiantur saccis homines.
Fifth Sunday of Quadragesima (i.e. Passion Sunday) and the following Monday. Recto: gradual "Eripe me domine" (conclusion only), tract and lection for Sunday; Verso: introit ("Miserere"?) (conclusion only), oratio, and lection for Monday (Jonah 3:1-8).
Parchment, 1 folio, one (the inner) of two columns, 31 lines (per page of text) or 16 lines (per page of music). Written in a Gothic script by a single scribe. Music on a four-line staff with [f] and [c] indicated. Two- or three-line initials in red or blue.
Probably written in France the thirteenth century.
Book of Hours. Arnhem, circa 1460-1480. In Dutch. Gothic script with decorated initial on recto. 9.5x13 cm.
From the Office of the Dead: the end of a versicle, and the beginning of the first lesson (from Job), taken from the first nocturn [on 7_1, the recto] and the continuation of the first lesson, with response, verse, and the beginning of the second lesson (also from Job) [on 7_2, the verso]. See Van Wijk 1940, pp. 169-170].
[Note: This description was updated in 2015 based on information provided by Ed van der Vlist.]
Book of Hours, in Latin.
Italy, saec. XV
...videns civentatum crucis tensum patibulo...sustinente quod modicum...
From the first nocturn of Matins (use undetermined).
Parchment, 1 leaf, single column of 15 lines, ruled in blue. Written in a Gothic rotunda script by a single scribe. Two-line gold leaf initial with blue infill and background, with blue filigree in the inner, upper, and lower margins. Single-line gold leaf initials alternating with blue or yellow intials throughout. Line-filler gold leaf with blue filigree.
Written in Italy in the fifteenth century. A modern purple ownership stamp on the recto gives the monogram "ABV" (see also Fragment 5 verso).
Missal. Probably 14th-15th c. In Latin. Carolingian script with two decorated initials; one line each side of the 5-line staff with square notation. Section from the Office of the Dead. 35x54 cm.
Book of Hours, in Latin.
France, saec. XV
f.1:...peccatoribus vitam et leticiam sempiternam... eius lancea miles perforavit...; f.2: ...tua corripias me...me adpropinquaverunt et...(Psalm 37:2-12).
Hours of the Cross; final oratio of Matins followed by the Little Hours and Compline. The folios are conjoint, but not consecutive (Vespers and the beginning of Compline are lacking). They were probably separated by one bifolium.
Parchment, bifolium, single column of 13 lines. Written in a Gothic cursive script by a single scribe. One- or two-line initials in gold leaf on background of blue or red filigree.
Written in France in the fifteenth century.
[Antiphonary], in Latin.
Italy, saec. XVI
...[Cum perveni]sset beatus andreas ad locus.../...Suscipe discipulum eius qui pe...
Preserves part of Matins for the office of St. Andrew (Responsories "Cum pervenisset beatus andreas" and "Doctor bonus et amicus").
Parchment, 1 folio, single column, 8 lines. Written in a rotunda script by a single scribe. Square notation on a red 5-line staff, C on line 4. Responsories begin with staff-high red initial, verses with black, rubrics red.
Written in Italy in saec. XVI.
[Antiphonary], in Latin.
Spain, saec. XVI
In comone angelorum.../...neque locus est corum in...
Preserves the beginning of the office for the "Common of Angels".
Parchment, 1 folio, recto mostly blank with only a 2-line rubric at lower margin, 3 lines music and 9 lines text on verso. Written in a rotunda script by a single scribe. Square notation on a red 5-line staff, [C] at middle line. Staff-high antiphon initial blue and red with red and blue filigree, two-line initial blue with red filigree, rubrics red. Initials in-text stroked yellow.
Written in Spain in saec. XVI.
[Antiphonary?], in Latin.
Spain?, saec. XVI
...homo factus id quo fuit.../...exultemus dicentes gloria tibi domine MGT saeculorum.
Probably from the office of the Annunciation.
Parchment, 1 folio, single column, 6 lines (3 on verso). Written in a rotunda script by a single scribe. Square notation on a red 5-line staff, bars added later, C at middle line.
Written in Spain? in saec. XVI.
Gradual or Antiphonal. Probably 14th-15th c. In Latin. Gothic script with six decorated initials; 5-line staff with later notation. 38x56.5 cm.
Antiphonary, in Latin.
Germany, saec. XV
[rubric] In festo dicem milium militum.../[text] Occurre in t[ ]nudio...A[ntiphona]. O Celebre martirium...
Preserves Matins of the Office of the Ten Thousand Soldiers (22 June).
Parchment, 1 folio. Single column of 10 lines. Written in a Gothic script by a single scribe. Five-line staff with [c] and [f] indicated. Staff-high initials blue, red, or black and red.
Written in Germany in the fifteenth century. When used as a binding (saec. XVII?), item was numbered "1137". The (faded) title of the bound manuscript is written in the upper margin of the verso.
Antiphonary, in Latin
Austria (?), saec. XV
...et aviditate in illa eterna....in seculum non debitur. evovae.
Preserves Matins of the commons office for a "Confessor who was not a Pope". The antiphons found here (CAO 4952, 3542, and 1851) are rare, and the office is quite similar to that for a "Confessor who was not a bishop" found in Vorau (Austria) Universitats-Bibliothek ms 287.
Paper, fragment of one folio, one column, 5 lines. Written in a Gothic script by a single scribe. Music on a four-line staff with [f] and [c] indicated. Staff-high initials in green or black and red. Unfinished two-staff-high initial [S] on recto.
Written Austria or Germany in the fifteenth century.
Book of Hours [Office of the Dead], in Latin.
France, saec. XVmed
...singulos dies ubi est deus tuus...Spiritus meus attenuabitur dies mei breviabuntur et so[lum]...
From the third nocturn of the Office of the Dead, including the seventh lection (Job 17).
Parchment, 1 leaf, one column of 17 lines, ruled in red plummet. Written in a Gothic script by a single scribe. Three-line lection initial in blue with white filigree, on a red, gold, and white background in a gold-leaf frame, three 1-line gold-leaf initials on red or blue background with blue or red infill, three-quarter border of gold leaves, red berries, red and blue flowers. Line filler of blue, red, and gold-leaf.
Written in France in the mid-fifteenth century.
Missal, in Latin.
France, saec. XVex
...[pecca]ta mundi misserere [sic] nobis...Spiritu sancto vivis et regnas...
Part of the Mass from the Agnus Dei through the prayer for peace preceding the communion ritual.
Parchment, 1 folio, single column of 14 lines, ruled in red plummet. Written in a Gothic script by a single scribe. Two-line gilt initial with red infill on blue background, with gold ivywork extending slightly into margin., 1-line initials alternating blue with red penwork or red with blue, or: gilt with red infill on a blue background or gilt with blue infill on a red background. Line-fillers blue and red with gilt bars.
Written in France in the late fifteenth century.
Missal. 1440 AD. In Latin. Italian gothic script with three decorated initials. Mounted, with verso on outside. Vellum. 16x21.5 cm. Gift of Helen G. Smith.
[Missal or Gradual], in Latin.
Spain?, saec. XVI
[Offertorium?] Quam dulcia sunt eloquia tua virgo dei.../...Com[munionem]. Factum est autem et audi...
Preserves the offertory and communion for an unidentified, presumably female, saint.
Parchment, 1 folio, six lines, one column. Written in a rotunda script by a single scribe. Square notation on 5-line red staff, [C] at middle line. Staff-high initials in red with blue filigree or vice versa.
Written in Spain? in saec. XVI.
[Gradual], in Latin.
Italy, saec. XV/XVI
...[do]minum. Saeculorum. Kyrie.../...Alleluia alleluia alleluia alleluia...
Mass for Holy Saturday and Vespers of Easter vigil, from the Kyrie of the mass through the Vespers antiphon "Vespere autem".
Parchment, 1 folio, single column, 8 lines. Written in a rotunda script by a single scribe. Square- notation on a red five-line staff, [c] at middle line. Staff-high initial in red with purple filigree., half-staff or single-line initials in black.
Written in Italy in saec. XV/XVI.
[Gradual], in Latin.
Spain, saec. XVI
...[reve]reantur inimici mei.../...Graduale. Benedicam dominum in omni tem[pore]...
Preserves the Introit ("Deus in adiutorium meum") and Gradual ("Benedicam dominim in omni tempore") for the 12th Sunday after Pentecost.
Parchment, 1 folio, one column, six lines. Written in a rotunda script by a single scribe. Square notation on a red 5-line staff, [C] at middle line. Staff-high intial in red with blue filigree, minor initials staff-high black, rubrics red.
Written in Spain in saec. XVI.
[Gradual], in Latin.
Includes Haec dies, v. Lapidem quem reprobaverunt.
Parchment, 1 folio, single column, written in a rotunda script. Square notation on a red 4-line staff. 27 x 38 cm.
Probably written 13-14th c.
This collection consists of scrapbooks containing records of the Spokane Holstein Club, from 1968 to 1974 and 1976 to 1987. The scrapbooks include photographs, event programs, newspaper and magazine articles, meeting minutes, copies of their newsletter "The Dairy Reporter" and the "Dairy News," greeting cards, correspondence, and copies of various business records including the "Plan of Consolidation" with the Inland Empire Dairy Herd Improvement Association, by-laws, and communications with the Washington State Cooperative Extension Office, as well as club memorabilia.
This collection consists of a single item, an untitled paper (typescript) on early telephone service in Washington State, described on the first page as: "Paper read on February 22, 1962, by L. K. Wiese, retired Pacific Northwest Bell employee, as part of the Northwest History Lecture Series of the Puget Sound Council for the Social Sciences in conjunction with the Seattle Historical Society and the Seattle Museum of History and Industry."
This collection consists of samples of the printing processes and work of the Ye Galleon Press, including correspondence, research notes, drafts, and other papers regarding the reprinting of Pacific Northwest Americana by Ye Galleon Press.
Primarily consists of promotional event posters and brochures, as well as correspondence and financial reports related to each event. Includes scrapbooks highlighting events on campus put on by the ASWSU, as well as the Political Student Union.
1959 letter concerning founding of Neill Public Library, Pullman, Washington.
Chiefly letters from Waldo E. Austin to David Johnson. Also includes personal and official documents.
Advertisement for Kinnear's general store at Sprague, Washington Territory, circa 1883.
Faculty and committee meeting notes from 1947-2001, reconfiguration reports related to the reduction of the English department starting in 1990.
This collection consists of papers of Washington State University faculty member Joanne Washburn. It includes a Title IX report, women's physical education program information and event documentation, women's intercollegiate athletics materials, news articles and court reports, meeting notes and minutes, correspondence, sports photographs, and a small quantity of collected materials.
Preliminary inventory:
Box 1: Title IX report; women's intercollegiate athletics handbooks; women's athletic directories (1974-1982); health and PE resources; controversies in sports (in binder); memos and meeting information (in binder).
Box 2: Virginia Shaw material including certificates, notebooks and photographs; Women's Recreation Association budget; Department of Physical Education items; American Physiotherapy Association members list (1940).
Box 3: Individual sports schedules, costs and memos; Northern California Athletic Conference and NorPac affiliation handbook, budgets, evaluations, newsletters and meeting documents.
Box 4: Women's Day 1920s-1940s; Sports photographs; history of PE; Chinook photographs; buildings and grounds; Athletic Federation of College Women (1928-1954); miscellaneous correspondence and brochures.
Box 5: Budgets, budget reduction plan, and budget requests (1963-1985); business correspondence on merger considerations and "potpourri"; student services and activities fee applications.
Box 6: Gymnasium blueprints; newspaper clippings; PE program; health education; recreation; Physical education class materials along with some "teaching and report" documents--mainly arranged alphabetically by class.
Box 7: Questionnaires; Washburn correspondence with Attorney General and others; surveys; lawsuits and agreements; settlements; campaigns; OCR material; minor capital improvement abilities (MCI); major and minor capital project requests (CAPS); Title IX comments (1978-1979); budget material.
Box 8: Sport management; Title IX; "potpourri"; propaganda; catalog changes; time schedule; coordinator.
Box 9: Miscellaneous: women's PE newsletters; some Title IX documents; budget information; clubs; notes; Intercollegiate Committee (I.C.) minutes; controversies in sports.
Box 10: Some Title IX material; articles; urban development; housing and dining; coaching documents; Women's athletics documents; NCAA material; sports information; general correspondence.
Box 11: News articles; court and general reports; scholarships; historical documents, clippings, and brochures; athletics and sport management, some Title IX (Blair lawsuit and clippings); scholarly and professional activities correspondence.
The Si Williams Agricultural Papers consist of catalogs, brochures and other materials focused on agriculture and livestock in the Pacific Northwest, predominantly as it relates to sales and marketing. It also includes a binder with thirty years of Mr. Williams’ field and daily notes and folders containing the history of the Williams family in the Pacific Northwest.
This small collection is primarily comprised of letters addressed to Washington State University’s Board of Regents from alumni and community members alarmed by the unrest. Other items in the collection include a list of student demands and Glenn Terrell’s response, printed materials by the Ad Hoc Committee Against Racism, and the transcription of a speech about student unrest by the Reverend of the Pullman Presbyterian Church. The collection is broken into three short series: letters from the public, institutional letters, and public essays.
Primarily consists of drawings, administrative files, and contracts related to construction on the Martin Stadium Tunnel and the Intercollegiate Nursing Center (also known as ICNE) from 1985-2010.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
Contains primarily correspondence and memoranda to and from the Vice Provost for Instruction in relation to the many departments and programs on campus. Files range from 1987-1993.
William C. Cusick’s extant papers consist primarily of his field books, which doubled as the catalog for the second herbarium, and the draft list of the floral surveys he conducted, circa 1900-1910. A few surviving items of correspondence with C. V. Piper, and a biographical sketch of Cusick by W. W. Eggleston are also included.
These letters were addressed from Alice Hegan Rice in Louisville, Kentucky, to E.O. Holland in Pullman, Washington. They are dated August 17, 1935, and September 28, 1935. Included here are two booklets on Cole Young Rice and Alice Hegan Rice.
Letters from Ezra Strong to Solomon Strong, apparently in Oregon. Some items relative to the Mormon migration to the west.
Contains mostly meeting minutes and correspondence, along with the constitution and by-laws of the Independent Board of Representatives (IBR) from about 1951-1962). Also contains budget reports and executive communication.
This collection consists of a sealed packet of materials related to the Washington State Centennial Time Capsule, and a file of accompanying documentation. The packet is one of 12 copies created, sealed and placed with cultural heritage repositories in Washington State. The original materials were placed in the custody of the Washington State Archivist.
Typed transcripts of correspondence between Mollie Clark and Leslie Lilly between 1891 and 1893, chiefly from Pullman, Wash. and Alsea, Or.
This collection consists of Professor Rexford F. Daubenmire's field records of vegetation and soil in eastern Washington and northern Idaho, collected 1936-1970, and summarized in Washington State University Experiment Station Technical Bulletins 60 (December 1968) and 62 (February 1970). The reports analyze the Steppe Stands and the Forest Stands, and are a collection of typed and handwritten records.
Autographed portrait and program of Alfred Cortot's concert, pasted into Chopin's Preludes, published by Schirmer's Library.
The papers of Elwood Kalin consist of notes, memoranda, correspondence, and various working papers.
Accounts, notes, mathematical problems, and diary entries from frontier Iowa, 1848-1853.
The collection consists of a single page two-sided letter, from F.C. Spearin to an unidentified nephew. The letter discusses the nephew’s move to active service during World War I, and the service of F.C.’s son Willard. The letter was found folded behind a mounted photograph (also included here) of a woman identified there as Myrtle Boyer of Spirit Lake, Idaho.
Also included are photocopies of resources used in identifying the various parties involved with the original documents.
This collection contains five scrapbooks from the World War II period, created by members of VFW Post 3469 of Colfax, Washington. Two of the scrapbooks consist of newspaper clippings about events in the Pacific Theater and stories of service men and women, including some from eastern Washington and northern Idaho. The three other scrapbooks pertain to the European and North African Theaters.
The collection consists of two types of materials, Chalcraft-Pickering family portraits and glass lantern slides of the Chemawa Indian Training School near Salem, Oregon.
There are 105 family portraits of various sizes, including oversize, depicting Edwin L. Chalcraft, his wife, Alice Fawcett (Pickering) Chalcraft, their children, Edwin Pickering Chalcraft and Alice Pickering Chalcraft, as well as sundry relatives. Included is a portrait of William Pickering, Governor of Washington Territory from 1862-1866, and grandfather of Alice Fawcett Chalcraft. At the end of the series is seven negatives and an identification folder.
The more substantial and historically significant part of the collection consists of 166 glass lantern slides, assumed to be the work of Edwin L. Chalcraft. The slides were taken at Chemawa, the Indian Training School near Salem, Oregon while Chalcraft was superintendent in 1894-1895, and again in 1904-1911. Included are classroom scenes, sports, music, and work activities of the students, and scenes from a Chatauqua held at Oregon City, Oregon. Along the glass slide bindings are descriptive notes by Chalcraft and the students.
The collections consists of six day journals detailing instances of medical care at the WSU medical facility. The six volumes cover Dec. 1928 - Jan. 1930, Sept. 1931 - Jun. 1932, Sept. 1932 - Jun. 1933, Nov. 1935 - Apr. 1936, May 1941 - Dec. 1941, and Dec. 1947 - Mar. 1960. There are additional loose materials, dating from 1916, 1932-1933, and undated, all sitting in the front of the first volume.
This collection consists of: newspaper clippings, photographs, publications, refugee passports and other papers, including a volume of commemorative letters (1970), of a proponent of agricultural cooperatives.
18 10"x14" labeled prints of steamboats and scenes in Lewiston area. Includes boiler explosions, and troops bound for Spanish-American War. Taken (or at least printed) by the Wilkin Photo Service Lewiston, Idaho, between 1890 and 1922, the photographs document the fleet of steamboats that early in the century serviced the Snake River around Lewiston, Idaho.
The records consist of correspondence, memoranda, reports and attached materials of the State College of Washington (later Washington State University) Office of the President during the C. Clement French administration.
Personal letter to Miss Mary Hazard. Stevens discusses her activities during the absence from Olympia of her husband, Isaac Stevens (Governor of Washington Territory), on an extended eastern trip.
The collection consists of just 14 black and white photographs of the Washington State University (then Washington State College) chapter of the Pi Beta Phi sorority, collected by Sue Glenn Richey during 1954-1958, while she was a member of that sorority. The photographs are split fairly evenly between professionally photographed group images, and more informal personal photos.
This collection consists of photographs of Thomas S. Foley, including personal family and political photographs, including campaign photographs and related material, as part of his Congressional Papers. Many include his wife, Heather Foley, as well as notable political figures, including Presidents and Foreign Dignitaries. Unless otherwise indicated Thomas S. Foley appears in every photograph in the collection. Individuals appearing in the photographs have been identified if possible.
The Wildey "Bud" Kimball collection consists primarily of aerial photographs, in varying formats, taken by Kimball between 1959 and 1980. While the majority of the photographs are from western Washington state, also included are photographs from a 1966 California/Nevada/Arizona trip and images of Alaskan glaciers from two separate trips in 1972 and 1978.
Of particular note are Kimball's detailed aerial color photographs of Mt. St. Helens before and after the May 18, 1980 eruption. Included is a series taken on May 17th, 1980, approximately 18 hours before the eruption. Kimball's Mt. St. Helens photographs can be found in slide form (series 3), as 24"x24" color transparencies (series 4), as microfiche (series 9), and as a roll of original negative film (series 12: box 17, item 233). Small quantities of St. Helens images can be found in several other series as well.
Where possible, the collection has been left in its original order ascribed to it by its creator. The majority of the collection is sorted by size and type of materials, and then sorted chronologically within those series. For materials where no discernible organization existed, items were generally again sorted by type and then either chronologically or by subject within each category.
Negatives, and prints without negatives interfiled chronologically. Very few negatives with prints but many contact prints from negatives missing in sequence. Identifications taken from negative envelopes.
(print incl.)
(print incl.)
(print)
Purchased slide set, not Kimball.
Each fiche contains a listing of what is on the fiche, followed by 70 images. Selected 5"x4 1/4" color aerial transparencies are present for fiches 04-07.
Also 2 color separations for newspaper printing
4/1/1966 2 Tacoma Mall; 4/1/1966 9 Tacoma Mall; 9/2/1968 32 Brown's Point; 9/2/1968 44 Port of Tacoma; 5 feet of unnumbered negatives including Cascade Mountains, Snoqualmie Pass, Tacoma, tanker ship at dock; 5/17/1968 1 Residential' 5/17/1968 2 Port of Tacoma; 5 feet of unnumbered negatives of industrial areas. Tacoma Tideflats (?) Weyerhaeuser (?); 7/30/1968 90,95 Gig Harbor; 7/30/1968 86,89 Point Defiance, North Tacoma; 7/30/1968 81,83 Tacoma Narrows Bridge, North Tacoma; 3/11/1969 134,158 Downtown Tacoma; 10 feet of unnumbered negatives of Tacoma Narrows Bridge and vicinity
5 feet of a small lake; 15 feet of large river valley ; 20 feet of unidentified forest and water; 7 feet of unidentified lake; 10 feet of Puget Sound beach (?)
5/1/1968 1-3 Mountains; 4 Bridge construction; 5 WSU campus; 8 Mountains
12/1/1967 1-79 Mt. Rainier; 7/17/1968 1-4 unidentified Olympia Brewery; 7,8,12-15,18 Public access to lake behind Cowlitz Dam; 20-22,24-26 Highway and bridge near dam; 36,38,39,41,42,44,45 Fish hatchery near dam; 29-32 Cowlitz Dam; 47-49 Residential; 52 Trailer court
3/10/1969 1-44 Gig Harbor and vicinity; 9/2/1968 1-31 Unidentified residential area on sound or lake
4/2/1966 1-13 Tacoma
12/16/1967 1-28 Tacoma Mall
2/16/1967 1-6,8,9,11-14,16-19,21,23,26-40,42-46,48-71 Tacoma; 10 feet Tacoma; 6 feet Port of Tacoma
7/27/1968 1-5 Unidentified; 15-18 Cowlitz Lake; 24-35 unidentified community; 7/30/1968 18-31 Tacoma-Westgate; 32-36 Port of Tacoma; 39-45 Brown's; 46-54,56-77 Port of Tacoma
3/11/1969 162-166 Port of Tacoma
7/30/1968 96-101 Oswald Airport, Tacoma
3/11/1969 100-106 Bremerton; 108-109 Unidentified marina; 111-119 Bremerton; 120,122-123,125-129 Gig Harbor and vicinity; 130-133 Bremerton
Includes Puyallup Fairgrounds, City of Tacoma waterway, Whey. airport.
18 feet Tacoma; 5 feet Tacoma waterway; 20 feet unidentified; 7 feet Chambers Creek, Tacoma (print in container 5, Tacoma); 22 feet Roy, Washington
8 feet Tacoma(?); 18 feet Chambers Creek and vicinity; 1 foot Logged area; 1 foot Puyallup Fairgrounds; 16 feet Tacoma waterfront and downtown; 5 feet Gig Harbor;
9 feet Unidentified; 5 feet Airport; 4 feet Goodyear Blimp; 4 feet Centralia-Chehalis Airport; 5 feet Goodyear blimp; 6 feet Unidentified; 14 feet Steilacoom (6/23/1974); Also included (according to list on roll) but not confirmed: Jump airport, Casper; Blakley Island (7/20/1974); Muckleshoot (5/21/1974-7/24/1974); Weyerhaeuser airport; Infrared aerials Steilacoom (5/12/1974)
Makah Indian Reservation rejects; Tatoosh Island
According to list on roll this includes: Miscellaneous (1972-1973); Rejects from Tacoma Public Utility Port Orchard Airport; Gig Harbor verticals; Log booms; Bill and Dots; Misc. Steilacoom; Thunderbird; Charles Roger School; 19th and Bridgeport, Tacoma; Point Defiance Park; Yacht Club; Smelter; Downtown Tacoma; Island; Olympia Port and Capitol; Olympia Brewery; Cowlitz Dam; Fisheries; Bridges; Hoskins; Panorama City; Steilacoom
List on roll: SeaTac; Doug's home; Chehalis Airport; Olympia Airport; Golf courses; Panarama City; Steilacoom verticals; Western State Hospital; Evergreen Airport; Marine View Drive; Orange Tide; Rocky Point; Lakes near home; Day Island; Narrows Bridge; Purdy; Marine View Drive- tide in; Concrete Tech; Smelter; Cox (7/2/1973); Herron Island; Fish pen- Squaxin Island; Olympia Red Tide; Cox; Marine View Drive- tide out; City of Steilacoom; Belfair; Gig Harbor; Port of Tacoma; Puyallup; Sumner; Orting; Eatonville; Morton; Mineral
(missing 2-1-2005). Makah Indian Reservation; Neah Bay
Miscellaneous unidentified (1975)
Quinault Indian Reservation (4/13-14/1974)
1972 verticals, unidentified
vertical rejects (1975-1976)
1973 verticals; Tacoma color negatives; Sea-Tac; Seattle-color and infrared negatives
unidentified.
unidentified.
May 17 1980 Mt. St. Helens
Riffe Lake; Mossyrock Dam; Bridge; Cowlitz River (10/15/1972)
October 15 1972 Olympia Brewery; Drive-in; State Capitol; downtown Olympia; Tacoma; Pt. Defiance; "Cheney Studs" lumber yard (1/4/1973); power line survey; Gig Harbor (2/4/1973); Undated. Unidentified river channel; Undated Shelton, WA; Undated. Unidentified infrareds
Unidentified aerial surveys; "Rejects" (4/30/1976); Grays Harbor "D.O.E." (5/26/1977)
Unidentified city blocks; river course
Mt. Hood. OR
Unidentified aerial surveys
Unidentified aerial surveys. Includes Chehalis Steam Plant (?)
Unidentified "test strips": airport runway
Aerial surveys, labeled "Washington irrigation"
Unidentified aerial surveys: creek path. Possibly continuation of Roll 37.
Signed typescript letter, with envelope, by former President William H. Taft to Dr. Otis Holmes in Walla Walla, Washington.
Poem with manuscript changes. Contains the words only. Was set to music by Charles Wakefield Cadman; verso of sheet with poem has Cadman's letterhead. Also postcard sent by Cadman to "Mrs. Winnie."
Biographical information and related correspondence about Jettchen Uhden Nelson's husband, veterinarian and Washington State University faculty member Sofus B. Nelson. Dr. Nelson was appointed as Professor of Veterinary Science in 1895; beginning in 1919 he served as Dean and Director of the Washington State University Extension Service. He was a fellow of the American Veterinary Medical Association.
The general committee records consists of correspondence to/from the committee chair or relating to the committee’s work, meeting minutes, and documentation created by the committee or others which informed the process of selecting artworks. Project records may include correspondence relating to the project, specs for the artists’ use, floorplans and grounds plans of the area, notes on the selection process, and information from the selected artist.
This collection consists of 34 black and white photographs of musical artists. A number of the photographs are personally autographed to Dr. Bundy and his wife, Mary Sarah Rappleye Bundy, or to two of his daughters, Barbara Jean Bundy and Eleanor Mabel Bundy.
This collection consists of a single item, the master plan of the College Hill Association (Pullman, WA), created in 2005.
Letters to Clive Bell, Sidney Waterlow, and Clarence Winchester (one typed letter and two autograph letters, all signed).
These accessions consist of professional papers of historian David H. Stratton.
MS.1999.33:
David Stratton professional papers. Includes files related to major historic preservation projects, research and teaching, and other professional activities.
Preliminary inventory:
Box 1. Brief vita, and beginning of county files (A-G)
Box 2-5. County files continued. Beginning of a new alphabetical sequence: inventory of historic places.
Box 6-9. Inventory of historic places continued. New sequence: categories.
Box 10-13. Another alphabetical sequence (places). New sequence: Washington State Advisory Council on Historic Preservation files. Boxes of slides.
Box 14. District histories (bound), and more historic preservation files.
Box 15-18. Hells Canyon National Recreation Area project files. Box 18 includes Chinese Massacre files.
Box 19. Washington State Advisory Council on Historic Preservation files.
Box 20-21. Washington State Historical Society files.
Box 22-31. Washington Centennial Commission files.
Box 32-33. Grants, Professional agencies, etc.
Box 34. WSU committees.
Box 35. DHS research.
Box 36. WSU, Pacific NW history instruction and reference material (includes course packs).
Box 37. WSU grants and proposals.
Box 38. WSU centennial.
Box 39. WSU committees and activities.
Box 40. Washington centennial memorabilia.
Loose material: binders with copies of theses and other manuscripts by others.
Box 41. Atlases and other large printed items.
Box 43-45. Student papers.
MS.2000.04:
David Stratton papers, 1977-1990. (5 boxes; 5 linear feet)
MS.2005.04:
This collection contains David Stratton's Hells Canyon reports. (1 box; 1 linear foot)
MS.2015.13:
Professional papers of David Stratton, historian and Washington State University professor. Primarily collected research materials related to his research on Albert Fall and the Teapot Dome scandal (reproductions and some original documents). Circa 1890s-1990s. (17 containers; 22 linear feet)
Preliminary inventory:
Boxes 1 and 16. Jouett Fall Elliott files (daughter of Albert Fall). Photographs, scrapbooks, and correspondence.
Boxes 2-13. Fall and Teapot Dome Project files. Mostly reproduced archival materials, along with some original documents (Albert Fall press clipping books and scrapbook).
Boxes 14-15: Miscellaneous papers: correspondence files (Pacific Northwest Quarterly, University of Washington Press, Eastern Washington State Historical Society, Western History Association); Wranglers file (mainly programs); publications edited by David Stratton; thesis by Carpenter about the Medicine Creek Treaty.
Box 17: Maps of Tucumcari and vicinity (rolled).
Container 18: Bound volume: Forest atlas of the national forests of the United States. Wallowa (Oregon) folio. United States Forest Service, 1917. Extensive annotations showing 1917 grazing allotments.
MS.2019.12:
David Stratton papers, 1962-2013. (3 boxes; 3 linear feet)
Contains photographs, writings, and clippings of F.L. Audrain's activities with the Washington State University agricultural extension service, especially with the Kiona-Benton City Canning Club, 1915-1916.
The collection contains school registers, or student registers, from the first (1892) enrollees at what would become Washington State University up through 1919. In 1905, the volumes began including summer school enrollment information. They include the school's college students and non-college students both. The content of the registers varies over time, but consists of student information that can include attendance, grades, limited demographic information, and notes on why they finally left the school. The collection is retained in its original bindings and order.
This collection consists of papers related to Arthur Johnson's projects for the Soil Conservation Service, including his designs for more efficient means of planting and harvesting of grasses. The collection contains journals, correspondence, and publications, as well as reports and notes related to Johnson's projects. There is also a large number of technical drawings for the machines Johnson designed.
The collection consists of documents collected by or created by the Washington State University Department of Physical Education for Women. Included are a volume of departmental accounts (1921-1940) and roll books from 1921-1922, but the majority of the collection dates from the 1960s and deals with planning for the uses of Smith Gym in the event of a nuclear attack.
The records consist of business records of the Washington Women United (WWU) organization and contemporary information about the Washington State legislature.
The records are organized as five series: Business Records, Correspondence, Miscellanea, Women's Legislative Reception Reports, and Writings.
Business Records contain Board of Directors election results and applications, a committee report, financial information, meeting agendas and minutes, and membership lists and solicitation.
Within the Correspondence files are letters and memoranda to the Board of Directors, general correspondence and memoranda, thank you letters to legislators, and letters from legislators to WWU.
The Miscellanea series contains files on the 1985 Comparable Worth Action Project, general and primary elections, issues, legislative voting records, long range planning, telephone trees, town meetings, and the 1984 Women's Networking Conference.
The Women's Legislative Reception Reports series contains organizational information on the 1985 Reception, attendance lists, invitations, and copies of speeches WWU leaders delivered.
The Writings series includes the originals of legislative newsletters and Board of Directors materials, and WWU legislative reports and monthly newsletters.
Letter from Kingsley Martin to Laurence Cadbury in response to a letter of criticism that Cadbury sent to Martin.
Award to Washington State College for support of the public information program of the civilian Ground Observer Corps.
This item is titled "Should I Go to College?" It is an essay on the merit of college education by L.P. Sieg, a former president at the University of Washington.
The collection consists of two 2022 reports, in pdf format, created under contract to WSU. One is a Level II Mitigation Documentation foe the Demolition of Johnson Hall; the other is a Historic Property Report on Johnson Hall. Both files in the collection were copied to WSU MASC’s archival storage, and the original flash drive was retained.
The collection consists of electronic media which had been held at the BCU printing center. Many of the materials appear to be videos of veterinary medicine events, or of news stories related to them. The full contents of the collection remain to be evaluated.
Box 1 contains six video laser discs from the 1990s, with three accompanying manuals. Some of these appear to be commercial produced, and need evaluation. Also in Box 1 are 275 DVDs, most in 5 plastic containers which maintain the order and arrangement in which they came to the archives. Most DVDs are labeled with title and/or date, and appear to be from the 1990s and 2000s.
The bulk of box 2 is 230 miniDV tapes from the 2000s. Many of the MiniDV tapes are in small cardboard boxes of six tapes each; those are how they came to MASC and those boxes retain the order that they came in. Also in the box are 6 VHS tapes, 2 u-matic tapes, and 3 VHS-C tapes, and six VHS tapes. Most of the items in these latter four formats are undated; the VHS range form 1996-2004.
Box 3 contains 24 hard drives, as well as a variety of power supplies which came with them. Most are labeled with dates, between 2004 and 2015.
Papers on the preceptor system, compiled by Carl Morrow for the Council of the Phi Sigma Kappa. Includes typescript reports (carbon copies) by Riverda H. Jordan and others describing "well established preceptor plans" from various fraternities, with a memorandum giving Morrow's recommendations.
Consists of administrative information about the JESSI (Junior Engineers and Scientists Summer Institute) program from 1959-1964. It includes lists of admitted students, and schedules of events.
The ten bound volumes contain minutes of the committee meetings, correspondence reports, statistical records, memoranda, and other communications received and transmitted by the Committee. There are records of discussions pertaining to the building and subsequent remodeling of Holland Library, library procedures and policies, and rulings from the administration on various issues relating to the Washington State University Library.
There are no records for the years 1972-1975 when the University's committee structure was being reorganized under the University Senate. The last folder briefly covers the years 1976-1979.
This collection consists of the financial ledger of S. W. Roberts, a physician in Wilson Creek, Washington. It contains brief descriptions of services to families and companies, how much each service cost, and whether or not each bill had been paid. The entries span from 1913-1921.
Proposal (typescript, copy) for agricultural land in Washington State, prepared by two associate agricultural economists at the Division of Farm Management and Agricultural Economics, Washington Agricultural Experiment Station.
A history of the 319th College Training Detachment as written by Duett T. Teal. Note: the table of contents list a sequence of appendices and photographs which are not present in this copy.
The collection consists of approximately 725 black and white photographs, which were taken by various photographers in Washington State during from 1935 to 1950, which was during the construction of the Grand Coulee Dam. Most of the photographs are individually dated and labeled with a description of the photograph, including the photographer, machinery pictured, and construction processes. According to information found on the photographs, they were taken for the purpose of keeping a record of the dam’s construction.
Machinery pictured in the collection includes concrete mixers and pourers, conveyor feeders and belts, trestles, barges, trimmer machine, irrigation equipment, siphons, and steel beams. These machines and materials were used to lay the foundation, build the structure, and create the irrigation facilities of the Grand Coulee Dam. Some construction companies involved in the dam’s build are the Utah Construction Company, Winston Bros. Co., Morrison-Knudsen Co., Walter W. Harfst Co., Inc., Minnis & Shilling, and Haas & Rothschild. Photographers such as A.F. Swanson, J.D. Roderick, John C. Hutton, F.B. Pomeroy, Harold E. Foss, and H.W. Fuller were responsible for the images in this collection. It is believed that the photographers were all working for the U.S. Army core of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation, or similar organizations and the photographs were taken over the course of their employment.
This collection contains the papers of Dr. Lavon M. Koger, Professor of Veterinary Medicine at Washington State University, between 1936 and 1982. The collection primarily consists of papers related to Dr. Koger's time as a professor, including teaching materials, departmental documents, as well as photographs. The collection also contains materials such as notes, journals, newspaper clippings, and numerous professional publications.
Preliminary Inventory:
Boxes 1-3:
Teaching materials, research notes, lecture notes (from his time as a student at WSC), correspondence, departmental documents, newspaper clippings, diaries (1975-1979), and various professional publications, as well as photographs, overhead projector slides, and microscope slides (glass), 1936-1979.
Box 4:
Materials related to Dr. Koger's research and teaching, including photographs (slides, prints, and negatives), audiocassettes, film, as well as 3D glasses, and Viewmaster reels and viewer, 1960s-1970s.
Box 5:
Teaching materials, research notes (including the topics of pregnancy diagnosis in ewes and foot and mouth disease), correspondence, departmental documents, newspaper clippings, and various professional publications, as well as photographs and negatives, 1964-1978.
Box 6:
Research notes, department related forms, documents pertaining to the registration and licensing of controlled substances, multiple copies of Modern Veterinary Practice (February, 1978, Volume 59, Number 2), as well as negatives, 1970s.
Boxes 7-8:
Teaching materials, research notes (including the topics of shipping fever, DSMO, and Dwarfism in Bovines), correspondence, departmental documents, newspaper clippings, and various professional publications, as well as photographs (slides and negatives), curriculum vitae, and preliminary collection inventory, 1960s-1980s.
Box 9:
Papers related to Dr. Koger's research and sabbatical travels, including a research journal (containing various materials from his sabbatical), and copies of publications, 1970s.
Boxes 10-11:
Teaching materials, research notes, correspondence, departmental documents, newspaper clippings, and various professional publications, 1960s-1970s.
Box 12:
Professional publications including veterinary school directories, journals, and newsletters, as well as correspondence and student papers, 1960s-1970s.
Box 13:
Research notes, correspondence (including information about a veterinary school class of 1942 reunion), newspaper clippings, and various professional publications, 1960s-1970s.
Box 14:
Professional publications including veterinary school directories, journals, and newsletters, as well as correspondence and student papers, 1960s-1970s.
Box 15:
Papers related to the American Veterinary Medical Association, including meeting minutes, correspondence, and the AVMA Group Insurance Trust, 1960s.
Boxes 16-18:
Teaching materials, research notes, faculty documents, correspondence, and various professional publications, 1950s-1970s.
Consists of a bound, hardcover book of items collected at the dedication of Carpenter Hall, including actual photographs, photocopies of correspondence from invitees, etc. Also contains biographical information on H. V. Carpenter, and a thank you card from Professor Carpenter's granddaughter on receipt of items sent to her in 1992 that were given out at the opening.
The collection consists of paper currency and two bonds. The bonds and two of the currency notes were issued by the Confederate States of America. The collection also includes a half crown paper note issued by the Assembly of Pennsylvania in 1769, and a town order in the amount of $2.31 issued by the town of Guilford (state not listed) in 1820.
A photocopy typescript of paper by Gerald Schwartz for a Washington State University History 491 course, 1966.
The collection consists of about 100 2x2-inch slides of original prints of logging during the early years of the twentieth century around Hoquiam, Washington and also a microfilm of same. Also included are photographs of Terry Abraham, Archives Librarian and G. Donald Smith, Director of the Library accepting the collection from ITT Rayonier representative Arden Kommer in 1976.
Letter to Elizabeth Salter, with his critique of her book on Edith Sitwell.
The records reflect the role of the Office of the Director of Resident Instruction in international development programs of the College of Agriculture. One sequence is chiefly composed of material about a variety of projects and international subjects from the Office of the Director. Dr. Rodney Bertramson held this position from 1967 to 1979 followed by Dr. C. Alan Pettibone from 1979 to 1985. Dr. Pettibone was a member of the advisory committee for the International Program Development Office and a member of the Advisory Committee for the Indonesia Project.
A second and large sequence of record, it constituting the bulk of the material, is related to the Office of the Assistant to the Director of Resident Instruction, Dr. Martin V. Waananen. Dr. Waananen served as the Campus Coordinator for the University of Jordan project and the Indonesia Project. He also directed a training program which WSU carried out for the Peace Corps and the subsequent recruitment programs for Peace Corps/Action.
This collection contains meeting minutes, religious census, church service leaflets, church directories, correspondence, and membership and financial records of the association of ministers in Pullman, Washington between 1906 and 1960.
The minutes are recorded in two volumes which also contain expense and attendance records, along with correspondence, notes, and a telegram sent to President Woodrow Wilson on August 30, 1914.
This collection consists of four reports issued by the Washington State Reclamation Service.
Signed transcript embossed with the seal of Harvard University, re: appointment of William R. Thayer. This letter is addressed from Charles William Eliot in Cambridge Massachusetts to the Secretary of International Historical Congress, February 11, 1903.
This collection consists of ephemeral materials collected by Homer Jackson Dana. It includes brochures, pamphlets, and catalogs for Automobiles 1915-1950 (Series 1), Tractors 1915-1919 (Series 2), Engines 1915-1918 (Series 3), Parts and Equipment 1915-1922 (Series 4), Appliances, Electric Lighting, and Miscellaneous 1915-1921 (Series 5) which includes operating manuals, parts lists, and other materials documenting mechanical and electrical technology.
This form letter is made out to Thomas L. Hunt in Colfax, Washington, August 27, 1881. Manuscript signed by J.W. Armstrong, Register.
The collection consists of 42 black and white photographs dating from Hendrik Baarslag’s 1927-1932 days as a student at Washington State College.
The photographs are believed to have been taken by Baarslag or his friends. A small number of the photographs have a Graves Studio stamp on the back; it is unclear if Graves took those photographs, or merely developed them.
This collection consists of photographs, newspapers clippings, correspondence, and other documents related to the career of Washington State University (WSU) professor and Tree Fruit Research and Extension Center director Archie Van Doren. The bulk of the materials concern an honorary dinner on March 17, 1966 in Yakima, Washington sponsored by the Washington State Apple Commission for Dr. Van Doren’s work on controlled atmosphere storage.
A typescript copy, certified as an exact duplicate by George L. Converse III, July 24, 1936. Notarized. Reminiscences of military experiences.
Records of the Pullman Chapter of League of Women Voters consist primarily of subject files concerning various public issues. These files are made up of variety of memoranda, reports, and miscellaneous publications.
Records of the Palouse Conservation Field Station consist of annual and other reports, along with compilations of data.
This collection is comprised of 22 typescripts of plays, one with original and revised editions, written by Hermine Duthie Decker. Several of the manuscripts include notes or letters addressed to Professor Maynard Lee Daggy of Washington State College, asking for his criticism.
Additionally, the collection includes item lists, photographs of performances, an excerpt from a letter to Mrs. Mary Avery, and a WSU Hilltopics article about Hermine Duthie Decker and the Slocum House in Vancouver, Washington.
The collection consists of one cassette tape and a complete interview transcript. Spokane, Washington architect Kenneth Brooks speaks about his midwest childhood, his early architectural influences, his schooling at University of Illinois, and his World War II experiences. He talks about coming to Spokane in 1949, his WWP projects, and his architectural work. Includes discussion on architectural education, and his favorite projects.
Manuscript, dated 1833 April 15, of receipts related to horse care. Includes a transcription by M. Blyth, dated September 1889.
This collection comprises Murrow-related recordings of the 1973 dedication of the Murrow Communications Center, various Murrow symposia from the 1970s until 2002, and the 1994 Murrow Postage Stamp dedication ceremony. The collection consists of audio and video materials in a myriad of formats.
Reel-to-reel audio recordings preserve talks delivered at the 1973 Murrow Communications Center dedication including those by Murrow's widow Janet and the speakers at the first Murrow Symposium: CBS News commentator Eric Sevareid and Harry Ashmore, Pulitzer-Prize winning editorial writer on the 1957 Little Rock, Arkansas, school desegregation and in 1973 President of the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. The theme for the symposium was "Threats to the Public's Right to Know."
The next recording is a single audio cassette from the 1978 Murrow Symposium of the keynote address delivered by Richard Wald, then vice president of ABC News and former president of NBC News. That year featured Howard K. Smith of ABC News speaking about the First Amendment and broadcasting. Fifteen audio reel-to-reel tapes and cassettes preserve more of the 1979 symposium, which centered on the topic of "international rights and media news flow." Held before the Iranian hostage crisis began, the symposium featured Ted Koppel who by the end of the year anchored the nightly update on the crisis in the program that would become ABC News Nightline.
In 1980, the Murrow Symposium's theme was "Mass Media and the Political Process: Reshaping American Democracy." Seven audio cassettes record many of the talks given by regional media representatives and also a panel moderated by Richard Leonard of the Milwaukee Journal newspaper. The symposium in 1981 centered on the "information society" with PBS President Robben Fleming speaking on "The Future of Telecommunications." Three reel-to-reel audio tapes seem to preserve addresses from that symposium that were aired later as a KWSU special report.
The collection then jumps to the 1983 symposium, which marked the seventy-fifth anniversary of Murrow's birth with a program titled: "The Murrow Heritage: A Challenge for Tomorrow." Speakers included Walter Cronkite, Charles Kuralt, Diane Sawyer, and others but only Fred Friendly's "Socratic discussion" is preserved here on video tape. Friendly, the former president of CBS News, by that time was well known for his Socratic discussions on PBS that became the Fred Friendly Seminars.
The next recordings are video tapes from ABC News senior correspondent Bettina Gregory's 1988 Edward R. Murrow Symposium lecture entitled, "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly of TV News." Video recordings of FCC Chair Albert Sykes's address at the 1992 symposium and then Charles Kuralt's address in 1993 follow. At the 1996 symposium, WSU alumnus and ABC sports broadcaster Keith Jackson sat on a panel discussing inter-collegiate athletics which is preserved here on reel-to-reel video tape and cassettes.
The final symposia included are VHS recordings of Bernard Shaw's 2001 and Daniel Schorr's 2002 addresses as Murrow Award winners.
Concluding the collection, six video tapes documented the 1994 dedication at WSU of a postage stamp honoring Murrow and the media coverage of it.
This collection consists of an account book of Barman's, Inc., a general merchandise store in Colville, Washington. It includes detailed records (carbon copies) of transactions from July 31 to October 31, 1910.
Holograph letter, signed, addressed "Dear Madam" (possibly Margaret L. Stevens), about the administration of the estate of "the governor" (probably Isaac I. Stevens). Deals with the sale of personal items, collection of rents, and includes information about the solvency of the estate.
Articles and reports concerning Indians: Report of P. Edward Connor, Colonel, Third California Infantry, Engagement of the Bear River, Utah Territory, January 29, 1863, 8 pages; How the Indian averted famine by T.M. Bridges, 4 p.; Burial customs of the Indians of the Northwest by Thomas Miller, 13 p.; Indian dances, 4 p.; some common superstitions of the Indian, 5 p.
Typescript transcripts of Clatsop Plains Presbyterian Church trustee minutes, a historical sketch, address and letter. Materials are dated 1846-1926.
This collection contains the papers of Dr. James R. King (1927-1991), a Professor in the Department of Zoology at Washington State University from 1960 to 1991. The collection primarily consists of teaching and research materials, including assignments, exams, lecture notes, photographs, as well as manuscript drawings and graphs. The collection also contains professional correspondence, article and manuscript reviews, records pertaining to his publication "Avian Biology", and papers related to professional associations. Additionally, the collection includes papers from the Department of Zoology, such department correspondence and committee letters and reports.
Preliminary Inventory:
Boxes 1-4: Professional correspondence
Box 5: Department of Zoology papers, including committee letters and reports, and memos
Box 6: Course materials, including assignments, exams, lecture notes, and overhead projector sheets from the 1960s and 1970s
Box 7: Course materials, including assignments, exams, lecture notes, and overhead projector sheets from the 1960s (mainly 1960 and 1961)
Box 8: Materials connected to professional organizations, including articles, correspondence, and pamphlets, as well as records pertaining to his publication Avian Biology;
Box 9: Research materials, including notes and articles
Box 10: Manuscripts and article reviews (including two copies of a book manuscript), correspondence related to his publication Avian Biology, as well as banding and collecting reports from various states
Box 11: Papers and correspondence related to grants and research foundations, including the National Science Foundation, as well as research notes and documents pertaining to the WSU Department of Zoology
Box 12: Conference and research notes
Box 13: Research notes
Box 14: Research and lecture notes including photographs and illustrations
Boxes 15-16: Manuscript drawings including large scale hand-written graphs
This collection consists primarily of documents such as blueprints, photos, data diagrams, materials testing lab books, and research papers detailing the research and projects of WSC’s Mechanical Engineering Department. Most of these projects took place on WSC’s campus although a few projects were undertaken by the department on behalf of off-campus entities, including local high schools, hospitals, and companies. Materials dedicated to the design and installation of the 1930s WPA-funded campus power plant figure largely in this collection, with research for the proposed power plant beginning in the 1920s.
Additionally, the collection contains correspondence between WSC Mechanical Engineering faculty and students needing federal aid in order to continue attending college during the Great Depression as well as the federal relief project sheets used to create and track the work-study opportunities provided to selected students. This collection also includes papers and pre-written dialogue for bi-weekly radio talks in the 1930s that shared the latest research of Mechanical Engineering faculty as well as updates on student activities. Other materials provide the minutes, programs, and activities generated by Mechanical Engineering students and their faculty sponsors in Sigma Xi, Phi Kappa Phi, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the Student Activity Committee. There are also materials from the 1937 glider accident during which two Mechanical Engineering students, Cloyd Artman and Frank See, were killed during a demonstration in front of the WSC Aero Club (headed by Professor Howard Langdon). Letters, witness testimonies, newspaper reports, and photos of the crash scene are included among these materials.
This collection also contains a substantial amount of faculty correspondence, largely generated by Professor Howard Langdon during his tenure as department chair and covering a variety of topics including his own research, department issues, changes in curriculum, and student matters.
This collection consists of an audio recording of the Potter Lectureship silver anniversary symposium, "How Can We Revive the Potters' Ideals Today?" and the Winter 1986-1987 issue of Cornucopia, a publication of the College of Sciences and Arts at Washington State University. This issue includes an article about the silver anniversary event, "Celebrating a Great Teacher: A Tribute to Frank Fraser Potter."
Signed holograph discussing the life of John R. Rogers. Includes an enclosure of newspaper clipping by Senator Charles M. Baldwin from the Clarkston Herald, [1941?].
Letters received from Edith, Osbert and Sacheverell Sitwell regarding their own publications as well as comments on the literary and social life around them. Included are holograph manuscripts of poems and other works, especially a 140 page holograph notebook of Edith Sitwell's verse. Presentation copies of the Sitwell's books also included. Includes music manuscript of William Walton and letter of Constant Lambert.
A handwritten letter, with envelope, from Enoch A. Bryan, president of the State College of Washington, to Ben Torpen, Portland, Oregon. Bryan discusses life and events at the college, including elections, athletics, and agriculture. A two page summary of the letters contents is also included.
These reminiscences deal with prospecting in Idaho, a Chinese miner, and steamboats on Pend Orielle Lake, Inc. the Henry Villard.
This collection consists of correspondence between E.W. Giesecke and Ye Galleon Press editor Glen Adams, primarily letters from Adams to Giesecke, from 1965 to 1997. Most are concerned with publishing business matters, including detailed accounts of happenings at the press, and works by Giesecke, including his introductions to some of Ye Galleon's titles.
Certificate of naturalization, 1858; discharge from the United States Army, 1865, under name John Bloom.
This collection contains records of the Crimson Circle at Washington State College (later Washington State University) between 1919 and 1971. The collection includes correspondence, minutes, membership information, organization historical records, and a book of newspaper clippings regarding the organization.
This collection of Roy Roland Gill's papers focuses on his activities as an officer of the Columbia Basin Irrigation League. The League was an advocacy and lobbying group for development of Inland Northwest water resources for irrigation and hydroelectric power production. The collection consists of correspondence, reports, minutes, publications, speeches, financial records, legislation, clippings and photographs related to the League's promotional activities. Gill's correspondence makes up most of the collection. He received letters and telegrams from a wide range of correspondents, many of them federal officials, corporate executives, and prominent regional businessmen, offering information, strategy suggestions, assessment of progress, and analysis of developments. Some noteworthy correspondents are Herbert Hoover, Hervey Lindley, Elwood Mead, Hubert Work, Mark E. Reed, Miles Poindexter, and William Borah.
Four items, including notes of a conversation written between two deaf people in Spokane, Washington, receipts, and a grocery list.
The collection consists of a single unpublished paper, 14 pages plus two oversized hand-colored maps, written by Thomas H. Cole. It was done for the Division of Mines and Geology, Department of Conservation and Development, State of Washington. The report covers the geology of the Heidegger Hill area, located a few miles south of Kettle Falls, WA.
This collection consists of a single item: volume III of a "Kriegstagebuch," or war diary, kept by A.G. Martin from September 1940 to August 1941. It is an 82-page bound typescript, in German, relating his experiences and observations at locations mainly in the Rhineland-Palatinate area of Germany. He and his wife spent much of their time in Bad Homburg, which may have been their home during this time, and most of the diary entries were made there. They also traveled to Baden-Baden, Frankfurt, Berlin, Freiburg, and other destinations. A.G. Martin's sister, Wilhemine "Minnie" Martin Henschel, had married into a prominent manufacturing family in Kassel, and they visited that city in 1940.
Because the repository has no accompanying documentation for the collection, and the volume itself names the author only as "A.G. Martin," the processors of the collection in 2018 found it challenging to identify him. After locating a 1936 memoir by Lieutenant Colonel A.G. Martin, Mother Country, Fatherland: The Story of a British-Born German Soldier, they were able to compare details in the diary with information in the published memoir, and determined that both works are by the same author.
It is likely that this volume is a typed original, or a contemporary transcription by the author, rather than a later typed transcription. The repository has no information about the existence or location of other volumes of Martin's war diary.
The collection consists primarily of research proposals for agricultural projects seeking funding, and then of research progress reports for funded projects. Usually both the proposals and progress reports for a given year are combined in one document. Documents date from 1976 to 2011. Each report is addressed to one of the Washington State commodity commissions; a very few series may be addressed to other commissions.
The research covered in these documents generally comes from subsidiary departments to Washington State University’s College of Agriculture (later CAHE, still later CAHNRS).
This collection contains correspondence, clippings, a scrapbook, and other materials relating to the history of Endicott, Washington, all written, collected, or compiled by Anna Biedel Weitz of Endicott. The materials date from 1904 to 1983. Weitz's research encompassed the town's schools, churches, lodges, clubs, railroads, telephone system, etc. A scrapbook of newspaper clippings is included in the collection, chronicling the history of Endicott. This series, titled "The Blue Mirror," appeared in the Endicott Index in 1935 and was written by Miss E. Deane Smith. There is also a history of the town written by Earl Miller.
In addition to Weitz's historical information on the town, the collection includes her own writings, several published in 1986: "The Volga-German epicure," "Country Lanes," "Victory Parade," "With Freedom's Holy Light," and many others.
Signed holograph about a book of Daniel Rowland and about his descendants.
January 1940 progress report by the Land Use Planning Committee of Spokane County of the Unified County Program.
This collection consists of the “clearance card” of Brother G. M. Annis certifying that he is a fully paid member of the Northern Light Lodge Number 70 of the Independent Order of Good Templars, Spokane, Washington. It is dated 1892 April 4 and indicates that Mr. Annis became a member on 1891 August 31.
Study done for the Retail Merchant's Association of Pullman, Washington.
Signed manuscript about Dr. Daniel P. Hewit's practice of medicine, notarized by Auditor of Adams County.
Signed holograph about the autographs of Whittier and Longfellow. This letter was addressed from J.G. Holland in Springfield to "My Dear Elwell," March 2, 1865.
This collection contains records of the Western Farmers Association (formerly the Washington Cooperative Egg and Poultry Association), including correspondence, publications, ledgers (minutes), photographs, and reports. It includes a complete run of the association's journals "WASHCOEGG" and "Western Farmer". The collection also contains copies of a publication on the history of the Washington Co-Operative Farmers Association from 1917 to 1956, audit reports, and various papers pertaining to the organization and other local cooperatives.
This collection consists of manuscripts and research materials of writer Ted Van Arsdol.
MS.2005.21: These papers dated from 1973 to 2003 include documents pertaining to American Indian fishing on the Columbia River (correspondence, legal documents, data tables, and newspaper clippings), as well as Van Arsdol's manuscripts for History and Development of the General Telephone Company of the Northwest, Robley Johnson Remembers, and Land of Prunes: The Rise and Fall of the Prune Industry in Clark County, Washington.
MS.2005.24: These papers dated from 1944 to 2004 consist of materials related to the history of Eastern Washington (the Tri-Cities, Yakima, Benton City, Moses Lake, Othello), and World War II. It includes printed ephemera, photographs, maps, newspaper clippings, and articles.
MS.2009.13: This accession contains two typescripts related to Ted Van Arsdol's research on C. C. Van Arsdol (one annotated photocopy and one carbon), with descriptive and financial information about electric utilities (Washington-Idaho Water, Light & Power Company). The carbon consists of pages 13-31 of a larger, unidentified document.
MS.2016.26: This accession includes 12 boxes of material, and forms the bulk of the Van Arsdol Papers. Primarily materials related to his research and writing on topics in Pacific Northwest history: manuscripts, publications, notes, and collected research material. Also several files of C.C. Van Arsdol photographs and correspondence related to surveys for the Grand Trunk Pacific Railroad, and the Idaho Road and Northern Pacific. Most of the C.C. Van Arsdol material is original documents, but some items are reproductions obtained from archival repositories. (A detailed preliminary inventory for this accession, prepared by the donor, is filed in box 11.)
This collection contains 517 posters, most issued by governments to influence behavior and public morale. Most items are from the period beginning with the start of World War I and concluding with the end of World War II.
The posters found here were collected by the Washington State University Libraries, dating back into the 1910s. They became part of the College's War Library, a collection established in 1937-1938, consisting of rare books, pamphlets, posters, and other ephemera. The collection continued to grow through donations from various sources. In 2009, approximately 300 posters were assembled into this collection. In 2013, approximately 200 more posters were added to the collection. Dating largely from World War II and post-World War II, most of the added posters are in French and are directed toward Parisians, announcing war updates and requesting public action. The additions also include United States World War I and World War II posters, and Russian post-World War I posters.
Poster titles were transcribed from the item, where no title was available, one was created by the collection processors, Amy Sabourin and Morgan Clendenning, and is shown in brackets.
English translations were supplied by collection processor, Amy Sabourin.
Series 1: Propaganda Posters (Russia, South America, Europe, Canada), 1914-1996
Subseries 1.1: Russian Language Posters, 1917-1996
Subseries 1.2: South American Posters, World War I, 1914-1918
Subseries 1.3: European Posters, World War I, 1914-1918
Subseries 1.4: Canadian Posters, World War I, circa 1914-1918
Series 2: Propaganda Posters (United States), World War I, circa 1914-1920
Subseries 2.1: Food Conservation and Material Donations, 1914-1919
Subseries 2.2: Financial Aid: War Savings Stamps, 1914-1918
Subseries 2.3: Financial Aid: Red Cross, 1914-1918
Subseries 2.4: Financial Aid: War Bonds, 1914-1919
Subseries 2.5: Financial Aid: United War Work Campaign, Y.M.C.A, Y.W.C.A; 1914-1919
Series 3: Propaganda Posters (United States), World War II, 1939-1949
Subseries 3.1: Food and Resource Conservation, 1939-1945
Subseries 3.2: Financial Aid: War Bonds, 1939-1945
Subseries 3.3: Public Morale, 1942-1945
Subseries 3.4: Military Recruitment and Training Aids, 1939-1949
Subseries 3.5: Public Information and Safety, 1942-1944
Series 4: International Relations Propaganda Posters (United States and International), World War II, 1939-1945
Series 5: Propaganda Posters (France), World War II and Post World War II, 1939-1960
Subseries 5.1: French World War II, 1939-1945
Subseries 5.2: French Post-World War II, 1943-1955
Series 6: Miscellaneous, 1914-1990
Advertisement for an exhibit at the Holland Library about the Russian Revolution.
Poster featuring Russian language text with a quote at the top.
Propaganda poster portraying a female worker pointing emphatically to a row of factory smoke stacks.
Propaganda poster featuring a group of smiling women carrying flags and dressed in red, white, and blue.
Propaganda poster showing a female worker holding an ad poster with a long line of female workers walking from the factories to the countryside with signs lifted up.
Propaganda poster showing two workers discussing plans for a piece of machinery. In the background are images of people shooting guns and a presentation scene.
Propaganda poster featuring images of young athletes performing various physical activities.
Propaganda poster with graphic of workers marching with flags and farming equipment. At the base of the image are images of a crown, royal seal, and a pile of gold.
Propaganda poster with graphic of a man on a winged red horse flying over a Russian village in a flaming sky. The man is shown holding a torch and an open book.
Propaganda poster with graphic portraying two men on a winged horse in front of a red star with an image of an army surrounding a burning city.
Poster advertising an exhibition of paintings from the Christian Keesee Collection at the Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art at the University of Oklahoma. Featured on the poster is a work by Sergei Mironenko titled, Goodbye.
Poster featuring a series of quotations in the Russian language.
Portrays a series of photographs and drawings. Includes a large cutout of a man to the far left of the poster, surrounded by crowds and lines of people. In the center of the poster is a portion of a map of Russia with a red shape flowing over much of the
Propaganda poster featuring a graphic of a religious figure pointing upward while holding onto a creature with pig limbs, a skirt, and a large bucket over its head.
Poster features a man walking out of view. Within his five footprints are scenes relating to religion, war, Nazism, and death that are associated with WWI and its repercussions.
Consists of twelve numbered drawings that are separated by black lines. The images range from realistic to cartoon, and consist of depictions of everyday life, as well as abstract ideas. The final image, number twelve, is the largest and illustrates a man
Propaganda poster illustrating three men, one with a swastika on his coat. The focus of their anger is upon a parade featuring a banner with the face of Joseph Stalin and "15 October."
Russian poster with the graphic of a man dressed as a waiter, presenting a serving platter with an angel placed on top. The angel has a sword stuck in its stomach and is pink with yellow hair. Bloody handprints are on the cloth the man holds, and there is
Consists of a chart surrounded by photographs of individuals working in a variety of factory settings.
Located in the center of the poster are graphics of Joseph Stalin with other significant men. Around them all are red images of fields, factories, and armies.
Poster illustrating a single sailor standing on a ship, observing a squadron of airplanes through binoculars.
Propaganda poster portraying a large black boot stepping upon a group of men representing a variety of religions, each illustrated with a halo around his head. One man is straddled on top of the boot with the intention of shinning it.
Promotional poster for the Red Cross in Ecuador. Graphic shows the American flag crossed with the Ecuadorian flag.
Promotional poster for the Red Cross in Peru. Graphic shows the American flag crossed with the Peruvian flag. English Translation: "The Red Cross, Mother of All the Nations"..."Emblems of Liberty and of Humanity."
Promotional poster for the Red Cross in the Dominican Republic. Graphic shows the American flag crossed with the flag of the Dominican Republic. English Translation: "The Red Cross, Mother of All the Nations"..."Emblems of Liberty and of Humanity."
Promotional poster for the Red Cross in Brazil. Graphic shows the American flag crossed with the Brazilian flag. English Translation: "The Red Cross, Mother of All the Nations"..."Emblems of Liberty and of Humanity."
A reminder that the people of Italy need more meat, wheat, fat, and sugar. English Translation: "Eat less of these foods so they can go to our people and troops."
Polish war propaganda poster asking for the aid of the American people. English Translation: "In America, will you help fight for liberty in Poland? Eat less!"
Propaganda poster featuring a cartoon depicting a nurse standing on a chair in terror from a mouse on the floor. The medicine she was to administer is lying on the floor. English Translation: "Where heroism returns to normalcy for the average woman"..."Evid
Propaganda poster featuring a cartoon depicting death strangling a German soldier. English Translation: "To the mothers, To the widows"..."Oh! I will finish well by having you too, William!"
Propaganda poster featuring a sketch of two German officers looking across a body of water at a smoking volcano.
Propaganda poster featuring a sketch of old man surveying a battlefield with crows perched nearby on a dead tree. English Translation: "Springtime"..."How black the nightingales are this year!"
Propaganda poster featuring a sketch of German officer surveying a vineyard field. English Translation: "In Champagne"..."If, at least, they would have planted all this with potatoes!"
Propaganda poster featuring a sketch of a submarine sailor using a telescope to look at an approaching ship. English Translation: "The Cowards"..."Damn! It seems to me that the captain has a gun!!!!"
Propaganda poster featuring a sketch of two Belgian children mocking a German soldier while he posts a proclamation. English Translation: "The German Occupation in Belgium" ... "The Proclamation of the Governor...the Effects!" ... "Dedicated to our little armies of
Propaganda poster featuring a charcoal drawing depicting two angelic beings carrying the flags of Britain and France in pursuit of a German officer who leaves a trail of crosses in his wake. The artist was inspired by a painting by Pierre-Paul Prud'hon
Propaganda poster featuring a pastel chalk image depicting a street full of weary refugees, probably somewhere in France.
Propaganda poster featuring a charcoal drawing depicting a young girl lying in the street in a puddle of blood while a line of troops marches by.
An anti-German war poster making fun of the German use of the letter "k" in places where it does not belong. English Translation: "The German K", "By a phenomenon as yet unexplained, the German Alphabet only understands a single letter: K."
Public announcement to the people of France with graphic depicting farm workers in the fields waving to American soldiers marching past. English Translation: "For the Beautiful Land of France"... "French countrymen, let's greet the free American soldiers when
Propaganda poster featuring graphic illustrating the story of a merciful Russian stretcher bearer who saved the lives of injured German soldiers from a vicious wolf attack in the woods of Augustow. English Translation (of title): "The Great War."
Propaganda poster featuring graphic illustrating the service and character of the American Red Cross to the people of France. English Translation: "The Heart of America"..."In the interior as with the soldiers, no sufferance is left unattended by the American
Propaganda poster featuring an illustrated dialogue between a group of freed German prisoners and their head officers. English Translation: "Mobilization of German Detainees (July 1914)"... "What did you do to deserve your imprisonment?" ... "What! You don't recall? "
French propaganda poster featuring graphic of a map of France with four individuals standing within and drinking cups of hot wine together. English Translation: "Hot Wine, From the Back to the Front...We will overcome in drinking it!"
Enlistment poster featuring a British flag.
Canadian naval recruitment poster advertising vacancies for seaman class boys, stokers, and other various trades. Desirable candidates are described as: "Only strong, healthy and well educated men and boys are required and they must be of good character."
Poster labeling an appropriate drop-off point for donated books. Poster also reminds the audience that donated books will be accepted at the public library.
Promotional poster for the Library War Service showing images of soldiers reading books that were provided by the American Library Association. (2 copies)
Promotional poster for the Library War Service showing images of soldiers reading books that were provided by the American Library Association.
Promotional poster for the Library War Service showing images of soldiers reading books that were provided by the American Library Association.
Promotional poster for the Library War Service showing images of soldiers reading books that were provided by the American Library Association. (2 copies)
A map of the United States featuring dots representing the locations of each "War Library" set up by the American Library Association.
A reminder to American citizens that public library books are free and that knowledge will help win the war. Graphic shows soldier climbing from the trenches onto a pathway of books leading to a U.S. city skyline. (2 copies)
Poster for the United War Work Campaign showing a sailor reading, and above him a soldier reminds the public that donations help soldiers receive the books they need. Stamped by the Committee on Public Information Division of Pictorial Publicity.
Poster reminding citizens of the need for books for soldiers overseas and encouraging them to bring their donations to the local public library.
Urges the American public to reduce consumption of sugary beverages, because the transportation of sugar diverts ships from the war effort. The graphic image depicts a woman drinking from a straw connected to the ocean, pulling ships from the other side o
Encourages children to eat corn and rice based cereals, saving wheat for soldiers. Graphic depicts a small boy saluting a bowl of oatmeal. (2 copies)
Poster aimed at encouraging the use of potatoes over wheat-based products by listing the potato's attributes.
Depicts woman cooking with corn products to demonstrate the many uses of corn for preparing meals in place of wheat. (2 copies)
Encourages American boys to serve their country on the farms by joining the U.S. Boys' Working Reserve. Graphic shows a farmer plowing farmland behind a horse. (2 copies)
Depicts three farmers, laden with crops, in order to encourage citizens to continue growing crops to help the war effort. (2 copies)
Encourages individuals to salt and cure their own meats in stoneware jars. Picture shows a woman labeled "Patriot" carrying cured meats and walking among stoneware jars. (2 copies)
Specifically targets immigrants who came to America, encouraging them to preserve the freedom they sought. Calls for waste minimization, and mentions wheat as one of the most needed crops. Image shows immigrants sailing into New York Harbor, with the city
Stresses the importance of sending food to the front lines, not just for the soldiers, but also for the women and children behind the lines. Poster includes a quote from General John J. Pershing. Picture shows convoy of army trucks filled with food. (2 co
Discourages waste to allow more resources for soldiers and their families. Graphic is a reproduction charcoal sketch of a soldier drinking coffee in the trenches. (2 copies)
Encourages the support of any nation opposing Prussianism through food conservation and donations. Graphic shows armed soldiers carrying the flags of the United States, United Kingdom, France, which are covering the Italian and German flags. (2 copies)
Relays Cardinal Mercier's appeal to the Food Administration for more food for war victims. Encourages food conservation to allow for more donations to France, Belgium, and Italy. (2 copies)
Poster asserting the soldiers' need for wheat. Graphic shows a battle scene. (2 copies)
Poster offers a four-part list of foods to conserve, and gives conservation-friendly alternatives.
Poster lists six ways to conserve food. (2 copies)
Poster outlining the Allied strategy for the food conservation campaign, emphasizing the point that the army's needs always come first. (2 copies)
Poster informing the general public of the reasons why avoiding the consumption of wheat and meat is vital to ensure the steady flow of supplies to our troops and allies in war torn Europe.
Offers a quotation from President Wilson that reads, "Hunger does not breed reform; it breeds madness and all the ugly distemper that makes ordered life impossible...The future belongs to those who prove themselves the true friends of mankind." A pastel portrait
This bulletin assures the public that the U.S. government has no intention of seizing private food reserves from its citizens, but reminds that hoarding of food or collecting more than is reasonable or necessary, is morally wrong and detrimental to the war
Picture of hungry people crowded in the streets of France to illustrate the need for U.S. citizens to conserve food in support of the war effort. (2 copies)
Picture shows three women laboring with farm equipment. Poster serves as a reminder that the women of France are feeding themselves, their children and also their soldiers, and encourages Americans to save wheat. (2 copies)
Graphic showing soldiers advancing on the battlefield with the slogan: "Victory is a Question of Stamina." Poster encourages the public to send more wheat, meat, fats, and sugar, the alleged "fuel for fighters."
Poster encouraging public not to waste food and adopt a "clean plate" doctrine. Graphic shows a rich gentleman leaving a large amount of food on his plate.
Anti-waste poster. Graphic is a reproduced pastel drawing depicting a soldier carrying a fallen comrade. (2 copies)
Reminder issued by the United States Food Administration to conserve supplies. Features a quote: "America: the hope of all who suffer, the dread of all who wrong." Image shows wounded war victims pointing to the quote.
Lists the appropriate foods to eat, as well as the foods to be conserved for the war effort. Image shows a table covered in approved foods, such as fish, fruits and vegetables. (2 copies)
Poster showing graphic of storehouse filled with fresh produce with the message: "This is what GOD gave us. What are you giving so that others may live? Eat less wheat, meat, fats, sugar. Send more to Europe or they will starve."
Poster showing images of fish swimming to reinforce the suggestion of eating more fish to help conserve meat for the soldiers.
Part of an ad campaign to boost sales of war savings stamps, this poster shows an image of Joan of Arc to inspire the public to fund the war effort.
Advertisement for War Savings Stamps. Graphic shows a bald eagle towering over a nest with hangars inside and allied airplanes flying out to do battle.
Poster encouraging the public to lend their savings to the war effort by buying war savings stamps. Graphic shows a gloomy hilltop with crosses arranged so as to be reminiscent of the crucifixion.
Graphic showing war savings stamps being fed into a machine gun to persuade American citizens that their investment in war savings stamps will help win the war.
Graphic depicting an angelic being holding a sword and a palm frond with the message, "Share in the Victory, Save for Your Country, Save for Yourself, Buy War Savings Stamps."
Image of small child holding the torch hand of the statue of liberty with the message that buying war savings stamps will save children from "autocracy and poverty."
A poster for the Red Cross annual roll call to raise money for the disabled ex-service men and their families.
Fundraising poster for the Red Cross featuring the first three American soldiers to die in the war, by name: Hay, Enright, and Gresham. Produced for War Fund Week, it advertises the need to raise one hundred million dollars. (2 copies)
Red Cross fundraising poster reminding the public that "All of the Red Cross War Fund goes for War Relief."
Red Cross fundraising poster reminding the public that "All of the Red Cross War Fund goes for War Relief."
Red Cross fundraising poster reminding the public that "All of the Red Cross War Fund goes for War Relief."
Red Cross promotional poster depicting a nurse holding an injured soldier with free arm raised high. (2 copies)
A bulletin issued by the Red Cross to inform the American public how their donations have gone to help soldiers overseas. Graphic depicts an American soldier strolling from a busy London square.
A bulletin issued by the Red Cross to inform the American public how their donations have gone to help prisoners of war in German prison camps. Near the bottom are instructions on how to send Christmas parcels to prisoners of war.
Fundraising poster for the Red Cross featuring an image of a concerned Red Cross nurse holding one end of a stretcher with a bomb exploding in the background.
A poster advertising the Red Cross. Graphic shows a heavily shadowed statue reaching for the Red Cross symbol. (2 copies)
Red Cross promotional poster advertising "War Fund Week, One Hundred Million Dollars, May 20-27." Graphic depicts a Red Cross nurse caring for a group of French children outside a burning city. (2 copies)
Poster utilizing the work of two well-known artists to advertise for the annual Christmas roll call of the Red Cross.
A message from the Red Cross stating that "a heart and a dollar" is all someone needs to join the Red Cross.
Fundraising poster for the Red Cross. Graphic shows the Statue of Liberty, holding the Red Cross Shield, rising above a soldier wounded on the battlefield. (2 copies)
Fundraising poster for the Red Cross War Fund. Graphic shows a group of soldiers, women and children looking to a large Red Cross beacon looming over the Capital Building and the Statue of Liberty.
Advertisement for the Red Cross Christmas Roll Call. Graphic shows a Red Cross nurse holding a scroll, and another woman signing it. The scroll reads, "Where Columbia Sets Her Name Let Everyone of You Follow Her."
Fundraising poster for the Red Cross War Fund. Graphic shows a Red Cross nurse reaching toward the audience with a beckoning expression while troops march by in the background.
Fundraising poster for the Red Cross War Fund. Graphic shows a wounded soldier, a woman, and a child looking across the water toward a city line and the Statue of Liberty. Red Cross symbol is in the top left corner. (2 copies)
Recruiting poster for the Red Cross. Graphic shows one nurse, with her arm around a regularly clothed woman, pointing as another nurse tends to an injured man.
Recruitment poster for the American Red Cross. Graphic is a reproduction of a charcoal drawing depicting a uniformed nurse leading a bandaged soldier.
Recruitment poster for the Red Cross. Graphic background is a large red cross, in front of which a Red Cross nurse tends to a wounded soldier, and a mother and her children.
Fundraising poster for the Red Cross War Fund Week. Graphic shows a hand clothed in a Red Cross uniform sleeve reaching down and sheltering the poor and wounded from the violent explosions on the battlefield.
Poster used as part of an ad campaign to bring job security to World War I veterans. Graphic depicts American soldiers charging into battle with a list of French cities written on a golden emblem. The written message encourages businesses to list their emblem
Ad poster for the Red Cross with an endorsement from President Wilson to answer the Red Cross Christmas Roll Call for Universal Membership. (2 copies)
Graphic shows a child, seated at a window while pasting a Red Cross service flag in the middle pane. (2 copies)
Bulletin No. 5 issued by the War Council of the American Red Cross to tell the story of Red Cross activities to the American people. (2 copies)
Red Cross poster depicting a wounded soldier, bandaged and on a stretcher, being cradled by a Red Cross Nurse.
Poster for the Red Cross Christmas Roll Call. Depicts a wounded soldier, bandaged and on a stretcher, being cradled by a Red Cross Nurse. (2 copies)
Advertisement for Victory Liberty Loan. Graphic shows a woman in Grecian dress holding a laurel wreath over the "Honor Roll" which lists surnames with obviously ethnic origins. The U.S. flag is in the background.
Advertisement for Victory Liberty Loan. Graphic depicts a soldier embracing his wife and child.
Advertisement for Victory Liberty Loan depicting a smiling man in overalls, probably a farmer.
Advertisement for Victory Liberty Loan. Graphic shows a soldier on the battlefield holding three German helmets.
Public endorsement of Liberty Bonds showing and image of a mother clutching her children to her side as she reaches out with a pleading gesture.
Advertisement for Fourth Liberty Loan. Graphic shows woman in Grecian dress and laurel wreath pointing across the ocean above the busy deck of a naval vessel.
Advertisement for Liberty Bonds. Graphic shows a cartoon depiction of the Statue of Liberty pointing sternly at the viewer.
Advertisement for Fourth Liberty Loan. Graphic shows a Prussian soldier dragging a woman through a town set on fire.
Advertisement for Fourth Liberty Loan. Graphic uses bright orange to give the illusion of New York Harbor in flames and the Statue of Liberty destroyed.
Advertisement for Victory Liberty Loan. Graphic depicts a U.S. Navy ship halting an enemy submarine while a large unarmed passenger liner goes by.
Advertisement for Fourth Liberty Loan. Graphic shows Columbia going into battle alongside the United States flag and bald eagle. In the background, soldiers march under a dark clouded sky.
Charcoal sketch featuring image of docked naval vessel used as an advertisement to encourage Americans to buy war bonds.
Poster reads, "Invest" under a large blue "V" for victory.
Advertisement for Liberty Bonds. Graphic shows an American soldier standing over a fallen Prussian soldier.
Advertisement for Liberty Bonds. Offers a quotation from Abraham Lincoln that reads, "That government of the people, by the people, for the people shall not perish from the earth." The portrait of Lincoln, in profile, resembles that found on a penny. A re
Advertisement for Liberty Bonds. Graphic is a reproduction of a pastel drawing depicting a woman and child being chased by a dark figure wearing an enemy soldier helmet.
Advertisement for Liberty Bonds. Features a red handprint symbolizing the Hun's "mark."
Advertisement for Liberty Bonds. Features a pair of blood soaked Prussian boots.
This advertisement for government bonds from Third Liberty Loan is a window sticker designed to adhere to a glass surface when moistened. (2 copies)
This advertisement for government bonds from Third Liberty Loan is a cut-out in the shape of the Liberty bell and is designed to hang from a doorknob.
Advertisement for Third Liberty Loan. Image shows a young girl clutching a government bond. (2 copies)
Advertisement for the Third Liberty Loan Campaign for the Boy Scouts of America. Image shows Boy Scout lifting up sword to Columbia with the inscription "Be Prepared."
Advertisement for Third Liberty Loan. Image shows American soldier climbing over the crest of a hill holding the American flag.
Advertisement for U.S. Government Bonds from Third Liberty Loan. Graphic shows immigrants on a ship, with a United States flag in the background.
Advertisement for U.S. Government Bonds from Third Liberty Loan. Graphic is a print of pastel drawing of an Allied soldier protecting a woman and her child from an enemy soldier. (2 copies)
Advertisement for U.S. Government Bonds from Third Liberty Loan. Graphic shows the Liberty Bell above a scene depicting colonial Philadelphia. (2 copies)
Advertisement for government bonds from Third Liberty Loan, urging Americans to demonstrate their patriotism through the purchase of bonds. Graphic shows an eagle flanked by two U.S. flags and two smoking cannons. (2 copies)
Advertisement for U.S. Government Bonds from Third Liberty Loan. Graphic shows soldier saying farewell to his father while encouraging him to buy government bonds.
Advertisement for U.S. Government Bonds from Third Liberty Loan. Graphic shows soldiers fighting under an orange sky.
Advertisement for U.S. Government Bonds from Third Liberty Loan. Graphic shows depiction of Columbia leading American troops into battle. (2 copies)
Advertisement for U.S. Government Bonds from Third Liberty Loan. Graphic shows mother and child praying for a soldier serving overseas with the words to the prayer printed below the image. Background consists of a blue band on top with red and white strip
Issued by the United War Work Campaign, issued by the National Catholic War Council Knights of Columbus. Graphic shows a senior soldier ordering infantrymen onto the battlefield.
Issued by the United War Work Campaign. Graphic shows elderly woman playing the piano for a group of men in sailor uniforms. The phrase "Songs of Today & Yesterday" appears below image.
Issued by the United War Work Campaign. Graphic shows servicemen and a woman seated at a table, viewing correspondence.
Issued by the United War Work Campaign. Graphic shows a club dinner at an Asian restaurant.
Issued by the United War Work Campaign. Graphic shows woman in uniform carrying a tray of doughnuts for the soldiers as part of a service provided by the Salvation Army. (2 copies)
Issued by the United War Work Campaign. Graphic shows three servicemen smiling together. Phrase at bottom of page reads, "Morale is winning the war."
Issued by the United War Work Campaign in support of the Y.M.C.A. to encourage worker participation in the war effort. Graphic depicts a metal worker lifting a large block labeled with a red Y.M.C.A. symbol. Appearing in the background is a Y.M.C.A. official
Advertisement for the Y.M.C.A. with a graphic portraying a Y.M.C.A. officer giving a cup of coffee to a soldier.
Poster supporting the Y.W.C.A. Graphic shows a girl standing in front of the Y.W.C.A. emblem.
Advertising poster for the United War Work Campaign, featuring the symbols for the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A. Graphic shows soldiers coming out of the snow and into the Y.M.C.A.
Advertising poster for the United War Work Campaign fundraiser in November of 1918. Graphic shows a female Y.M.C.A. officer holding a stack of books in one hand and a cup of coffee in the other. (2 copies)
Advertising poster for the United War Work Campaign in support of the Y.W.C.A. Graphic shows a woman in work clothes holding an airplane in one hand and a bomb in the other. The message at the bottom says, "Care for her through the Y.W.C.A."
Propaganda poster featuring four illustrations of women from the Red Cross assisting soldiers. The largest graphic at the bottom of the poster portrays a Red Cross nurse assisting a wounded soldier write a letter home.
Poster depicting an image of Marshal Ferdinand Foch, the Commander in Chief of the Allied Armies.
An explanation for Americans as to why the country entered into the war, and why the conflict continues. Offers a list of publications that provide this information.
Propaganda poster illustrating a group of soldiers carrying their weapons while running through a field.
Recruitment poster for the American Air Service. Features a large graphic of an orange arrow pointing upward, and a photograph of mechanics working on a plane. Local Note - due to this poster's large physical size, it is stored at the end of the collection
Poster issued by the National Canners Association to encourage American citizens to help can the crops to be sent to troops overseas. Graphic shows depiction of Uncle Sam with two teenagers.
Government issued poster endorsing the practice of growing and canning one's own produce in order to conserve food for the soldiers. Graphic shows a mother and daughter in matching aprons canning various foods.
Poster issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to reassure the public that the land is still producing plenty of food. Graphic shows a healthy American family in front of a background featuring scenes of full grain silos and other depictions of prosperity
Government issued poster endorsing the practice of planting a private garden to make rations go further. Graphic shows a family working in the soil and a small child is shown looking into a basket full of vegetables.
Government issued poster for the recruitment of young Americans into the U.S. Crop Corps. Graphic shows a teen-aged boy and girl in farming clothes carrying a basket of vegetables.
Poster issued by the U.S. Public Health Service to serve as a reminder to farming communities to check their local water supply. Graphic shows a small boy drinking water from a private well.
Advertising poster for the U.S. Crop Corps to encourage young Americans to help the war effort by becoming Victory Farm volunteers. Graphic shows a boy and girl smiling and carrying farming tools.
Poster issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture for the endorsement of growing one's own fruits and vegetables. Beneath the title appears the slogan, "Food Will Win the War and Write the Peace." Also appearing at the bottom of the poster is the message
Advertising poster for the Women's Land Army to encourage women across America to join in growing crops in place of farmers who enlisted in the military.
Government issued poster illustrating the need for fishing companies to catch more fish in support of the war effort. Graphic shows fishermen hauling buckets of fish onto a wooden dock.
Government issued poster featuring an illustration of nursery rhyme characters Jack Sprat and his wife holding up a clean platter above the words "Don't Waste Food."
Government issued poster encouraging citizens to donate waste fats to their local meat dealer in order to use them in gunpowder production. Graphic shows soldiers positioning an enormous gun toward the viewer.
Government issued poster encouraging citizens to donate waste fats to their local meat dealer in order to use them in the production of explosives. Graphic shows a skillet pouring grease into an explosion with bombs coming out of it. (2 copies)
Government issued poster advertising different ways to prepare homes for winter in order to conserve fuel for the troops. Graphic shows illustration of a house with conservation suggestions listed to the left.
Poster issued by the Solid Fuels Administration For War telling the public to order coal early for winter due to the scarcity of fuel caused by the war. Graphic shows a cartoon depiction of a penguin with a shovel and a red scarf shivering in the snow.
Government issued poster instructing the public to dress warmly indoors and try to avoid getting sick in order to conserve fuel. Graphic shows a pair of red long underwear holding a large yellow sign.
Government issued poster advertising different ways to prepare homes for winter in order to conserve fuel for the troops. Graphic shows small illustrations of scenes demonstrating ways to save fuel with directions printed to the right.
Poster issued by the Solid Fuels Administration For War telling the public to order coal early for winter due to the scarcity of fuel caused by the war. Graphic shows an empty store room with a shovel in the corner and the last few pieces of coal arranged
Government issued poster advertising different ways to prepare homes for winter in order to conserve fuel for the troops. Graphic shows a couple of mean weather-proofing a house. Near the bottom of the page is the message, "Act now...while men and materials
Poster issued by the U.S. Coal Consumers' Counsel telling the public to order coal early for next winter due to the scarcity of fuel caused by the war.
Government issued poster giving the American public seven different ways to conserve fuel during the winter and fight waste in order to help the war effort.
Poster graphic shows two cartoon scenes set in a butcher shop, one "without rationing" and one "with rationing." In the former, a woman is offered a single pork chop, while another customer leaves the shop laden with packages. In the latter, both women, p
Government issued poster used to warn American citizens to pay no more than legal prices and use their ration stamps to eliminate black markets. Graphic shows a giant thumb squashing a small scowling green man (representing black markets) under a ration s
Government issued poster used to encourage American citizens to conserve their personal resources so that troops overseas will have enough. Message at the bottom reads, "Rationing Gives You Your Fair Share." Graphic shows a smiling soldier holding up a tin
Official OPA information poster showing picture illustrations of exactly how to use ration tokens to purchase food with the reassuring phrase at the bottom: "Rationing and Price Control mean A Fair Share at A Fair Price."
Government issued poster giving four ways for Americans to conserve material resources to be used in the war effort. Graphic shows a soldier lying down with a gun, poised to fire.
Government issued poster showing the need for scrap metal donations. Graphic shows an arm ascending from behind a barn and clenching pieces of old equipment in its fist.
Government issued poster listing needed materials for the war effort with a special emphasis on separating different types of metal.
Government issued poster reminding the audience that trucks and tires must last until victory. Graphic shows a backdrop of soldiers marching and a woman carrying parcels and groceries in the foreground. (2 copies)
A photograph shows a crowded train filled with unhappy travelers. The poster reminds its audience that unnecessary travel interferes with the war effort. (2 copies)
Government issued poster composed of four cartoons, each depicting travelers with different excuses for traveling. Poster serves as a reminder that only war-related travel is appropriate. (2 copies)
Government issued poster showing a train station filled with traveling soldiers reminds citizens that transportation services should first be reserved for the military and asks the question, "Is YOUR trip necessary?"
Government issued poster warning American citizens to donate their waste paper to the war effort rather than burning it. Graphic shows a metal garbage can filled with burning paper materials.
Advertisement for the U.S. Victory Waste Paper Campaign showing the need for paper to make packages containing blood plasma for wounded soldiers. Graphic shows a waste basket emptying out paper and the resulting plasma box.
Poster advertising the need to give good quality books to soldiers overseas with a special emphasis on giving away books, even those that one wants to keep. Graphic shows a stream of books being released from hands above and floating down to smiling soldi
Government issued poster with inspirational quote by President Franklin D. Roosevelt illustrating the point that books are powerful weapons. Graphic shows Nazi soldiers burning piles of books in front of a giant figure of a book that seems to be made of s
Advertising poster for the Army Conservation Project showing a smiling man dressing in front of a mirror, being sure to use all his mismatched articles of clothing.
Government issued poster listing ways to conserve utilities at home in the areas of electricity, communications, water, and transportation. Small illustrations appear next to conservation suggestions.
Advertisement for the United National Clothing Collection for Overseas War Relief being held during the month of April. Graphic shows two children dressed in rags.
Government issued poster encouraging Americans to use household goods as long as possible to allow more resources for the war effort. Graphic shows a woman mending a man's jeans as he fixes a lawn mower. (2 copies)
Government issued poster encouraging Americans to take better care of their tires in order to conserve rubber. Graphic shows soldiers flying over the road with the message, "They've got more important places to go than you!..."
Poster issued by the Official U.S. Treasury to advertise the purchasing of War Bonds. Graphic shows a soldier waving a large American flag.
Poster issued by the Official U.S. Treasury to advertise the purchasing of War Bonds. Graphic shows the face of a little girl.
Official U.S. Treasury poster issued to advertise the purchasing of War Bonds. Graphic shows a fist full of money in front of the torch hand of the Statue of Liberty.
Government issued poster advertising the need for Americans to buy war bonds. Graphic depicts Uncle Sam in the clouds waving the American flag and pointing the way for troops on the ground.
Government issued poster advertising the need for Americans to buy war bonds. Graphic shows American children playing on the grass with the shadow of a Nazi symbol surrounding them.
Government issued poster advertising the need for Americans to buy war bonds. Graphic shows a farmer and his children walking through wheat fields. Quote at the bottom reads, "Make Every Market Day Bond Day." (2 copies)
Official U.S. Treasury poster advertising the 7th War Loan. Graphic taken from Associated Press photograph showing U.S. Marines at Iwo Jima holding up the American flag.
Poster advertising the School Savings Service, a way for children to raise money for the war effort. Graphic shows tanks and airplanes moving over the battle field.
Government issued poster encouraging citizens to buy U.S. War Savings Bonds and Stamps. Included is a quote from President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Graphic shows an American flag flying in the breeze.
Advertising poster for the USO, saying that it is a big part of the National War Fund as well as the United Community Campaign. Graphic shows a soldier leaning out of a window seeming to be calling out to the viewer.
Government issued poster in memory of the U.S.S. Dorado to encourage citizens to buy extra bonds from 5th War Loan. Graphic shows sailors keeping watch on the decks of a U.S. Navy submarine.
Government issued poster encouraging American citizens to buy war bonds in support of troops overseas. Graphic shows a soldier waving farewell out of a ship porthole. (2 copies)
Poster advertising the need for Americans to buy more war bonds. Graphic shows a soldier who lost a leg being welcomed home by his sweetheart. The message at the bottom reads, "Is it a sacrifice to buy bonds?"
54 x 71 cm. Color. Poster promoting the purchase of war bonds. The graphic is a portrait of a soldier.
Official U.S. Treasury poster issued to encourage American citizens to buy war bonds. Graphic shows an elderly European woman in tears seated in front of the bombed-out ruins of her home.
Advertising poster for the V-Mail service to American soldiers. It is described as "private, reliable, patriotic." Graphic shows a young woman smiling as she writes a letter to her soldier overseas.
Advertising poster for the V-Mail service to American soldiers. Poster advertises "the letters that travel on film", "easy to use, surest, fastest, and most patriotic." Citizens are instructed to pick up V-Mail letter forms at local post offices and stations
Poster issued by the Office for Emergency Management features the American flag in order to boost the morale of workers and increase war production. (2 copies)
Poster issued by the Office for Emergency Management to boost the morale of factory workers by showing the parallel between their jobs and that of the soldiers on the battle field. Graphic shows a worker with a rivet gun next to a soldier with a machine g
Poster issued by the Office for Emergency Management meant to encourage factory workers by showing that they are the answer to the problems of war. Graphic shows a large gloved hand tightening the "O" on "Production", which is shaped like a bolt.
Poster issued by the Office of War Information to show that even America's fishing industry is working for the war effort. Graphic shows fishermen hauling in nets filled with fish.
Poster issued by the Office to War Information to boost public morale by listing battle sites and giving the message that America has only just begun to fight. Graphic shows a soldier leading the charge with gun in hand.
A message from the President of the United States to the people concerning negative attitudes toward those considered non-Americans because of race or ancestry. The message states clearly that "Americanism is a matter of the mind and heart" and all citizens
Poster issued by the Office of War Information giving practical tips for those on the home front who want to help the war effort. Graphic shows the window of a home with a service flag hanging up and a sticker with the words "This is a V Home" printed on
Poster issued by the Office of War Information to show the relation between the soldier and the factory worker in their mutual aim to fight for the "people's cause." Graphic shows three arms thrust upward, one with a rifle, one with a large wrench, and on
Poster issued by the Office for War Information showing the parallel between those who fought in the Revolutionary war in 1778 with those fighting in 1943. Graphic shows World War II soldiers marching past the figures of Revolutionary War heroes.
Small recruiting pamphlet for the U.S. Marine Corps Women's Reserve, featuring details on what members will wear and learn about. Most importantly, the job of female marines was to free male marines to fight in the conflict.
Recruitment poster for the U.S. Marine Corps, Women's Reserve. Graphic shows the head and shoulders of a woman in uniform.
Recruitment poster for the U.S. Army Nurse Corps. Graphic shows a nurse caring for a soldier in a hospital bed.
Recruitment poster for the U.S. Army. Edges have apparently been trimmed, removing some of the text. Graphic shows a soldier listening to a radiogram announcement with new enlistment privileges listed on the right.
Recruiting flyer for the U.S. Army is decorated with stars and stripes and "Please Hang Up" appears at the bottom.
Large banner cut into three pieces with the slogan, "Keep'Em Flying" printed lengthwise.
Recruitment poster for the U.S. Army featuring the famous slogan "Keep'em Flying!" as well as a poem written by Jack Childs. Graphic shows a collage of images of people employed in the U.S. Army. The images are arranged in such a way as to form a large fa
Red Cross recruitment poster. Graphic shows crowd of people extending their hands toward a floating red cross.
Government issued poster recruiting workers in various trades to aid the war effort. Graphic shows Uncle Sam pointing out at the audience.
U.S. Army recruitment poster. Graphic shows four soldiers marching abreast, the two in the middle carrying the American flag and the eagle crest, the two on the outside carrying rifles.
U.S. Navy recruitment poster encouraging those interested to apply at the nearest Navy Recruiting Station. Graphic shows a U.S. Navy submarine at the surface with flags flying and sailors on deck as well as a U.S. Navy vessel in the distance. (2 copies)
U.S. Navy recruitment poster. Invitation to join the service is extended to all young men between the ages of 18 and 31 who are citizens of the United States. Graphic shows an aircraft carrier leading a fleet of naval vessels with an airplane taking off f
U.S. Navy recruitment poster. Audience is invited to "steer a course for future success while serving your country in the United States Navy or the U.S. Naval Reserve." Graphic shows naval vessels on the ocean proudly flying their flags.
U.S. Navy recruitment poster specifically aimed at attracting pilots to Naval Aviation. Graphic shows a pilot climbing into the cockpit of an airplane while an officer looks out for enemy planes.
U.S. Navy recruitment poster with the message, "Your country and your liberty are in grave danger...Protect them now by joining the United States Navy or the U.S. naval Reserve." Graphic shows a sailor loading a gun.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the importance of closing a ship's hatches and doors in order to make it water-tight.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the danger of lighting a cigarette at night and alerting an enemy submarine to one's position.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the importance of wearing "flash-proof" clothes during an attack.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the danger of getting to close to the turrets while they are firing.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the importance of wearing a life jacket at all times in case of the order to abandon ship.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the consequences of being "overleave."
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show that a "part-time" look out is really aiding the enemy, or, as the poster says, being one of "Adolph's Little Helpers."
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the danger of walking on the windward side of a ship's deck.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the danger of getting washed overboard by a wave when the life lines are low.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show a two-part message. First, it shows the importance of clear communication over battle phones. Second, it shows the danger of tying gun covers too tight.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the importance of recapping the "jackbox" and keeping moisture out.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the importance of closing doors in the ship to keep it from filling with water during a torpedo attack.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the dangers of smoking in the ship.
Naval training aid utilizing cartoons to show the importance of closing doors in the ship to keep it from filling with water during an attack.
Advertising poster for the celebration of Navy Day (pre-Pearl Harbor) with the statement that "it will ever be Our First Line of Defense." Graphic shows ships, submarines, and aircraft flying overhead. (2 copies)
Naval training aid stressing the importance of focused attention when learning how to operate various types of machinery. Graphic shows a soldier being trained with his eyes focused on a particular dial.
Naval training aid showing the importance of using visual aids with the statement, "Seeing increases learning." Graphic shows an officer holding up a model of a naval vessel.
Naval training aid illustrating the concept of "leeway" by showing a ship making headway being thrown off her course by the wind, and the measure of this drift is known as the "leeway."
Naval training aid showing the size comparisons between the different types of landing craft.
Naval training aid showing the various parts and inner workings of a gun on a naval vessel.
Naval training aid showing the different parts of a naval vessel and providing the definition of those parts.
Naval training aid showing the various levels of decks on a naval vessel as well as providing a definition for each.
Naval training aid showing the process of using soundings to prevent naval vessels from running aground.
Naval training aid providing clear definitions of the different terms used in collecting soundings to measure the water's depth.
Naval training aid showing some of the inner workings of a naval vessel. Legend not provided.
Government issued poster showing the consequences of information leaked to the enemy. Graphic shows a middle-aged couple who have clearly just received news that their son was killed in action.
Poster issued by the Bureau of Public relations to be posted on military property as a warning to soldiers not to speak to loudly about secrete military information. Graphic shows a soldier talking loudly on the phone while a man in a dark coat and fedora
Poster issued by the Office of War Information warning military personnel not to discuss troop movements, ship sailings, or war equipment. Graphic shows Uncle Sam with his finger to his lips to communicate silence.
Poster issued by the Office of War Information warning those who are privy to military information not to share it carelessly, lest a soldier should die as a result. Graphic shows a white wooden cross with a helmet and utility belt draped over it.
Poster issued by the Office of War Information in cooperation with the Federal Bureau of Investigation with the aim of enlisting the help of all American citizens in reporting suspicious activity in order to stop spies and saboteurs.
Map drawn for Time magazine showing the distance, in miles, from New York to various locations around the globe.
Map drawn for Time magazine showing the life line routes for the Allies in the North Atlantic. Map also shows where Nazi ships have cut off Allied support to Scandinavia.
Naval War Map showing the movements of ships throughout the Mediterranean Sea during the war up to point when the map was made.
U.S. Government Chart showing the seven food groups with the message, "eat some food from each group...every day!" (2 copies)
Poster issued by the Office of War information to inform American citizens about government sponsored nutrition classes.
Poster issued by the War Food Administration to advertise community school lunch programs to ensure that every child would have adequate food during lunch time. Graphic shows a boy and girl playing with a baseball on the school playground with a black and
Poster issued by the Office of War Information to advertise the purchasing of war bonds featuring a Norman Rockwell illustration used in the Saturday Evening Post. Graphic shows a man standing up to speak in front of a group of people.
Poster issued by the Office of War Information to advertise the purchasing of war bonds featuring a Norman Rockwell illustration used in the Saturday Evening Post. Graphic shows a group of people praying in different ways with the message, "each according
Poster issued by the Office of War Information featuring a Norman Rockwell illustration used in the Saturday Evening Post. Graphic shows an American family Thanksgiving scene with a table laden with food and the smiling faces of those seated on the sides.
Poster issued by the Office of War Information featuring a Norman Rockwell illustration used in the Saturday Evening Post. Graphic shows parents tucking their children in to bed showing the father holding a newspaper with bad news concerning the war. (2 c
Poster issued by the Office of War Information to advertise the purchasing of war bonds featuring a Norman Rockwell illustration used in the Saturday Evening Post. Graphic shows a man standing up to speak at some kind of town meeting.
Poster issued by the Office of War Information to advertise the purchasing of war bonds featuring a Norman Rockwell illustration used in the Saturday Evening Post. Graphic shows a group of people praying in different ways with the message, "each according
Poster issued by the Office of War Information featuring a Norman Rockwell illustration used in the Saturday Evening Post. Graphic shows an American family Thanksgiving scene with a table laden with food and the smiling faces of those seated on the sides.
Poster issued by the Office of War Information featuring a Norman Rockwell illustration used in the Saturday Evening Post. Graphic shows parents tucking their children in to bed showing the father holding a newspaper with bad news concerning the war.
Poster issued by the Office of Economic Stabilization listing the seven "keys" to keep prices down. Graphic shows a depiction of Uncle Sam pointing out toward the viewer.
Poster issued by the Office of Economic Stabilization listing the seven "keys" to keep prices down. Graphic shows an attractive woman carrying bags of groceries and a ration book.
Poster issued by the Office of Economic Stabilization listing the seven "keys" to keep prices down. Graphic shows an American soldier in the Pacific with leaves tucked into his helmet and left hand giving the audience a thumbs-up.
Poster issued by the Office of Economic Stabilization listing the seven "keys" to keep prices down. Graphic shows an American housewife with a determined expression and her fist raised.
Poster issued by the Office of Economic Stabilization listing the seven "keys" to keep prices down. Graphic shows a factory worker with a smile on his face holding an envelope full of war bond slips.
Government issued poster encouraging Americans to keep the cost of living down by paying no more than ceiling prices. Graphic shows depiction of Uncle Sam pointing with a smile to a line graph showing the dramatically lower cost of living in World War II
Poster issued by the U.S. Forest Service reprinted from The American Weekly showing steps citizens could take to prevent forest fires. Graphic shows a man with an axe fighting a flaming figure of a wolf in a forest with an image of war machines in the bac
Poster issued by the U.S. Forest Service showing the danger of range fires to the meat industry and, consequently, the war effort. Graphic shows a frightened cow surrounded by flames.
Poster issued by the U.S. Forest Service communicating the fact that forest fires present a greater danger than ever at that time. Graphic shows a forest ranger calling out to the viewer.
Government issued poster giving a warning to farmers not to get injured so they could continue producing food for the war effort. Graphic shows a farmer standing next to a plow with his arm in a sling.
Advertising poster for the U.S. Army Safety Program encouraging all Americans to make safety a priority in the home, in the plant, and on the highway.
Poster issued by the War Department Safety Council to encourage Americans in the workforce to avoid injuries and to continue to aid soldiers overseas. Graphic shows a close up view of a soldier as he takes aim in the midst of exploding bombs.
Pamphlet features a poem written by an English War Saver that is modeled after Rudyard Kipling's Poem of the same name. A British flag on a pole runs along the left border. (2 copies)
Small poster issued by the Office of Facts and Figures showing the current members of the United Nations fighting alongside America. Graphic shows the flags of the United Nations with the Statue of Liberty situated among them.
A poem written in honor of the resistance of the Polish people against the Nazis as they were invaded. Background painting shows a Polish man and woman standing amongst the rubble of their city with sunlight breaking through the distant clouds.
Poster issued by the Office of Facts and Figures to distinguish friend from foe by showing a picture of an Ethiopian soldier with the phrase, "He fights for Freedom."
Poster issued by the Office of Facts and Figures to distinguish friend from foe by showing a picture of a Chinese soldier with the phrase, "He fights for Freedom."
Poster issued by the Office of Facts and Figures to distinguish friend from foe by showing a picture of a Dutch Sailor with the phrase, "He fights for Freedom."
A collection of excerpts from Adolf Hitler's speeches from February 10, 1933 to September 1, 1939. Poster demonstrates the gradual change of Hitler's objectives as Europe begins to fall under attack by Nazi Germany.
Poster issued by French government to help prevent the leak of confidential information to the enemy. Graphic shows cartoon depiction of two people sharing information with a large shadow leaning in. English Translation: "Silence, the enemy awaits your co
Poster illustrated by Leopoldo Méndez showing Yugoslavians attacking Nazis with the main aggressor wielding an axe.
Poster informing the public that while two years ago Britain stood alone, at this moment four-fifths of the world was united with them against the Axis powers. Graphic shows a soldier with a gun by his side standing on a field covered with barbed wire.
Poster issued by the Canadian government featuring an excerpt from citation awarding Victoria Cross to Lt.-Col. Merritt, South Saskatchewan Regt., Dieppe, on August 19, 1942. The quote tells of the heroic actions of a soldier who helped cover the withdraw
Canadian poster encouraging citizens to donate better quality of scrap materials than what can be found in the "scrap heap." Graphic shows a gear wheel following a track.
Poster issued by United China Relief to encourage American citizens to make contributions to the National War Fund in support of Chinese allies in need.
Propaganda poster featuring a female warrior (Marianne figure) highlighted with a red and blue backdrop.
Poster with a graphic in the upper left of a boy writing at a desk.
Propaganda poster announcing the meeting of delegates from England, United States, Soviet Union, and France.
Propaganda poster featuring a graphic of three goods needed to help soldiers fighting on the front: cigarettes, textiles, and money.
Public announcement to the people of Paris about the state of the war. Includes two stripes in upper left-hand corner, one red and the other blue.
Announcement of a grand gala under the Minister of Public Works and Transport.
Propaganda poster featuring a message about Allied armies marching on Berlin, as well as a request for individuals to join the France-U.R.S.S. Association.
Propaganda poster explaining the necessity that France finishes the war.
Propaganda poster presenting statements from the National Association of Victims of Nazism.
Poster featuring two hexagonal graphics in red, blue, and black with the words "1er Mai, Fête National du Travail" along the perimeter. The top image depicts a labrys (two-sided ax) and the bottom image portrays lilies crossed with another flower. Poster
Propaganda poster depicting an arrow pointing from an image of a village to a camp, surrounded by illustrations of people, books, board games, musical instruments, and a map of France.
Propaganda poster featuring two images of the remains from the destruction of the village Oradour sur Glane.
Announcement to the people of Paris with information about Berlin and Joseph Stalin.
Propaganda poster from the Office of the General Confederation of Labor.
Poster listing contributors and requesting participants for the foundation of the Encyclopedia of the French Renaissance.
Propaganda poster explaining the conditions of the French Renaissance.
An advertisement for an event held for the benefit of social work organizations. Includes two stripes in upper left corner and two in the bottom right, one red and the other blue.
Announcement for the first National Congress of the Union of French Women. Includes two prints.
Poster publicizing a grand evening event to be organized by the National Association of Victims of Nazism. Lists speakers and entertainers for the program.
Propaganda poster featuring a list of centers in the Seine-et-Oise department for the exchange of textiles.
Propaganda poster with a graphic of a woman and two children at home while a soldier opens a package of goods received from home.
French poster encouraging people to enroll in a German language course. Includes a mixture of cursive decorative text and bolded block text.
Poster directed toward French peasants and their protests.
Propaganda poster depicting two women joining hands in the shadows of two men.
Features a person in poor health presenting a wooden boat with a red cross on its sail.
Propaganda poster supporting the preservation of family in the Centre de Palaiseau.
Depicts the image of a young child transfixed by something located above it.
French poster alerting Parisians about the Republican Party of Renovation. Includes a single blue stripe in the top left-hand corner.
Propaganda poster featuring three figures; two men clasping hands, one in a blue uniform, the other in white, and a woman dressed in red. All three figures appear to be in action and moving in a forward motion.
Poster illustrating three soldiers on the frontline of battle receiving Christmas packages.
Propaganda poster in red, blue, and white, reading Vive la France.
Features information on the establishment and revision of the electoral lists, including the corresponding dates for persons based upon the first letter of their name.
The announcement of a grand meeting to be held on May 29, 1945 to discuss the perilous state of the republic.
Propaganda poster directed toward workers, consumers, merchants, and housewives about scandals and provocations in France. Split between two sheets of paper.
French poster that focuses on the text, Front National, with the use of contrasting colors. The dates and location of the congress are emphasized within a black border.
Propaganda poster presenting a list of intentions for electors and voters to view, with the purpose of assisting France's war effort. Consists of two strips on both the top and bottom of the poster, one red and the other blue.
Propaganda poster depicting appeals made by the Federation of Tenants of the Paris Region toward the people and government of France.
A poster directed toward women, featuring statements about their duty in the war.
Propaganda poster drawing the attention of merchants and artisans, informing them about a grand meeting organized by the French Communist Party.
Propaganda poster depicting an announcement about three officers of Maubeuge who are heroes of the Resistance in France.
Propaganda poster publicizing the Secretary General Maurice Thorez's speech directed toward women. The date and location of the event are emphasized with a black backdrop.
Announcement of the date, time, and location of a meeting aimed to eradicate the Hitlerism of Germany and return prisoners and deportees to France.
Propaganda poster addressing the issue of increased amounts in rent payments.
Propaganda poster featuring the date, time, and location of a speech held by the Socialist Party.
Propaganda poster presenting a program discussing political and social liberation.
Features a graphic of a piece of meat, a loaf of bread, and a package, all surrounded by the red outline of a crab (cancer).
Propaganda poster with an enlarged photograph of Marshal Petain and a red graphic of women and children grouped together against his heart.
Graphic of a magnifying glass enlarging texts from the newspaper Journal de la Bourse. Located in the lower right-hand side of the poster is a small image of a helmet detailed with a blue circle and a red outer circle. The back of the poster depicts a po
Propaganda poster announcing the destruction of buildings and the demand for rebuilding. Split between two sheets of paper.
Propaganda poster featuring a Socialist Party request for individuals to fight in the war on trusts.
Propaganda poster announcing a call for officers and noncommissioned officers of the reserve. Text is bordered with red and blue lines.
Declaration that the people of France accept with dignity those returning from Germany.
Propaganda poster featuring a photograph of an industrial building against a blue background.
Propaganda poster publicizing a meeting to be held by the Local Committee of Liberation. Includes two stripes in upper left-hand corner, one red and the other blue.
Propaganda poster requesting the youths of France to participate in the war effort. Depicted in the upper left-hand corner is a symbol above the letters "JFL" within an outline of France. Includes a border of interlacing red and blue lines.
Propaganda poster directed toward young men and girls of the Paris region.
Lists the sixteen Principles of the Community. Includes a decorative red and blue border and two identical graphics of a red, white, and blue labrys (two-sided ax) with five stars located above and below the list.
Propaganda poster showing an image of a train carriage, filled with French infantryman waving through the open windows. Main body of text is placed within a blue square with rounded corners.
Propaganda poster addressed toward the prisoners of Canton Remalard, announcing the presentation of "Comme au Camp.
Map of the world with areas highlighted in yellow, red, and blue, indicating the expansion of the French Empire. Includes three separate boxes color coded with the map, listing the names and kilometers of the countries and cities under French control.
Propaganda poster featuring a graphic of Philippe Henriot, a French politician and Minister in the French government.
Propaganda poster depicting photographs of ten men, each with his name, nationality, and number of crimes listed below his image. Additional images featured below the ten men include train derailments, weapons, and wounded and dead men. Poster was displa
A graphic of a man in front of industrial buildings with red smoky surroundings. Located in the lower right-hand side of the poster is a small image of a helmet detailed with a blue circle within a red circle. The back of the poster depicts a portion of
Propaganda poster portraying an image of a young man throwing a discus while more young men and women playing tug-of-war in the background. Located in the lower right-hand side of the poster is a small image of a helmet detailed with a blue circle and a
Propaganda poster illustrating the head of a female warrior (Marianne figure) in the foreground of a large crowd of people. Located in the upper left-hand side of the poster is a small image of a helmet detailed with a blue circle within a red circle. Th
Propaganda poster depicting a graphic of nine young men and women, with the two in the foreground running on either side of the line of youths behind them. Located in the lower right-hand side of the poster is a small image of a helmet detailed with a bl
French poster displaying an image of a hand holding a 100 currency note that is being cut in half by a pair of scissors. Located in the lower right-hand side of the poster is a small image of a helmet detailed with a blue circle and a red outer circle. T
Features two sets of snakes, one red and the other blue, intertwining around a lit torch with wings on either side of the flame. The bottom middle portion of the poster contains a graphic of an early boat waving a red and blue flag. Main text is placed w
Black and white. Poster broadcasting to the public a reward of one million francs.
Propaganda poster portraying a hand holding up a single key that is illuminated in white against a blue background.
Graphic of a doctor examining a young man with a stethoscope. Both figures are highlighted in white against a blue backdrop and medical equipment. Body of text is placed within a rectangle of a darker shade of blue.
Propaganda poster depicting a graphic of Philippe Petain in uniform and seated at a table.
Propaganda poster directed toward the people of Paris, warning them about the still current existence of the enemy, racism, and fascism.
Directed toward all prisoners and the families of prisoners from d'Epinay-sur-Seine, inviting them to an evening theatre performance.
Poster welcoming all returned prisoners and the women, children, and relatives of prisoners to a theatrical prisoner representation.
Publicizing a performance for all returned prisoners of Neuilly-sure-Seine and their families.
French war poster inviting all returned prisoners from Levallois and their families to a theatrical performance.
A public notice, written in both German and French, about the shooting of ten men. The ten names are organized in a numbered list.
Propaganda poster portraying a patriotic male figure carrying a flag inscribed with C.G.T. and broken chains in the other hand against a yellow backdrop. Below him is a fallen soldier, a man dressed in all white with his arm raised, and an indistinct group
Public announcement about the surrender of Nazi Germany.
Patriotic poster of a soldier and a woman dancing together. The woman's dress is decorated with red, blue, and white stripes, reflecting the colors of the man's uniform, the background, and the colors of the text.
French, anti-communist propaganda poster depicting a worker gripping a hammer as he protects his wife and child from the Bolshevik bear.
Propaganda poster illustrating a siren in front of three stripes in the colors of the French flag. Below is a bloodlike splash of red behind the Soviet hammer and sickle.
" Promotional poster for Charlie Chaplin's "The Great Dictator. Features a drawing of Chaplin's head above a frenzied crowd of cartoon characters rushing toward three entryways.
Propaganda poster directed toward French women, encouraging them to unite and perform their duty in order to end the war.
Propaganda poster depicting two men dressed in brown and white wearing arm bands with the French colors. Behind them waves the French flag and they stand upon the words Exposition F.F.I which are designed to characterize mountains overlooking trees and b
Poster portraying a graphic of a white, pink head looking upward toward three planes flying above, two green and one white. Upon the forehead of the face are three rings in the French colors placed within each other. Emerging from the top, right-hand side
Propaganda war poster announcing the First Congress of the National Front of the Isle of France. Includes a decorative border of red and blue bands.
Poster directed toward the youth of France to acquire individuals interested in the Republican Youth Union of France. Depicts drawings of two well-dressed, smiling youths, a man and a woman.
Announcement of a remembrance event intended for the families of the deceased and deported men of the P.T.T. resistance. The majority of the poster is torn in half. Features numerous men performing various duties, all placed below a visual echo of the 'v
A public notice, written in both German and French, announcing the provisions recalled to the public with the penalty against anyone who disobeys bolded and underlined. All of the text is surrounded by a red border and the notices are divided by two red
Propaganda poster representing the fight for freedom against Bolshevism through two cartoon figures in conflict. The man symbolizing freedom is wearing blue pants with a scene of green hills and a small house behind him, while he resists the chains of the
Depicts an image of Joseph Stalin in the upper left-hand corner.
Encourages the involvement of France's female youth. Poster portrays a large drawing of the head of a smiling young woman, flanked on either side by photographs of girls performing yard duties.
A collage of images of banks and electricity companies with gold highlights. Located in the lower right-hand side of the poster is a small image of a helmet detailed with a blue circle and a red outer circle. The back of the poster depicts a portion of a
Propaganda poster with a graphic of a white figure wearing a helmet decorated as a face and raising his fist that is clenched around a band of fabric striped with the French colors. Around his upheld wrist is a shackle attached to a broken chain and next
Publicizing an event organized by the Association of Prisoners of War (sixth section) in the Theatre National de l'Odeon.
Propaganda poster encouraging youths to invest their time in the learning of a useful trade. Illustrates a young boy sitting on a crate, holding a hammer, as a he places his chin on his finger in a pondering state. Behind him are shadows of other young b
Poster featuring an image of an open landscape with cross-shaped grave markers scattered in the background. In the foreground, are two grave markers with military helmets placed on top of them, and engraved with the years 1940 and 1939.
Advertisement of a meeting held by the French Communist party directed toward French merchants and artisans.
Propaganda poster with a graphic of a map of France against a black backdrop. Numerous cities are listed on the map, each one with a red flame painted to appear as if the city is burning.
Public announcement about an accumulation of one million tons of coal in Pas-de-Calais, France due to a lack of transportation.
Propaganda poster announcing a celebration of the 27th anniversary of the Red Army. Includes a graphic a red star at the top of the poster and a red and blue border.
Encourages the French people to fight for freedom and liberty.
Poster explaining to the people of Paris, that three French officers, heroes of the Resistance, are being held in captivity for executing two traitors.
Public invitation for an event held on June 1 by the municipality and the sixth committee of local release, discussing liberation. Includes two stripes, red and blue, in the upper left corner and the lower right corner.
Propaganda poster featuring an event to commemorate the elimination of fascism and traitors in France.
Public notice of a rally held on May 31, 1945 arguing for the immediate punishment of Marshal Petain, traitors, and war criminals.
Propaganda poster featuring the word "Ivry" in dripping blood red letters above a graphic of a man's face, holding up bloodied hands, as he views countless grave markers striped in red and blue. Presented by the National Association of Friends of Snipers
A tribute held by the National Council of Resistance, the French Union University, the Association of Friends of F.T.P.F., and the National Union of Intellectuals. Includes the date, time, and location in a bordered box in the upper left-hand corner.
Portrays a map of Europe with a photograph placed over France depicting people observing the deceased. Three red arrows point from the city names listed to the left of the map, to their locations. A Soviet Union flag protrudes from Europe, its shadow falls.
Propaganda poster featuring a graphic of a man laboring to place a white stone in a wall that is protecting from the flames on the other side.
Directed toward the youth of France. Features a graphic of two men in white shorts leaping into the air after a ball, with a large shovel pushed into the earth in the foreground.
Poster featuring an illustration of articles of clothing in the shape they would take if worn by a person for the purpose of announcing the recovery of textiles.
An anti-British propaganda poster depicting Joan of Arc, her wrists bound in chains, above a burning city. The backdrop is red with a series of black clouds, while the city is lit up with yellow and orange flames.
Propaganda poster encouraging French men to dedicate their time to working in Germany. Portrays a worker with an anvil and toothed wheel in front of the silhouette of the Eiffel Tower and a factory.
Poster featuring two men shaking hands, one wears clothes intended for labor work and the other is in a suit, with a train in the background. In the bottom right corner is a symbol of a labrys surrounded by the words Information de l'Etat Francais.
Illustrates a map of the world with France located at the center. Graphics of men, women, ships, animals, flags, etc. are placed on the map, paired with the year and a brief description of the event.
Announcement of a competition to recruit police secretaries.
Poster illustrating a man along the right side, smiling and wearing a blue shirt and cap. In the bottom middle portion is a symbol of a labrys surrounded by the words Information de l'Etat Francais.
Announcement of a grand event intended to assist the prisoners of war from Juvisy, Viry, and Draveil, France. The lower portion of the poster consists of a graphic of two men participating in water skiing.
Poster directed toward students, announcing a meeting of young intellectuals organized by the Friends of "Present Time.
Propaganda poster publicizing to the public the motto and goals of the Renovation Republican Party.
Poster announcing an evening event for the benefit of the Mutual Aid Centre. Split between two sheets of paper. Two copies of top portion of the poster.
Directed toward the mothers and women of Paris, with the intention of encouraging them to attend a grand meeting.
Seine poster alerting the public that prisoners of war are returning and what can be done for them.
An appeal to French men and women about the war effort, including a list of movements.
A notice for a commemoration held by the Italian Committee of National Liberation, the Accession of the Italian League of Human Rights, the Communist Party, the Christian Democrat party, and the Liberal party.
Poster announcing a commemoration held by the Italian Socialist Party, the Italian Action Party, the Italian Communists in France, the Democrat Chretien Party, and the Liberal Party.
Information about a grand meeting organized by the Union of Employees of Hotels, Cafes, Restaurants, Broths, and Canteens in the Paris Region. Lining the left side of the poster are eight photographs of men who are labeled as activists who paid with theirs
A grand meeting held by the National Association of Victims of Nazism, the Secours Populaire de France, the French Assistance, and the National Movement Against Racism. The names of the three concentration camps are separated from the text with the outline
A parade at the Statue of the Republic in commemoration of the February 12, 1934 fascist victory.
Propaganda poster encouraging the public's trust in gas and electricity.
French poster publicizing a grand gala consisting of singing, dancing, and orchestra playing to benefit former Soviet prisoners. Located in the bottom center of the poster is a graphic of a performance by Ann Laury and Jean Guien.
Public announcement of a new party, the Renovation Republican Party (P.R.R..), and an explanation of the party's program.
Propaganda poster featuring information about an Antifascist and Republican gathering, inviting all who identify with the Bastille Nation.
Propaganda poster portraying a photograph of Philippe Petain and Adolf Hitler shaking hands, and an image of a ditch filled with dead bodies next to text explaining that the cost of that handshake was human lives.
Poster with a graphic in the far left portion of Maurice Thorez, French Politian who served as vice premier of France.
A notice of the 74th anniversary of the Paris Commune under Maurice Thorez and Jacques Duclos.
A commemoration of five men who died for France, Georges Politzer, Jacques Solomon, Jacques Decour, Felix Cadras, and Arthur Dalidet.
French poster publicizing a grand meeting of prisoners and deportees organized by the French Communist Party, in which Georgette Cadras and Andre Marty are speakers.
Encourages housewives, mothers, manual workers, and intellectuals to acknowledge the poor quality and insufficient rations of bread by attending a grand meeting organized by the National Federation of Food Workers, Hotels, Cafes, and Restaurants.
An announcement about the eighth Grand Cross of Humanity event. Includes an image of two men running, each with a number attached to their front.
Propaganda poster featuring five photographs placed diagonally of Maurice Thorez, Jacques Duclos, Marcel Cachin, Andre Marty, and Benoit Frachon. Additionally, the poster is split into three diagonal sections that are red, white, and blue.
Poster announcing the funeral of Pierre Semard. Above a photograph of Semard in the upper middle portion of the poster, he is described as an activist, patriot, and great Frenchman. There are two stripes in the upper right-hand corner, one red and the ot
Calls the attention of French workers to the goal of gaining an independent and prosperous France. Symbols in the top corners consist of two circles with the text, Confederation Generale du Travail: Bien-etre-et-Liberte, and the image of two hands shakin
Depicts a bill worth five French francs
Features a map identifying prisoner of war camps located in Germany, Poland, and Russia (U.S.S.R.). Includes a legend and list of the camps.
Invitation to all families of prisoners and repatriated prisoners from Nogent-sur-Marne to a theatrical event.
Poster regarding the Sixth Arrondissement of Paris.
French poster directed toward prisoners and deportees from the University.
Publicizing a grand public meeting held in the Palais de la Mutualite, concerning secularism in France.
Propaganda poster discussing the Republicans of France and events dating from July 10, 1940 and October 17, 1944.
Propaganda poster exclaiming that the black market scandal must come to an end because it is starving the people of Paris.
Announcement of a grand gala held in the Grand Amphitheatre de la Sorbonne for the benefit of the Commune martyre de Frevent (Pas-de-Calais) sinistree.
List of three reminders from the National Front.
Poster publicizing a grand gala organized by the Union of French Women of the Sixth District under the patronage of Madame Mallet.
A notice directed toward the population of Paris discussing schools and the need to defend education.
A grand reunion of students involved in the Front National Etudiant at the Salle des Fetes.
White background with brown and green text, and red images. Features photographs of the destruction of La Mairie, La rue Saint-Martin, La Place principale (Place Dumont-d'Urville), La Rue principale, and L'Eglise Saint-Sauveur. Additionally, depicts an i
Encourages men to join the French Army of Armistice. Includes two graphics of patriotic labrys decorated with stars and the colors red, white, and, blue.
Announcement from the Association of Prisoners of War Department of the Seine about an approaching election.
Features text, including a short list under the heading Avez-vous Pense? In the upper left-hand corner are red and blue stripes.
French poster portraying two young men, one dressed as a laborer, the other a soldier. Marching next to the men is a young woman dressed professionally.
Poster directed toward the women of France, publicizing the appearance of Maurice Thorez, Secretary General of the French Communist Party.
Propaganda poster dedicated to text, including the insistence of a gathering for the crushing of Fascism, for Democracy, for the Republic, and for France. Includes a symbol in the upper right-hand corner of a helmet detailed with a blue circle within a r
A public notice, written in both German and French, discussing workers leaving the sites of the Todt Organization.
French poster directed toward the habitants of the sixteenth administrative district of Paris.
Notice of a truck of packages leaving for the front of La Rochelle. Includes a list of contributors and the amount of parcels gifted to soldiers.
Showing of the "La Nation en Marche" in the Paris concert hall, Salle Pleyel. Consists of an original sheet with a longer piece pasted at the top of the poster providing the location and time of the event.
French poster consisting of a list of dates and the corresponding information for the campaign of "Amitie et Solidarite" ("Friendship and Solidarity").
Poster presented by the Local Committee of Liberation of the 6th District and the United Forces of the Patriotic Youth, describing military preparations. Two French flags are crossed in the middle of the upper portion of the poster. The backside features
Public notice of a great discussion of foreign policy regarding Germany held at the Salle Pleyel in Rue Saint-Honore.
An appeal to the French women of the sixth district of Paris regarding the recovery of wool.
Propaganda poster making an appeal against secularism in France and announcing a grand public meeting at the Palace of Mutualite.
Poster addressing the people of France, arguing that the war is not over.
Encourages young men to register for the course titled, "Military Preparation."
Poster announcing an event for the benefit of the ruined city, Conde-sur-Noireau. Listed below the title, the poster informs readers that there will be entertainment, good deals, and good action.
Poster illustrating two men, one dark skinned, the other light skinned, joining hands as they raise their arms. The men are facing away from the viewers as they stand upon islands with the outline of France and the French colors in the background.
French poster dedicated to text. Directed toward the people of Paris from the Anti-Fascist League, discussing lieutenants Vallin and Barrachin.
Notice about a grand public conference featuring Mr. Damalas, a Doctor in Law.
A list of candidates from the Renovation Republican Party for an upcoming election. Includes Petiteau Marcel, Varennes Marie-Jean, Desplats Jean, Soulie Andre, M. Dault, Delarbre Henri, Wargnier Pierre, Laurent Blanche, Guerin Eugene, Robinet Andre, Carc
Poster advertising an event for children from families affected by the war. Includes four boxes along the left side, listing important dates next to the explained attractions.
Depicts a list of the names of 14 individuals significant to the Renovation Republican Party; Jean Camp, Benjamin Graulle, Edouard Lassalle, Pierre Beauvais, Denise Favereau, Alexandre Thirion, Pierre Bauzou, Yves Chabrol, Suzanne de Parrel, Pierre Betei
French poster directed toward the habitants of the sixth Arrondissement of Paris from the C.L.L. (Comite Local de la Liberation du VIe Arrondissement).
Announcement of an assembly providing information on the Renaissance in France. Features two diagonal strips running from the top right corner, to the bottom left corner. One is red, and the other is blue.
Propaganda poster informing viewers to place a flag in their windows on the Day of the Liberation of Paris, April 2, 1945.
Notice from the C.L.L. (Comite Local de Liberation du VIe Arrondissement) about a unanimously adopted declaration.
Announcement about the campaign of "Amitie et Solidarite" ("Friendship and Solidarity"). Provides a list of significant dates and information about the events.
Provides a list of dates for when the Union des Mouvements de Resistance will hold public meetings before the municipal elections on April 29, 1945.
Invitation to the public to attend a grand public meeting on April 23, 1945, prior to the municipal elections.
Poster announcing to the public a restriction on electricity. Features a list of penalties and fines.
Propaganda poster addressing the people of France and authorized by Roger Langeron, Georges Pichat, and Charles Magny. Includes a quote from Philippe Petain dating from November 1940.
French poster presenting five images of Philippe Petain, each numbered and consisting of a short caption underneath. Lining the two photographs on the far left of the poster, are two stripes, one red, and the other blue.
Propaganda poster portraying a man, emphasized with his white coloring, depressed facial expression, and empty hands, standing in front of two other men who are colorful and busy working.
A map of the world printed by Le Petit Parisien, a French newspaper during the French Third Republic.
Poster illustrating three people surrounding Samuel F.B. Morse as he sends the first telegraph on May 24, 1844.
A poster distributed by the Department of the Interior Bureau of Education and the Division of School Hygiene to encourage the health of children. Depicts a graphic within an oval border of two children holding hands as they spin around Includes 3 prints
Portrays an illustration of a group of starved people with a man holding out his arms to a large cross in the background. Below the image, at the bottom of the poster, are the words, "He gave himself  What will you give.
Provides confirmation that the theater was appointed by the US Government to receive messages from the Four Minute Men.
Poster with the slogan, "Get in this Game," in order to draw attention to carelessness in the store, shop, and factory that leads to injury and accidents.
Statement from George F. Cotterill to the citizens of Washington, explaining his intention to file for the Democratic nomination in the United States Senator election of 1914. Includes 3 copies.
Announcement of a cruise ship named the Empress of Scotland to depart from New York for the Mediterranean Sea on February 9, 1925.
Portrays a graphic on a red backdrop of a large brown hand holding in its palm a building with the Islamic symbol of a star and crescent located behind it.
Includes an image of a house above a quote from John Updike, an American writer and critic.
Correspondence between John Masefield and publisher J.M. Dent and Dent's associates. Typed and autographed manuscripts. Also includes printed advertisement and program for the August 1938 Oxford Summer Diversions series.
This collection includes papers and artifacts related to Alfred S. Coumbe of Spokane during his World War I service in the U.S. Navy. It includes diaries, a photograph album, loose photographs, uniforms and other textile items, and a few miscellaneous items.
Signed manuscript from Oregon City, to Isaac Leabo. Assigned by Leabo to James Fruit, February 21, 1850.
This collection contains papers of Dr. Donald Greenaway, a Professor in the Department of Hotel and Restaurant Administration at Washington State University. The collection includes papers related to his research and teaching, presentations and writings about hotel and restaurant management and marketing (some by Greenaway, and others by unidentified authors), materials related to the National Restaurant Association, and published conference proceedings.
The WSU Press records consist of administrative records such as budgets and minutes, correspondence between the Press and authors, publishing proposals and evaluations from reviewers, and chapter drafts and reviewer edits for George Frykman’s Washington State University Centennial Histories book "Creating the People’s University". These records span from 1948 to 1992. This collection also includes two undated music printing plates of Washington, My Washington and The Fight Song.
The records of the Washington State Grape Society, 1972-1981, consist of the organization's business records, correspondence, and newspaper clippings. The correspondence file of the Society comprises more than half of the records and includes orders for the annual publication, business accounts (receipts and invoices), and letters to and from other grape societies. The financial records include banking materials, invoices, and billings and covers the years 1972-1981, although they bulk largest from 1977 to 1980.
Records of the International Webern Society consist of correspondence, minutes, fiscal records, membership lists, newsletters, and programs from music performances. Principal correspondents are Peter Armstrong, Paul Hedwall, Wallace McKenzie, Hans Moldenhauer, and Robert Riseling.
Muster roll, arms lists, accounts, and other records of militia company, Captain John H. Elson, commanding, attached to the first battalion and first regiment of the Virginia Brigade in the service of the United States. Twenty-eight pages of manuscripts that are photographed, and 22 pages of typescript transcriptions.
This collection consists of Stanley Smith and Fred G. Rounds architectural drawings for the Arthur E. Drucker house on B Street in Pullman, Washington. It includes blueprints of north, south, east and west elevations; basement, first, and second floor plans; and interior, window, and entrance details.
Legislative and service bulletins and pamphlets from the Washington Education Association.
The materials primarily depict cadet life and activities, on the WSU campus and at their annual encampments, from 1900-1906, when Roy G. Adams attended. The materials were collected by Roy G. Adams; he was not the photographer for any of them. A few photos and documents come from military activities of his son, Roy M. Adams, from 1933-1942.
Correspondence, minutes, reports, budgets, recruiting information, and information regarding graduate, students, including placement of same, to and from the Department of Botany. Of particular interest is the correspondence of Winslow R. Hatch, Chairman of the Division of Biological Sciences, and early correspondence regarding the development of the Prairie Strip Administration.
Collection includes Carl Immanuel Erickson’s correspondence related to the founding and activities of Psi Chi at WSU (then Washington State College), as well as Psi Chi newsletters and handbooks. Psi Chi is an international honor society for students of psychology. Carl Immanuel Erickson was a professor of Psychology at WSU and served as national President of Psi Chi from 1938 to 1940.
Correspondence, clippings, articles, and annual Christmas newsletter (1955-1971) about John and Lilla Leach and their home and gardens in Portland, Oregon.
Project documents from the WSU Capital Planning Department from 1965-2009. Projects include weight room remodel, exterior building repairs, and the Overpass Deck.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
Washington state Potato commission material. The collection includes correspondence and reports. Annual report booklets and binders are included. Faculty correspondence and files are included. International program files are in this collection.
This collection consists of approximately 50 photographs of Pullman and Washington State University life, spanning the period from the 1890s to the 1980s. The photographs were donated by Pullman residents and WSU alumni to aid in the creation of Bill Stimson’s book Going to Washington State: A Century of Student Life. In addition to photographs, individuals also donated dance booklets and scrapbooks that illustrate early campus life in Pullman. Also included in this collection are a few photographs documenting California Native Americans, as well as photographs of Jayne Klyne McDonald, the second wife of nineteenth century Hudson Bay Company Chief Trader Archibald McDonald.
Memoirs of Bryson L. Jaynes, former English professor at the State College of Washington, of his early life in Colorado and later in Washington State, 1905-1984.
Signed holographs: Report from the Superintendent of Schools to the Board of Commissioners of Jackson County, by S. Humphrey, and receipt to Jackson County Treasurer for $574.50 for territorial revenue, signed by J.D. Boon.
Items in this collection include a bound collection of proposed graduate research projects from 1935; an inventory of all objects and property owned by the WSU (then known as the State College of Washington) from 1921; and various memoranda, correspondence, and reports related to the Association of Universities and Landgrant Colleges. Also includes reports relating to rural international development, and the Agency for International Development (AID) from 1964.
The collection consists primarily of minutes from the meetings of Library Faculty meetings, and from the Library Faculty Advisory Council. In some cases, relevant reports or materials reviewed in the meetings have been included with the minutes. If no minutes were present at processing but an agenda was, then that agenda was retained. As these were transferred in multiple accessions and in a non-comprehensive manner, many years are incomplete or missing entirely. The 2004-2011 Faculty Minutes (in UA 2013-07) were reconstructed by LFAC members from lost/partial records prior to coming to the archives.
A compilation of the pioneer settlers of Grand Mound Prairie, Thurston County, Washington.
The William A. Inman Papers contains both items of a personal nature and documents associated with the Colfax Lodge, No. 14, of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows.
Photographs and negatives, of approximately 2600 images, documenting the work and environs of the Washington State University Irrigated Agriculture Research and Extension Center (IAREC) / Irrigation Experiment Station in Prosser, and of its researchers and staff.
The collection consists of a small number of what appear to be press photographs from the November 1943 Cairo Conference and the Tehran Conference, where the leaders of the Allied nations met. The world leaders are depicted numerous times. All images are slightly over 2”x3”, and are black and white.
The majority of the Cairo images are of Roosevelt, Churchill, and Kai-Shek. Soong Mei-Ling (Madame Chiang Kai-Shek) is also present. One image of Churchill’s inspection of his old regiment, the Fourth Hussars, is also included.
Similarly, the majority of the Tehran images are of those Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin at the Soviet embassy. Included is an image from the presentation of the Sword of Stalingrad to Stalin, and another of Churchill reviewing Sikh troops.
In one of the three unidentified images, Churchill’s daughter Sarah is in a crowd behind him.
Contains list of old settlers, accounts, and minutes of meetings, Rosalia, Wash., 1901-1917.
Undated typescript with manuscript corrections and additions.
Portraits and snapshots of the Walker family and friends, including Dr. R. D. McRae; also scenes of Hunters, Washington, 1895 - 1925.
A certified manuscript copy of Asel Edward Severance's diploma from the University of Oregon, 1888 April 2, signed and notarized by the auditor of Adams County, Washington Territory, on September 6, 1888.
The records of the Office of Continuing Education consist of correspondence, reports, project research and implementation, publications, brochures and pamphlets, meeting notes, and personnel files. The earlier records come from disassembled scrapbook s, and scrapbook material that had not been mounted. Records from the years after 1970 are from the files of John Cronland, Director of Continuing Education.
Signed holograph transmitting the proceedings of the City Council of Boston on the death of Abraham Lincoln. This letter was addressed from Gardener Tufts in Washington, D.C., to Gideon Welles, Secretary of the Navy, on May 31, 1865.
The collection consists solely of the minutes from the meetings of the Washington State University Faculty Senate and its predecessor, the University Senate.
This letter is addressed from G.R. Mineck, T.M., in Spokane Falls to all agents and trainmen in the Spokane and Palouse Railway Company. The letter gives instructions re: F2 and F4 reports.
Land deed, Northern Pacific Railroad to Charles Grutt, Davenport, WA, 1903 December 21.
This collection consists chiefly of corporate records relating to Reginald Ashley Caton and the Fortune Press (London, England) between 1896 and 1974. Includes correspondence, invoices, receipts, handwritten production expenses, financial statements, and printed ephemera.
Five autographed letters, signed, to Sir Richard and Lady Caroline Jebb from Leslie Stephen, Anne Ritchie, Emily Ritchie, F.W.H. Myers, and George Otto Trevelyan.
Mostly correspondence, financial and administrative reports related to the development of energy services on the WSU Pullman Campus. Includes meeting minutes and memoranda related to the Pullman Moscow Water Resource Center. Also contains material related to the introduction of natural gas energy services at WSU. Files range from 1992-1998.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
Undated accounts of life and westward migration of Ada Jane Chase, especially in mining areas of Nevada.
This collection consists of budgets reports from fall, spring, and summer semesters. Budget and data reports are also included within this collection.
67 mounted photographs showing range utilization in Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, and Nevada. Each photograph is labeled on the back with a glued information card including location, subject, date, photographer, and negative number. Additionally, all images are stickered as GS - Period Slides, GS - Carrying Capacity, or, in just one case, GS - Seasons of Grazing. Photographers include Milo H. Deming, Lawrence J. Palmer, Theodore B. Nichols, James O. Stewart, Mark Anderson, D. A. Shoemaker, Harry E. Malmsten, Bryant S. Martineau, James T. Jardine, W. B. Miller, Herbert W. Johnston, and F. T. Crowmiller. All photographs were produced during the photographers' employment with the Forest Service, within the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Typescript transcript requesting political patronage in the form of employment.
The collection consists of material assembled for an exhibit in 1992 and 1993. Included are an exhibit brochure, an oral history, biographical material, and publications by Jacobson.
Items are associated with an exhibit, Phil Jacobson and Design at TRA, which was presented at the University of Washington and Washington State University during 1992 and 1993.
Biennial report of the Oregon Milk Control Board for 1941-1942, plus accompanying narrative and statistical information.
This collection contains records of the Merion Bluegrass Association. The collection consists of incoming and outgoing correspondence, financial reports, by-laws, meeting minutes and committee reports, and papers pertaining to membership, public relations, and research and development. Additionally the collection contains material relating to the dissolution of the Merion Bluegrass Association in 1989, including IRS documents. The collection also includes advertisements and advertising research files, turf grass pamphlets, Lawn Institute material, photographs, film negatives, and a slideshow with narration (33 1/2 rpm disc).
A single letter, with envelope, from Al Hartman to Joe McIntosh, dated 1973 March 2, congratulating the latter on breaking the former’s 56 year old record for most wins by a Washington State University pitcher, and talking about Hartman’s life as a baseball player.
Elwyn Kechley Scrapbook, 1927-1934. While a student at Washington State College, Kechley played in a band that performed on cruise ships in 1931 and 1932, and most of the material in the scrapbook relates to these experiences. Materials include photographs, newspapers (whole issues and clippings), and memorabilia. Included among the miscellaneous materials are two issues of Crimson and Gray, the newspaper of Chehalis (WA) High School (1927 February 22, 1928 March 14), and undated literature about the Isaacson Angle Blade Trac-Dozer.
Essay analyzing the ethnoarchaeology of the Beef Barn at Washington State University prior to the building's renovation and reopening as the Lewis Alumni Centre.
Correspondence, articles, notes, with E.O. Holland, R.B. Coglon, re: Meeker's publications, the Oregon Trail, Pioneers of America, and Seattle Food Conservation Company.
This collection consists of three letters from novelist Alan Barnsley (pseudonym Gabriel Fielding) to literary critic Derek Stanford. In the letters, he discusses his new novel about the Holocaust, The Birthday King, which Stanford was reviewing. He also writes about his friend, novelist Muriel Spark. Two of the items are autograph letters, signed, dated September 18 and November 5, 1962. The third item is a typed letter, signed, dated June 15, 1964.
This collection consists of account books and ledgers of the Carty farm near Ridgefield, Washington. The papers, from 1881-1918, detail livestock purchases, wages, butter sales, rental equipment and stock agreements, calf sales and other income and expenses of James N. Carty and his son, William E. Carty. A genealogy of the Carty family is also included with these papers.
Letters, clippings, announcements, photographs and other personal and family material. Some items concern the Buhl, Id., newspaper and the town of Buhl.
This collection consists of approximately 300 photographs of activities and events of Regents Hall, presumably taken by residents during the school years between 2000 and 2006. Many of the photographs are unlabeled and undated.
The collection consists or recordings collected by or donated to the Talmadge Anderson Heritage House and those affiliated it with, over its history. The topics are related to African-Americans and Washington State University or the northwest. They include academic presentations, musical performances.
These underground comix and small press materials were collected by Jeff Zenick and were published circa 1984 to 2003. The collection includes 95 unique titles, with sequential issues of many comix, newsletters, and zines. Standard and digest size comix make up about fifty percent of the collection and most are underground and small press comix with amateur production values and small print runs. Minicomix are approximately ten percent of the collection. Approximately forty percent of the collection is non-comix related, consisting of advertising and promotional materials, catalogs, newsletters, and zines (a term derived from "magazine," and self-published via photocopier). Of these, zines are a small majority (about ten percent of the collection) and are notable for their representations of the American music underground, counterculture, horror and fantasy writing, and several works by Jeff Zenick.
Typescript (carbon) concerning California public utilities and irrigation districts in the 1930s.
"Photos include Monroe Street Bridge, Post Street Bridge, town scene looking north from Post Street, County Court House, Dam at City Water Works, Twickenham Ferry, 2 pictures of Coeur d'Alene in Idaho, 2 of the balloon ascension and parachute jump at Loon Lake. One of the photographs shows a parachute descent from a hot-air balloon at Loon Lake about 35 miles north of Spokane. The jumper is undoubtedly "Captain" Thomas S. Baldwin as he was the only daredevil making parachute attempts at this time. Baldwin was a 19th century circus aerialist who, after becoming fascinated with hot air balloons, modified his act in 1875 so that he could perform from a bar hanging below an airbag. He quickly became a star attraction at fairs all over the country, Canada, and the Far East, performing almost 3,000 acrobatic ascents. Noticing that the novelty of his act had begun to fade, Baldwin and his brother designed a light, flexible, and compact parachute. "In front of an audience at San Francisco's Golden Gate Park on January 30th, 1885, Baldwin offered the park manager a deal - he would jump from a hot-air balloon for $1.00 per foot of height, with 2,000 feet being the maximum. The crowd, unknowingly, witnessed the first public descent in a parachute by an American, and Baldwin was soon dubbed 'The Father of the Modern Parachute.' Although Baldwin invented the first parachute harness, his jumps were nothing like those of today. Baldwin would ascend in a sitting position on a small seat beneath his balloon. When he reached the desired altitude, Baldwin would pull a rip panel in his balloon to release hot air, causing the balloon to begin a rapid descent. With the momentum needed to fill the parachute with air, Baldwin would then jump from the seat." (National Aviation Hall of Fame)" (seller's description).
The collection consists of WSU Foundation records from 1986-1988. It includes correspondence with outside organizations and alumni, individual employee correspondence with alumni, and details on Foundation events.
Mostly administrative and financial files related to the WSU's Presidential Office during Sam Smith's time as president from 1993-1998.
This item is titled "Personal experiences of the Nez Percé War, as told by Helen Julia Mason Walsh." Included are typescript transcripts, notes, and correspondence, circa 1916.
Affidavits about W.H. Gray's losses by Sioux Indians in 1837.
The collection consists of individual aerial photographs (maps) and indexes. The majority of the collection consists of images of Whitman County and the Pullman region, but additional sets of photographic indexes to two other Washington counties are included, as are a sequence documenting the lower Columbia River. Virtually all of the sets of photographs are incomplete.
Photos and slides detailing various events, activities, courses, and misc. individuals involved with the College of Veterinary Medicine. Photos include coverage of the event in which Betty White was named an honorary alumna of the college, as well as students working with animals and the inner-processes of the College of Veterinary Medicine ranging from around 1948 to the time that the BCU closed in June of 2021.
Okanogan County Superior Court case concerning a lien on a cold storage plant.
This collection contains records of the J. E. Love Company, from 1932 to 1980. It includes account ledgers, purchase and order forms, as well as documents related to billings, taxes, audits, patents, and trademarks. The collection also contains employee association minutes from 1937 to 1945.
Preliminary Inventory:
Box 1: Order form (1968-1972), account records (1969-1975).
Box 2: Correspondence (1960-1979).
Box 3: Order forms (1960-1975).
Box 4: Employee records and purchase orders (1943-1968), correspondence (1941-1960), employee association meeting minutes (1937-1945), ledgers (1974).
Box 5: Billing statements (1964-1974).
Box 6: Invoices (1975-1977).
Box 7: Correspondence and account records (1967-1979).
Box 8: Account ledgers (1933-1950).
Box 9: Invoices (1973-1974).
Box 10: [Not used]
Box 11: Account payable papers (1972-1974).
Boxes 12-14: Miscellaneous papers and correspondence (1960-1980).
Box 15: Account books (1944-1971), General ledger (1949-1969).
Box 16: Papers related to taxes and audits (1953-1979), United States trademarks (1935 and 1938), United States Patent for Harvesting Mechanism (1948), United States Patent for Harvesters (1935, 1937 and 1940), United States Patent for Pea Harvester (1932), United States Patent for Harvesting Machines (1933,1937, 1938, and 1940), United States Patent for Conveyor Belts (1938), United States Patent for Crop Lifters (1938 and 1940), United States Patent for Harvest Reels (1962, 1964, 1965, and 1966), and patent application materials including correspondence, photographs, and technical drawings, as well as a Canadian patent for agricultural harvesting machinery and components thereof (1933, 1935, 1936 and 1977).
Box 17: Account books (1930s-1950s).
Box 18: Papers pertaining to patents, including correspondence and sketches.
Diary and account entries of A.H. Dawson, dairyman, near Entiat, Washington, 1902-1903.
All boxes contain shipment files, contracts, and project proposals related to the removal of hazardous waste and other projects related to Environmental Health and Safety from 1987-1994.
The papers of John Bradley are primarily concerned with legal and financial matters of his steamboat and real estate investments. They include a collection ledger, a cargo manifest, insurance policies, articles of agreement, bills of sale, and 1865 federal income tax receipt, four unidentified tintypes, and letters including one by young Cyrus to Mrs. John Bradley.
Research and laboratory notes, seminar papers, lecture notes and course materials, correspondence, and slides, concerning research and instructional activities.
The collection consists of 18 contractor's drawings, approximately 22"x34" in size, of the Delta Gamma sorority house at NE 715 Linden in Pullman, WA. These were contractor copies, and are stamped with approval notices from city of Pullman inspectors. The drawings were created for a 1995 partial renovation of the sorority house originally constructed in 1949. The collection is 18 drawings: 9 architectural, 4 mechanical, and 5 electrical.
The papers of Paul Beckett are made up of correspondence with fellow scholars, consisting mostly of letters of recommendation for former students and colleagues, administrative reports on the Department of Political science, and draft writings on research and teaching of municipal government.
United States Army discharge; Northern Pacific Railroad Company land deed, Spokane County, Wash.; United States pension certificate.
The collection consists of an oral history interview with Catherine May Bedell, circa 1998, the product of the A Few Good Women: Advancing the cause for Women in Government, 1969-1974 oral history project initiated by the Honorable Barbara Hackman Franklin in 1995. It includes copies of an audio recording (digital files on compact disk), approximately 80 minutes in length, and a transcript with index (typescript, photocopy).
This collection consists of papers of soil scientist Verle G. Kaiser. It includes correspondence, papers on types of soils and their uses, newspaper clippings, material dealing with aspects of soil erosion in the Palouse area, field diaries of Kaiser, 1936-1976, audio recordings, and records of Kaiser's activities in soil development projects in Colombia, Nicaragua, Honduras and Iran. It also includes some of his personal records, and maps detailing the soils, crops, and erosion of soil in eastern Washington.
Manuscripts and dummies of illustrated pamphlets on soil conservation practices in the Palouse, prepared for the Cheney Weeder Company, 1952-1954.
Correspondence about the sale and breeding of dogs, contained in letterpress copy book, 1898-1908.
Diaries, 1885-1918, of farm life in Entiat Valley; clippings and other papers; also portrait and ledger of her father, James Crayton Bonar, 1829-1892.
This collection contains correspondence, meeting minutes, bills, receipts, and other records pertaining to a rural women's club, the Union Center Goodwill Club, in Whitman County, Washington. The records date 1936-1954. The meeting minutes are chiefly recorded in three composition notebooks, and in addition to the minutes, the books list members' names, birthdays, and wedding anniversaries, as well as dues paid, expenses, and schedules for club meetings. Collection includes Goodwill Club yearbooks, by-laws, and miscellaneous club notes.
Primarily contains newspaper clippings, constitutional documents, and promotional event material related to the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) of Washington State University from about 1957 to the 1980s. Other items include meeting minutes, agendas, and photos related to the Women's Resource Center and its student committees such as the Association of Pacific and Asian Women (APAW) and the Black Women's Caucus (BWC) from the 1980s to around 2003.
This collection consists of a single item: a bound ledger recording land sales in Greene's Addition (Spokane, WA) of the Capitol Land Company.
Student paper for a course at Washington State College, Public Welfare Administration (Social Welfare 230), taught by A. A. Smick. The author reports a study tracing the development of public welfare in Washington State from 1933 to 1939.
This typescript letter is signed by E.W. Ross in the Washington State Office of Commissioner of Public Lands in Olympia, WA. It is addressed to W.F. Magill, Assistant Attorney General in Olympia, WA, and discusses Native American land claims in May 1909.
Committees, 1948-1956, includes the records of the Coordinating Committee on Academic Relations, although other records on junior college policy and state coordination are included. Correspondence, memos, and reports make up the bulk of the material.
Conferences, 1962-1972, contains records from conferences of junior and community college personnel and faculty on the WSU campus on a wide variety of academic/professional subjects. Evaluations from participants make up the bulk of the subseries; other materials include correspondence, reports, memos, flyers.
The subseries Education, 1940-1980, consists of correspondence, studies, projects and statistics concerning all facets of education. A newsletter is also included.
Junior and Community Colleges, 1954-1977, consists of reports, studies, workshop information, minutes, flyer materials, and correspondence.
Includes the records of the Coordinating Committee on Academic Relations, although other records on junior college policy and state coordination are included. Correspondence, memos, and reports make up the bulk of the material.
Contains records from conferences of junior and community college personnel and faculty on the WSU campus on a wide variety of academic/professional subjects. Evaluations from participants make up the bulk of the subseries; other materials include correspondence, reports, memos, flyers.
Consists of correspondence, studies, projects and statistics concerning all facets of education. A newsletter is also included.
Consists of reports, studies, workshop information, minutes, flyer materials, and correspondence.
This collection contains the papers of Dr. Edward Bennett, a Professor of History at Washington State University, dated between 1917 and 1993. This collection primarily consists of professional papers related to teaching, the WSU History Department, and Dr. Bennett's research on American foreign diplomacy during the mid twentieth century. The collection also contains correspondence, newspaper clippings, and copies of publications on American foreign diplomacy.
Preliminary Inventory:
Boxes 1-4: Teaching and professional papers, including course materials, correspondence, newspaper clippings, and research notes on American foreign policy, between 1964-1987.
Box 5: Research materials including publications, papers related to professional organizations and conferences, newspaper clippings (1930s), related to American foreign relations between World War I and the Cold War.
Boxes 6-9: Professional papers and teaching materials, including correspondence, course instruction and History department documents, research notes, as well as papers related to his time as a Faculty Representative, between 1961-1989.
This collection consists of correspondence (principally with Harper and Row), manuscript drafts and other materials related to James Sandoe's work compiling, editing and writing the introduction for an anthology of stories by Dorothy L. Sayers, Lord Peter (1972), featuring her character Lord Peter Wimsey. Included in the collection are two Penguin edition volumes of Sayers' stories, Lord Peter Views the Body and Hangman's Holiday.
The collection includes materials related to Durrant's career and activities at WSU, including the Department of Physical Education for Women, the Physical Education Sports and Leisure Studies (PESLS) Department, women's basketball, volleyball, and the Fish Fans synchronized swim group; advisory committees and faculty/staff meetings; the merger of the Departments of Physical Education for Men and Women; the Sport Management program; Legislative Affairs; the meetings of the Council of Faculty Representatives; and the Task Force on the Climate for Women at WSU. The collection includes correspondence, audiocassette tapes, photographs, newspaper articles, and memorabilia.
Correspondence, principally between Helen M. Clark, John Wilson Snook, and Fannie Steele; articles, clippings, photographs, and other papers concerning newspaper and magazine articles on aspects of Montana's past. Dated 1951-1969.
The collection includes manuscripts (reproductions) and published works. Several of the poetry collections were written and published during Sánchez's tenure at WSU.
This collection consists of professional papers of mycologist and Washington State University professor Jack D. Rogers. The files include manuscripts and related illustrations and photographs. All are directly related to his professional publications and presentations. The materials include his c.v. and list of publications (box 1).
The collection consists of reports, plans, designs, and schematics relating to a large number of WSU Buildings; though a few earlier materials are included, the majority of the materials dates from the late 1980s to early 1990s.
Holograph hardcover notebook, made of handmade Italian paper, in Roger Fry's hand which contains working draft translations of 25 poems by Stéphane Mallarmé; includes corrections.
This collection consists of a book of promissory notes and four single-entry account ledgers kept by Thomas L. Gannon. Additionally, it contains various receipts and bills.
The bulk of the records are contained in the first two series. Speeches and publicity materials, including scrapbooks, make up Series 1, while Series 2 consists of correspondence.
Series 3, E. O. Holland, 1944-1950, consists of files that were originally removed from the office files by President Compton when he left the State College of Washington. He kept the files in his personal possession until his death in 1967. President Compton apparently retained these papers because they were potentially embarrassing to his predecessor, President Ernest Otto Holland, documenting as they do Holland's political and personal efforts in opposition to decisions taken at Washington State College, and to his "butting-in" from his position in retirement.
Two-page holograph letter, signed, from Nina Hamnett to Mr. Davis (possibly an autograph collector). Hamnett thanks him for a letter he has sent to her, in which he apparently praises one of her books.
These materials were received in multiple installments, accessioned separately as described below.
MS 1979-04: This collection contains papers of author Evelyn Johnson Hawes (1915-1994), from 1975 to 1976. The collection consists of typed and handwritten literary manuscripts as well as editing notes, for Hawes' book Sail West to Death. The collection also contains both professional and personal incoming correspondence, and greeting cards sent to Hawes.
MS 1987-41: This collection contains papers pertaining to the family and professional lives of author Evelyn Johnson Hawes (1915-1994) and her father, Judge William Lon Johnson (1882-1967), from 1891 to 1987. The collection's records for Johnson include materials related to his service as a state senator, the Lieutenant Governor, and a Superior Court Judge: speeches, a memoir, incoming and outgoing correspondence, a scrapbook of newspaper articles related to Johnson, photographs, and his birth and marriage certificate. The records for Hawes consist of personal and professional correspondence, family photographs, professional scrapbooks, teaching files, press materials, article manuscripts, audio tapes of lectures and interviews given by Hawes, and printed materials authored by others.
MS 1989-62: This collection contains the papers for author Evelyn Johnson Hawes (1915-1994), from 1950 to 1971. It consists of manuscripts of Hawes' short stories and articles, correspondence with various editors, published versions of stories, unpublished articles on Seattle and the University of Washington, radio scripts for KHQ out of Colville, Washington, and family photographs.
MS 1994-55: This collection contains papers of author Evelyn Johnson Hawes (1915-1994), from 1954 to 1992. It includes professional papers pertaining to copyright, research files, correspondence, article drafts and other manuscripts, published versions of short stories and articles, books by Hawes and others, teaching materials, and newspaper clippings (book reviews, etc.); it also includes some personal correspondence.
This collection contains papers and research materials of Dr. Maurice Theodore James (1905-1982), a Professor in the Department of Entomology at Washington State University. The collection consists of correspondence, ephemera, minutes, reports, memoranda, speeches/writings, personal papers, and research material, with dates ranging from the 1940s to the 1970s. These materials pertain to James's research on insects such as the "Fox Maggot" (Wohlfahrtia Opaca), Dyscritomyia, Stratiomyidae, blowflies, Sargus Ptecticus, Chiromyza, Nemotelus chilensic, and include graphs, notes, photographs, copies of articles, drawings, and reports. The collection also contains correspondence with other universities, the United States Department of Agriculture, research stations, and museums, in addition to grant applications and documents, a manuscript for "Flies that cause Myiasis in Man," and diplomas and other certificates.
Documents from the WSU Libraries from 1972-1978. Includes files on the Washington Libraries Network (WLN) council documents, rules, and meetings. Also includes files on data processing and automation.
This collection contains a variety of materials on nursing in Washington State and at WSU. The collection comprises correspondence, photographs, newspapers and media articles, plans, schematics, meetings minutes, notes and a variety of other materials related to the overall life and work of Hilda Roberts, as well as a plethora of materials on nursing in Eastern Washington. The collections documents the twentieth century development of the profession of nursing as well as the struggles women faced earning respect and consideration as nurses in a field largely dominated by male physicians.
Though the Hilda Roberts papers required substantial reorganization and ordering, the original folders titles were maintained where possible. All notes on individual folders are reproductions of Hilda Roberts’ handwritten notes found on the original document folders. The years represented in each folder title represent the range of years present in the folder and not necessarily all the materials from that period.
This collection contains a manuscript draft of a study of home laundry facilities, "The Efficiency of the Home Laundry Plant," by Evelyn Roberts, dated 1930. The collection also includes questionnaires used for data collection, and the final published version of the study (Agricultural Experiment Station, State College of Washington, Bulletin number 248: "The Efficiency of the Home Laundry Plant," February 1931).
Manuscript poems by members of Poetry Scribes of Spokane (a society), 1964.
This collection consists of records of the YWCA of Washington State University, including budgets, newsletters, meeting minutes, correspondence, and other materials. It also includes volumes of material on student volunteer activities, fundraising, awareness campaigns, political position statements, instructional videos, and other media. The collection also covers student and professional conferences, meetings, and activities related to political activism and student involvement. There are numerous boxes of correspondence, instructional materials and financial documents.
MS. 1991.27, 1947-1987 (0.5 linear feet)
This accession includes correspondence and institutional records.
MS.1997.46 (11 linear feet)
This accession consists of administrative and financial records for the YWCA. This includes correspondence, student cabinet and board minutes, budget materials, advisory board minutes, student handouts and training materials, records from conferences and events hosted by the YWCA. This accession also includes materials on Women's studies, sexual violence, stereotypes, and racial minorities. In addition, this accession contains materials related to various programs, such as peer mentoring, tutoring, and babysitting.
MS.1999.14, 1908-1996 (3 linear feet)
This accession consists of training manuals, various program binders, scrapbooks, and newspaper clippings in three ring binders. This accession also includes handbooks published by the YWCA and an instructional video.
Depositions of witnesses in case of Charles Savage vs. Harry Elmlund, et al in the Mason County Superior court, 1964. Papers relevant to libel suit brought against parties who charged communist affiliations by Savage, a state legislator.
Manuscript documenting discharge of volunteers assisting regular troops in Island County, Washington Territory, in settling a conflict with Snohomish Indians.
Field book from Montana, concerned with surveys of mines, 1921.
This collection consists of three interviews on one cassette tape.
(Release: NO)
This collection consists of media, musical scores, compositions, and programs, correspondence, publicity and publication materials, teaching materials, exhibit materials, photographs, music festival materials and other professional papers of Washington State University music professor Charles Argersinger. Professor Argersinger composed in two main genres: jazz and contemporary art music.
RESTRICTED until further review by MASC staff.
RESTRICTED until further review by MASC staff.
RESTRICTED until further review by MASC staff.
This collection consists primarily of literary manuscripts, galley proofs, printed materials, and correspondence related to Evelyn Hawes' writing projects. Other materials include correspondence and other documentation related to Hawes' participation in the National League of American Pen Women, along with some personal and family items, and some correspondence related to her teaching.
Includes Hawes' listings of materials shipped to WSU, and processing notes regarding preliminary arrangement.
Recording of Ray Mazarek and Michael McClune in Kimbrough Hall in 2001 (April 7). Leslie Moss (Sena) opens the show. Collection includes 2 labeled VHS tapes of this performance.
Daybook, pages 27-168 and 170-572, for a general store in Fort Colville, Washington.
The bulk of the material in this collection consists of correspondence between David Stidolph and author John McCallum, his friend and classmate from Washington State University in the late 1940s. The collection also includes a small amount of biographical material about Stidolph, as well as materials related to his creative marketing and communications work, particularly during his agribusiness career at Mann Packing.
Series 1: John McCallum files, circa 1940s-1995. This series comprises the bulk of the collection, and includes correspondence between Stidolph and McCallum (mostly incoming), notes and correspondence with others about McCallum, photographs, and Stidolph's files on one of McCallum's books, PAC-10 Football: the Rose Bowl Conference (Seattle: The Writing Works, 1982). Stidolph's extensive correspondence with McCallum covers personal and professional matters, reflecting their close friendship. They often wrote about their professional achievements, encouraging each other in their endeavors, but also sustaining an enduring friendly competition.
Series 2: Personal and professional papers, 1941-1997. Most of the material in this series relates to Stidolph's work in creative marketing and communications, along with a small amount of personal material.
The collection consists of approximately 3500 color slides which illustrate activities related to Washington State University in the early 2000s, as covered in the Washington State Magazine alumni journal. The majority of the photographs were taken by WSU’s Photo Services.
Issue: 2001, Winter
Issue: 2001, Winter
Issue: 2001, Winter
Issue: 2001, Winter
Issue: 2001, Winter
Issue: 2001, Winter
Issue: 2001, Winter
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Spring
Issue: 2002, Summer
Issue: 2002, Summer
Issue: 2002, Summer
Issue: 2002, Summer
Issue: 2002, Summer
Issue: 2002, Summer
Issue: 2002, Summer
Issue: 2002, Summer
Issue: 2002, Fall
Issue: 2002, Fall
Issue: 2002, Fall
Issue: 2002, Fall
Issue: 2002, Fall
Issue: 2002, Fall
Issue: 2002, Fall
Issue: 2002, Winter
Issue: 2002, Winter
Issue: 2002, Winter
Issue: 2002, Winter
Issue: 2002, Winter
Issue: 2003, Spring
Issue: 2003, Spring
Issue: 2003, Spring
Issue: 2003, Spring
Issue: 2003, Fall
Issue: 2003, Fall
Issue: 2003, Winter
Issue: 2004, Spring
Issue: 2004, Spring
Issue: 2004, Spring
Issue: 2004, Summer
Issue: 2004, Summer
Issue: 2004, Summer
Issue: 2004, Fall
Issue: 2004, Winter
Issue: 2005, Spring
Issue: 2005, Spring
Issue: 2005, Spring
Issue: 2005, Winter
Issue: 2006, Fall
Issue: 2001, March
Issue: 2001, December
Issue: 2002, August
Issue: 2002, September
Issue: 2004 (?)
This collection contains records of Breitenbush Books (also referred to as Breitenbush Publications). The collection primarily consists of papers related to publication projects and manuscripts, including advertisements, galley proofs, book reviews, contracts, art work, and correspondence. The collection also contains business records of the press.
Preliminary Inventory:
Box 1: Promotional material, galley proofs, correspondence, layout/art work, and miscellaneous papers.
Box 2: Promotional material (framed advertisements) circa 1980s.
Box 3: Promotional material, galley proofs, correspondence, reviews, newspaper clippings, contracts, miscellaneous papers.
Box 4: Galley proofs, primarily pertaining to Bruce Berger's publications, and miscellaneous papers, 1980s/
Box 5: Promotional material and miscellaneous papers, 1977-1980s.
Box 6: Layout/art work and miscellaneous papers,
Box 7: Layout/art work, primarily pertaining to "A Heaven in the Eye," and miscellaneous papers.
Box 8: Layout/art work, reviews, correspondence, and promotional material, 1980s.
Box 9: Layout/art work, reviews, correspondence, promotional material, and proof photographs, 1980s-1992.
Box 10: Correspondence and invoices, 1980s.
Box 11: Reviews and tax documents, 1980s.
Box 12: Correspondence and miscellaneous papers, 1980s.
Box 13: Papers related marketing, mailing lists, postcards, and galley proofs, 1980s.
Box 14: Reviews and papers related to advertising, 1980s-1990.
Box 15: Production materials and miscellaneous papers, 1980s.
Book: White, James Seeley. The Spells of Lamazee: An Historical Novel of the Pacific Northwest Coast. Portland: Loki Books, 1982 [condition note: front cover missing].
Box 16: Correspondence, invoices, newspaper clippings, and mailing lists, 1980s.
Box 17: Invoices, 1980s.
Box 18: Correspondence, newspaper clippings, materials related to other presses, and miscellaneous papers, 1980s-1992.
Boxes 19-23: Layout/art work.
Notebook created by Jane (Jennie) Atherton for a Home Economics class (sewing), probably at Washington State University, with samples.
Primarily consists of accident reports related to the Environmental Health and Safety Office. Contains administrative reports, correspondence, and memoranda also related to various projects such as Paradise Creek. Also includes waste reports related to animal waste and coal and ash. All files range from 1980-2000.
The collection consists of 25 "Boudoir Views" of scenery along the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad.
The publications consist primarily of research reports from projects funded by STEEP, but also includes research proposals and work plans. Items from STEEP's earlier days include papers discussing what directions (priorities) the program should take/fund as it proceeded.
Manuscript transcripts of correspondence concerning Civil War experiences, 1862-1908.
This collection contains presentations, articles, reports, notes, and other professional papers of anthropologist and environmental consultant Leslie Wildesen, related to cultural resource management and public archaeology. A preliminary inventory of the contents is on file at the repository.
Letters, notes, documents, and other papers of W.G. Moore, relative to the American Civil War, experiences as a prisoner of war in the Libby Prison, Richmomd, Virginia, and emigration to California.
This collection consists of 11 color photographs of Palouse region photographs, primarily landscapes and aged farm buildings. They help document the evolution of the farm-based society and architecture of the region.
This collection consists of photocopies of papers of Oliver P. Brewer from 1849-1915, approximately 275 pages total. Included in the collection is correspondence of John A. Stevens, Margaret Cunningham Stevens Brewer, Dexter Newton, and Curtis Newton, 1855-1896; certificates of Dwight Newton, Ohio, circa 1850; minutes and other records of the Oakville Methodist Episcopal Church, 1889; diary of Dexter Newton, 1849-1851; and miscellaneous bills, receipts, broadsides, and affidavits.
Signed holograph (September 1, 1918) about being a German in America during World War I and the state of music in the United States and Europe.
Contains contracts, financial documents, and building plans related to small-scale projects on WSU property including but not limited to the Pullman and Tri-Cities campuses from 2008-2010.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
Correspondence, photograph, printed material and other papers concerning Belknap family genealogy, the lost Blue Bucket Mine; and the typescript of the 1847 overland diary of Lester Hulin.
The papers of Fred G. Rounds consist of correspondence, reports, enclosures, and photographs concerning civic organizations, civil defense, land-use planning, employment at Washington State College, and Rounds' private architectural contracts. The larger and more significant series concern the Pullman City Planning Commission, the Kiwanis Club, and a number of residential architectural projects done as private contracts. Most materials date from about 1940 to about 1960. The papers are arranged in nine series, reflecting an apparent original order. Within series, the arrangement is alphabetical subject folders.
Correspondence retained by Helmut Charles Diehl for the autographs: William E. Borah, Walter Damrosch, Ernestine Schumann-Heink, N. Maximov, and Francis A. Tondorf. Also a letter of transmittal from Diehl.
The collection consists of fifteen reels of 16-mm film and five 1-inch paper data tapes. Films in the collection are preprints that include A, B, and C rolls, magnetic sound tracks, and internegative prints. The A, B, and C rolls and separate magnetic sound tracks are edited together in post-production to create a print. A, B, and C rolls are used to create effects such as fades and dissolves by alternating scenes back and forth from one roll to the next and back. For example, the A roll may have the even-numbered shots with black leader film between them and the B roll the odd-numbered ones. The A and B rolls and the sound track are then run through the contact printer in three passes to create a negative. An internegative comes later in post-production when editing is finished; it is the internegative from which a final release print is made. The internegative reels include an optical sound track that, unlike a magnetic track, is on the film and not on a separate reel. A- or B-wind refers to emulsion orientation. The data tapes carry more identifying information and seem to have been used to sync the rolls in post-production printing. The final two 16mm films are completed films.
The collection consists of papers dealing with men's and women's crew at Washington State University. They tend not to be official university papers, but rather documents collected by people affiliated with the programs, though some official budgets and other materials are included. The materials bulk from about 1985-2000, with the majority of the club materials dating from 1985-1989. Very little men's materials, other than the Pull Hard newsletters, are present from 1990 forward.
Letter by poet George Crabbe to publisher John Murray concerning a manuscript, 1829 February 24.
This collection consists of a single item, Underground Water of the Upper Spokane River Valley, a paper by Washington State College student Reuben Newcomb. It includes photographs, diagrams and maps. It was submitted to The Columbia Section of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers (AIME) for their 1933 undergraduate competition, and won first prize.
This collection consists of correspondence between Carl Johnson and Lenore Emerson during and shortly after World War I (1917-1920), and a set of transcriptions created by their daughter, Barbara Potter, in the 1990s.
Preliminary inventory:
Box 1. Letters from Carl Johnson to Lenore Emerson, 1917-1920.
Box 2. Letters from Lenore Emerson to Carl Johnson, 1917-1920.
Box 3. Transcriptions of letters (transcribed and with an introduction by Barbara Potter), 1990s.
This collection contains the sheet music collection of Ruth Warnecke. The collection primarily consists of published American sheet music and materials related to piano instruction from the 1870s to the 1970s. The collection also contains handwritten sheet music.
Preliminary Inventory:
Box 1-7: Published and handwritten sheet music, primarily American, and materials related to piano instruction (1870s-1970s), including copies of the Health Herald (1912) in box 2.
This collection consists of two 54 x 52 cm. ledgers containing records of examination, appraisement, and disposition of lands conveyed to the State of Washington by the United States for use and support of agricultural colleges (volume 1) and for the establishment and maintenance of a scientific school (volume 2) between 1895 and 1902. These land grants were part of the basis for the creation and funding of the Washington Agricultural College and School of Science, later the State College of Washington, then Washington State University. Also includes an inserted report on timber cruise and land sales, titled "Final Report upon Timber Cruising in the Summer of 1912 for the State College of Washington," a handwritten “List of State College (Scientific School) lands to be sold June 6, 1908,” and a copy of the State of Washington Office of the Commissioner of Public Lands’ “List of school, granted and other public lands… to be sold at public auction on Saturday, June 1st, 1912.”
Ledger of the Anderson Brothers and Company, Spokane, Washington, dealing with financial transactions and area smelting firms.
Records consist of correspondence, memoranda, reports, test and research data, chiefly that assembled as working papers by Walter Clore and his associates.
Correspondence of the Indian Agent about the Indian-white relations, affidavits and other papers about the Yakima Agency, 1873-1894.
This collection consists of papers and photographs related to the experiences of George and Doris McIntyre as workers at the Minidoka War Relocation Center in Idaho during World War II. Most of the documents relate to George McIntyre's work. The collection includes incarceration camp correspondence, photographs, and printed ephemera (office forms, camp newspaper).
This collection consists of documents used in the planning of W. Glenn Terrell's inauguration in March 1968, letters congratulating Terrell on his new position, and approximately 900 print photographs and 1050 negatives of the inauguration and associated events.
This collection consists of a single item: a document from the French and Indian War, dated February 9, 1757, signed by Charles, Duke of Marlborough. He appoints Thomas Walker as cooper (cask and barrel maker) to a train of artillery commanded by General Peregrine Hopson. The document is also signed by Jacob Bryant and W. Mark. On the verso there is a list of names of descendants of Walker who inherited the document as it passed from one generation to another.
This collection consists of papers of Richard Scheuerman related to the Greater Columbia Plateau region. Most of the content is collected research materials (photocopies); also correspondence, notes, presentation files, photographs and audio recordings (oral histories). Some files are related to Richard Scheuerman and Michael Finley's book "Finding Chief Kamiakin." Note about dates: early 20th century material consists of reproductions, not original documents.
Preliminary inventory:
Boxes 1, 2, 4. Correspondence and research files.
Box 3. Oversize research files; photographs; audio recordings (audiocassettes and digital files on compact discs). Added in 2016: 3 oversize items (family documents in Russian and German).
The personal papers of Enoch A. Bryan include: manuscripts of his books (Series 1); teaching materials, chiefly related to economics (Series 2); personal materials received from the WSU Office of the President (Series 3), including speeches, essays, and personal correspondence and papers; and materials received from the Bryan family (Series 4), including speeches and essays, personal records and papers, and papers related to the Riviera Land Company of Columbia County, Washington.
Signed holograph about unscrupulousness in military recruiting. Verso has Abraham Lincoln's endorsement and a question: "What is this about?" This letter is addressed from John L. Wilderman in Fort Columbus, Governors Island, New York Harbor to President Abraham Lincoln, October 3, 1864.
This collection contains papers of Dr. Laszlo Valko (1907-1982), a Professor in the Department of Agricultural Economics at Washington State University. The collection primarily consists of materials related to Valko's research on farming cooperatives in the United States and Europe, including conference programs, loose articles, journals, newspaper clippings, and books. The collection also contains copies of award certificates, correspondence including letters to members of the U.S. Congress and to the Assistant to the Vice President, as well as personal writings about research related travels.
Preliminary Inventory List:
Box 1 - Programs, loose articles, and journals, correspondence including letters to Congress and to the Assistant to the Vice President, copies of award certificates, personal writing about travels, newspaper clippings about conferences and international meetings, and papers relating to research on farming cooperatives in the United States, 1859-1981
Box 2 – Books and copies of books on farming cooperatives (some authored by Valko).
Illustrated typescript (reproduction) about Randall Johnson's experiences on a tour of eastern Europe and the Middle East in 1960. Johnson sent the typescript to Mr. and Mrs. Carl Milton Brewster, and his cover letter is included.
This collection consists of records of the Alpha Gamma Chapter of Phi Delta Kappa. It contains minutes, correspondence, financial and membership records, convention materials, and newsletters.
The records consist of correspondence, reports, bidding records, and other documents related to architecture work and construction.
Most of the materials in this collection are Daubenmire's publications, many of which are numbered and total over a hundred. The collection also contains research materials pertaining to ecology and botany, mainly in the Pacific Northwest, but also addresses topics in Costa Rica, and includes notes, charts and graphs, articles, journals, as well as teaching materials. Additionally, the collection includes incoming correspondence, Daubenmire's curriculum vitae, a scrapbook from his graduate students, passports, photographs, conference programs and event pamphlets, a bound copy of his report "Vegetation of Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho" for the Washington Agricultural Experiment Station, and awards from the Society of American Foresters, Northwest Scientific Association, Ecological Society of America, Society for Range Management, Sociological Society of America, and the Nature Conservancy.
These papers consist of minutes, account books, photographs, and correspondence of the Chinese Students' Club at Washington State College between 1923 and 1939.
Typescript of report concerning claims by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions for Indian depredations in 1847.
Bound scrapbook containing five items from a recital given at Washington State University by vocalist Ernestine Schumann-Heink and her accompanist, Frank La Forge. The scrapbook includes a program for the performance and four music scores with Schumann-Heink's autograph; two also include La Forge's autograph.
The papers of Clarence Leslie Hix span the years 1930 through 1978.
Paper for undergraduate research, Anthropology 499, at the University of Washington in the Correspondence Division.
The collection consists of records pertaining to construction, remodeling, maintenance, and improvement of WSU buildings. Buildings included here include Science Hall, Todd Hall Addition, WSU Children's Center, Yakama Village, Food and Human Nutrition Facility, Tri-Cities University Center, and Beasley Coliseum.
This typescript by the Noyon (France) Conseil municipal is titled "Homage to the Memory of President Franklin Roosevelt: Extrait du Registre des de ́Liberations du Conseil Municipal de la Ville de Noyon." Also included is correspondence on this resolution.
Book in which Haskell acquired the signatures of his fellow members of Congress.
The collections consists of approximately 150 photographs and postcards from the construction of Long Lake Dam (near Spokane, WA), dating from approximately 1910-1914. The majority of the images deal with the construction of the dam proper, though a small number deal with the worker's relaxation activities or with local natives. A very few images may deal with nearby Little Falls Dam. Also included in the collection is one two-page 1959 letter which serves as a brief biography of Beckman. The images are in no particular order. Approximately 90% of the images are labeled, but less than a fifth are dated.
Photocopy of the 1977 Master's thesis of Joseph Harry Bushnell. Written for his Master of Science in Education from Washington State University, it covers the history of industrial education at the university.
This collection consists of photographic slides, collection inventory information, reports, and supporting documentation for the Lucullus McWhorter artifact collection held by the Museum of Anthropology, Washington State University.
The Historic Photograph Subject File contains photographs taken throughout the Pacific Northwest and Alaska that cover a wide variety of subjects.
This collection consists of papers of Washington State University faculty member and bacteriologist Charles H. Drake. It is divided into two sections with the first section consisting of papers directly related to his classes and publications. The second section consists of papers related to the International Northwest Conference on Diseases in Nature Communicable to Man (INCDNCM) and Drake's work with the organization, as well as a small number of group photographs of INCDNCM members.
These bound volumes contain both annual and monthly reports of the County Agent leader for the Agricultural Extension Service for all counties in Washington State, arranged by year from 1916-1922. These volumes hold summaries of notable field studies and demonstrations, notes on county visits by the Director of the Extension program, and weekly updates on the activities of county leaders across Washington State. Contained herein are a variety of studies, including soil studies, livestock investigations, plowing campaigns, dairy and poultry projects, orchard and garden projects, and general projects to improve farm organization and land management around Washington State. When taken with the comprehensive Agricultural Extension Service holdings in the Washington State University Archives these records illustrate the process whereby experts revolutionized Washington State Agriculture following the First World War and created the factors that led to the “dust bowl” conditions of the 1930s.
All of the images are black and white. The bulk of pictures are from Seabeck; those images are arranged in chronological order. There are additional pictures located in the Washington State Publications Office records, PC 1. Oversized materials are listed at the end of the collection, and stroed separately in map cases.
Primarily consists of shipping manifests and other administrative forms related to the removal of hazardous waste on the WSU campuses from 1995-2008.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
This collection consists of biographical sketches of Whitman County, Washington and Latah County, Idaho pioneers recorded by James Emerson Lindsey in 1931 and 1934. Significant individuals include Daniel Wright Boone, William H. Brabyn, Walter A. Fiscus, Oliver R. Hall, John Morris Klemgard, Christian Naffziger, George E. Ritchey, and Carson W. Taylor. These sketches include information about family origin, spouse and children, life achievements, and miscellaneous information.
Additional materials about George E. Ritchey include a newspaper clipping dating from 1926 and a memorandum from 1972.
Typescript of an address delivered at the 1963 annual meeting of the Washington State University Friends of the Library; complete with corrections and changes. The address is titled "Contemporary architecture: The swan song of theory."
The greater part is written in a fine clear hand, probably not by the author. The last few pages were probably written by the author himself. The journal does not contain entries for each day of the voyage.
Records of a Moscow, Idaho, merchant, 1903.
An undated letter of recommendation for Dr. Knight written by poet George Crabbe.
Included in the records are correspondence, the charter and constitution, receipts, membership lists, pledge ship applications, ephemera, bulletins, and other papers. Although the records span dates from 1935 to 1972, the bulk of the material dates from 1962 to 1968.
The collection consists primarily of documents originating with or relating to the work of agronomist Gordon Van Epps on a WSU / USAID agronomy project in Lesotho. While it does contain work plans, project reports, and administrative materials, it also contains a 156 page diary of Van Epps’ time in Lesotho, correspondence from his preparations for going, and 10 photographs from the work in Lesotho.
Sharsmith's papers consist of his correspondence, mostly relative to work at the university herbarium, and his lists of the botanical specimens he collected while at Washington State University.
This collection contains primarily photos and biographical material related to Edward R. Murrow, notable alumni and namesake for the Murrow College of Communication from about 1930-1994. Items also include several articles on Murrows achievements, photos of Murrow with several notable figures such as former Presidents John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Harry Truman; and a collection of materials and articles related to the stamp created in his honor.
Affidavits and clippings concerning the straying of horses near Plaza, Spokane Co., Washington.
This collection consists of Donald Bushaw's papers from his service on the board of directors of the Greystone Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to the restoration and use of the historic Greystone Church building in Pullman, WA. The Greystone Foundation operated during the late 1980s through early 1990s. The collection includes minutes, by-laws, articles of incorporation, correspondence, membership information. documentation of events, grant applications, and miscellaneous material.
The William Whitmore Papers comprise documents, bills, receipts, and other papers re: Holland family, 1812-1836. Note that Ernest O. Holland was president of Washington State University (formerly, the State College of Washington) from 1915 to 1945.
Typed manuscript of poetry by Purdy J. Conrad.
This collection consists of research materials for the book “Seven for Oregon” by Cornelia Shields. It includes interviews and notes, newspaper clippings, articles and other documents used by Shields in writing her book, which is a fictionalized account of the seven orphaned Sager children’s experiences on the Oregon Trail and living with Marcus and Narcissa Whitman from 1844 to 1847.
The Grant Willoughby Papers comprise letters, bills, receipts, documents, advertising poster, photographs and other papers from Whitman County, Washington, during the frontier era, 1896-1913.
Two reports (typescripts) on agricultural subjects by H. R. Vercler, extension agent for Grant County, WA: "Thistles as hay" and "Jack-rabbit control."
The papers align themselves with correspondence on one side and agency reports, bills and vouchers, financial statements, and abstracts on the other. The correspondence includes materials relative to Simms' work as Indian Agent and merchant and contains personal letters between himself and his wife, relatives back in Maryland, and friends. The agency correspondence includes reports on conditions at the Colville Indian Agency and School. The School, under the direction of Catholic sisters, came to be a center of controversy between Protestant and Catholic Indian factions. Simms, it should be noted, was a Catholic.
The financial records, reports, and abstracts present a picture of the economic interest the Federal Government was taking in the welfare of the Indian. Records of the mundane (office supplies for the Colville Agency) and the major (farming problems, relocation, and illness) are reflected in over 500 items.
These letters were, for the most part, received through the firm of George Allen and Unwin Ltd. and concern publishing matters. It may be assumed that Sir Stanley chose to separate them out from his business files (note, for example, the penciled instructions on Priestley's letter to make a copy for the file) because these were letters from the now or soon-to-be famous and he wished to keep them in his personal files.
Correspondence, clippings, brochures, addresses and other papers on relief politics and the 1934 West Coast Waterfront Strike.
This item comprises a yearbook and guest day program for a women's society in Longview, Washington, 1937-1938.
Records of the Concordia Lutheran Church in Pullman, Washington. Includes bylaws, membership rosters, correspondence, minutes, constitution, budgets, reports, and agendas.
This collection consists of papers related to the reelection campaigns of Congressman Thomas Foley from 1980 through 1986, gathered by Frank Mullen who served as the Whitman County coordinator of Foley's reelection campaign in these years. It includes an analysis of the Fifth Congressional District, newspaper articles about Foley, and petitions of support.
Financial ledger of a Wilson Creek, Washington, livery stable containing records of feed sales, boarding fees, and horse rentals from 1908-1910. The information is organized by customer.
The papers of Tokichi Okazaki principally consist of his incoming correspondence, in Japanese. The content of the letters deal with everyday happenings in Japan. Names of addressers are Tokujiro Okazaki, Mitsu Okazaki, Toshiko Okazaki and others. The relationships between them are hard to identify, except in the case of Toshiki, a daughter of Tokichi Okazaki. The others can be assumed to be brothers or other close relatives of Tokishi Okazaki. There are also a few miscellaneous papers concerning Japanese associations in the U. S. such as Japanese Association of Northern America, Japanese Buddhist Association, Oregon, and Japanese Baptist Church, Seattle.
Primarily contains departmental pamphlets detailing courses and history. Also consists of memoranda, correspondence, and project proposals.
Signed holograph with postscript and initials of Alice Hegan Rice. This letter was addressed from Cole Young Rice in Louisville, Kentucky, to E.O. Holland in Pullman, Washington, July 14, 1918.
Meeting minutes of the Association of Veterinary Faculties of North America, Sofus B. Nelson, Secretary. Includes a cover letter from Sofus B. Nelson, dated 1932 April 06.
This collection contains the papers of Harry Charles Weller (1901-1988), a Professor of Architecture at Washington State University from 1949 to 1966. The collection includes correspondence with Stanley A. Smith, a colleague from Turkey from 1955 to 1969, as well as other correspondence from 1954 to 1966. The collection also contains records related to Weller's employment at WSU, and photographs and newspaper clippings pertaining to other architects and architecture exhibits.
This collection consists of professional papers of Dr. Richard L. Ott. It contains publications by Ott on subjects pertaining to canines and felines, including research on "old dog" encephalitis, canine distemper, and feline respiratory virus disease. The collection also includes incoming and outgoing correspondence about conferences held by the Veterinary Medical Association, and miscellaneous notes. Additionally, this collection contains research files that mainly pertain to infectious diseases and virus vaccination.
This collection of Robert Nilan's papers includes extensive documentation of his published research on barley genetics, and of his career as a faculty member and administrator at Washington State University.
Preliminary inventory:
Box 1. Nilan theses (BSc, MSc, PhD); publications and presentations; correspondence; symposia files; barley genome mapping files; photographs; miscellaneous professional papers.
Box 2. Unsorted clippings, press releases, and newsletters; photographs; curriculum vitae and biographical information, including a career review; Nilan fellowship in genetics file; Nilan distinguished chair files; Nilan personnel records, including professional activity reports and leave proposals/reports.
This collection consists of women's health education ephemera, including teaching manuals, educational pamphlets for girls, and a poster collected in a reference file to accompany the instructional film "The Story of Menstruation" (Walt Disney Productions, 1946). This file was created and maintained by the Washington State University Bureau of Visual Teaching, to be circulated to educators using the film.
This collection of assorted images depicting the history of the State College of Washington (later Washington State University) covers a wide range of subjects, including photographs of buildings on campus, students, faculty, University regents, and campus visitors.
The positive and negative images in this collection were arranged into two separate series; however, it should be made clear that images in the two series do not necessarily overlap - the majority of the negatives and not present as positives, and vice versa. The sub-division of the subjects can be quite extensive. For example, Athletics is arranged alphabetically by individual sports and each sport is subdivided chronologically. If one were looking for a photograph of the 1945 Basketball team, one would first look under Athletics, then Basketball, then 1945. One should check the positives first, then the negatives. During initial processing, a series of "sports contact sheet prints," covering primarily the 1940s and 1950s, was retained as a separate subseries (1.1.05) within sports positives. So, someone looking for sports images in this era should check this subseries as well. Regents and Faculty members have been arranged into subdivisions alphabetically by name.
The collection continues to grow as loose single images are added and interfiled over time.
This collection comprises the annual reports of the Director of the Agricultural Extension Service and his assistants and is bound by volume. These volumes survey the beginnings and progression of the State College of Washington (later Washington State University)'s Extension Service in agriculture and home economics. These books show the growth of the program and record its expansion into a cooperative organization working with chambers of commerce, bankers, and railway companies to render assistance to growing Washington urban and rural economies. These reports detail demonstration activities, education efforts, and in general represent the work of the directors and assistants who worked to modernize Washington State agriculture and the economy through cooperative efforts with communities and individuals across the state. These volumes contain abundant reports on topics including land clearing operations in Western Washington, livestock evaluations, and general 4-H club work across the state, as well as monthly reports of the service's expenditures, attendance, and efforts at extending the knowledge of the State College of Washington to the citizens of Washington State.
The collection consists of photographs of activities, services, and equipment at academic audio visual centers around the state of Washington. This includes photographs of audio visual centers at four non-WSU colleges; a set of what appear to be filming activities at Pullman public schools and at WSU’s Todd Hall; and some that are unlabeled but which appear to primarily be WSU’s Audio Visual Center. Many of the images, particularly the non-WSU ones, are labeled, but few are dated.
This collection consists of a single item: a handwritten four-page letter from Leslie Stephen to his friend and fellow alpinist, Arthur Giles Puller, dated June 3, 1862. In it, Stephen invites Puller to dine with him at the Alpine Club in Richmond, and mentions he is thinking of writing a climbing book (this ultimately became The Playground of Europe, published in 1871).
Diary of a frontier farmer at Allegan, Michigan.
Primarily architectural plans, proposals, and correspondence relating to the redesign Glenn Terrell Mall circa 1992. Also includes annual reports, and a chronology of the Kamiak Butte controversy in 1973.
Photocopy typescript by Elma Barkley Ashton reminiscing on her pioneer experiences in Idaho and Oregon.
Rolled drawings documenting WSU buildings which have since either been demolished or sold off.
An itemized list of the contents of this collection can be found online here.
This collection contains records of the Washington State University chapter of Epsilon Sigma Phi beginning with its founding in 1927. The collection includes correspondence, member lists and information, historical sketches, and newspaper clippings and photographs related to the organization, chapter, and members.
Preliminary Inventory:
Box 1:
Box of active member cards. box of retiree cards, membership book, including photographs and biographical information (1927-1946).
Membership book (A-L) including photographs and biographical information; survey of extension worker educational background versus salary (1952); correspondence, both internal and external, in folders labeled by year (1955-1988); brochures advertising Epsilon Sigma Phi; information regarding Retirement FAIR (Fund for Assuring an Independent Retirement); membership lists (1958-1964); retirees and life members; list of chapter officers (1927-1983 and 1936-1960); duties of officers; history of Epsilon Sigma Phi; budget statements of Beta Chapter (1973-1982); Constitution and By-laws of Epsilon Sigma Phi; Constitution and By-laws of Beta Chapter (1979); Epsilon Sigma Phi ceremony procedures; Beta Chapter member awards records; information sheets for members, including some photographs.
Box 2:
Membership book (K-Z); information about deceased and inactive chapter members (binder); framed copy of "Extension Worker's Creed" (oversize).
Manuscripts and typescript transcripts of correspondence from brothers John and Hamilton Trowbridge about Civil War service and other activities, 1861-1881.
Primarily contains administrative, budget, and construction reports related to the Veterinary Teaching Hospital. Also includes building plans and information on the General Engineering Building and the Mechanical Engineering Shop. All files range from 1930-1997.
 This collection includes souvenirs from annual Washington State American Legion conventions in the years 1938, 1939, 1941 and 1950. The nine souvenir items include convention programs from 1938 and 1950, a guest ticket book from 1938 and convention badges from 1938, 1939, 1941 and 1950 with cover letters.
The collection was maintained in its original order, with the scrapbooks moved to the end. Box 1 consists of the two notebooks and folders with photos and papers relating to meetings, and “Crimson W”. The second box consists of three scrapbook albums which include news clippings and photographs. The third box contains the two scrapbooks added in 2010, removed from their bindings and foldered.
Contains glass negatives presumably taken by Austin Mires that primarily detail family and friends. Negatives range from roughly 1904-1919.
One typescript letter signed by Virginia Woolf from 52 Tavistock Square with the annotated date "Xmas day" and a manuscript envelope postmarked December 27th, 1928. In the letter, Woolf writes that "I am more pleased than I can say that you survived my burial. Never will I attempt such a thing again. To think that you have bought my book!" The burial refers to Woolf's having used Ruck's name in Jacob's Room, with the minor change of adding an "h" to it ("Bertha Ruck") and killing the character. Though Ruck initially considered a lawsuit, the authors, after exchanging letters, were reconciled.
Washington State Great Northern Express Company Receipt ledger from 1907. Five pages filled, approximately 150 pages are blank.
Typescript with additional notes added on August 5, 1974, emphasizing the life of Ruth Kellogg Baker's father Lucien Kellogg.
This collection consists of records of the Women's Auxiliary of the Washington Wool Growers Association. It includes minutes, correspondence, constitutions and by-laws, membership lists, financial reports, conference programs, photographs, newspaper clippings and other printed material. Most of the folders include a cover sheet summarizing the contents, which vary from year to year, and some have notes about the year's officers and important activities. Some of the folders have fairly extensive documentation of the group's activities for the year, while others contain just an item or two.
Contains primarily correspondence, building plans, and administrative files as they relate to the development of the WSU Residence Halls from 1990-2004.
Manuscript journal in German of emigration from Baden to Canton, Ohio; typescript transcription of the diary; correspondence; certificates and clippings about Franz Buerer's daughter.
This collection consists of correspondence between author Ruby El Hult and Glen Lindeman, editor of the Washington State University Press, about the development of Hult's manuscript "The Keeper of the Brothel," about John W. Pinnell of Seattle.
Includes correspondence and memorabilia relating to Clint Carr's experiences in China in the early 1900s.
Files from the Instructional Media Service department. Records date back to when this department was part of general extension services. Files include general correspondence, reports, and audio-visual conference files.
This collection consists of a scrapbook assembled by Ortis C. Skaife to preserve memorabilia he collected during his military service in France between 1917 and 1919. Pasted into the scrapbook are military order forms, passes, reports, maps, tourist guides, photographs, newspaper clippings, etc. Skaife includes in the scrapbook a map of France that he used to track his travels during his military service with annotations and color-coding. The photographs included portray scenes of tourist locations, battles, soldiers, and two images of General John J. Pershing.
Office files from the ASWSU from 1979-1984. Including board of directors documents, articles of incorporation, and reprints. The collection is amalgamated files of President and others.
The audio recordings from Northwest Public Radio include not only finished radio programs, but also interviews taken for radio productions, short broadcast news items, and 'work' pieces that represent shows or presentations still in progress. A significant number of items are also recordings of WSU events, notably Murrow Symposia, Borah Symposia, convocations, and commencements.
Adrian V. Hall's notes from lectures given by Professor J. W. Adams.
Each bound collection details incoming and outgoing memoranda and other correspondence related to the WSU Agricultural Research Center from about 1979-1985.
This collection includes correspondence, clippings, photographs, licenses, QSL cards (written confirmations of radio communications) and other papers regarding Thomas W. Baird's amateur radio career.
This letter is addressed from Francis Meynell in London to Mr. Lambert, circa 1908. It deals with literary matters.
Letter of a farmer/blacksmith relative to life and work. Signed "William."
This collection consists of six items: letters from John Trowbridge to Norman and Sarah Smith about battles near Vicksburg, Mississippi. Typescript copies are included.
The oral history interviews of D. J. Crowley, Superintendent of the WSU Coastal Washington Research and Extension Unit, Long Beach, WA, were conducted by Azmi Y. Shawa in 1973. This collection consists of two cassette tapes. They were abstracted in 1979 by Margot Knight.
Miscellaneous documents relating to regions in and around Yakima, Washington, and the Dalles, Oregon. Includes commercial records: receipts, invoices, vouchers, and correspondence. Also includes material relating to Indian affairs, notably official documents from the 11th United States Census, Yakima Indian Agency, Washington State, 1890.
This collection consists of: photographs, scrapbooks of memorial tributes, and reprints of botanical publications of Charles Vancouver Piper.
This collection consists of: photocopies of correspondence, notes, speeches, memoranda, newspaper articles and other publications about rising German power in Europe, U.S. responsibilities overseas, the rebuilding of Europe after World War II, the United Nations War Crimes Commission, and the persecution of minorities. Correspondents include Franklin D. Roosevelt, and other government officials, diplomats and editors.
Correspondence received by G.H. Bliesner and H.L. Garver about rural electrification.
This collection includes Records and photos from the University Relations department. Records include Murrow Stamp Events, Foundation Campaign kickoff, "On Stage with" files, and Yakima Dedication files. This collection also consists of the Alumni Centennial files, and Internal communication study files.
The collection consists of the International Education department's records from 1983-1987. It includes administrative correspondence with foreign universities and individuals, sign up and booking forms, course equivalent catalogs, and administrative forms and enrollment data.
The papers of William Band consist chiefly of diaries, manuscripts of publications, and scattered correspondence. Also included are documents concerning Band's ancestors and family.
Typed letters and clippings re: Bayles Family, also a copy of: The Bayles book: the ancestors of the Bayles family in the United States, 1617-1900. The book was arranged by Eliza M. Bayles.
The papers in this collection consist of correspondence to and from Walt Horan, interfiled and combined with other manuscripts and printed materials used in his official work. The consist of: government documents, when these were important to his work and to the file for reference and record; pamphlets and similar ephemeral materials, both solicited and unsolicited, issued by government agencies and corporate bodies and organizations; working papers and materials used in the legislative processes on the floor of the Congress and in hearings, including Mr. Horan’s recorded participation and his bills; records of services rendered constituents in their personal and official intercourse with the government, civil and military; communications with constituents through radio, television, and newsletter; and political materials of national, regional, and local concern, including biennial campaigns.
Contains glass slides of plant life studied by the WSU Botany Department in the 1920s.
The collection consists primarily of game films of Washington State University men’s basketball, with a small of amount of non-game materials which are mostly promotional in nature. The majority of the game films take place between 2004 and 2008, with a few outliers. There are 59 VHS tapes, and 41 DVDs.
Where information about the source of the materials is given it is noted parenthetically. These include “TV,” presumably the televised broadcast; “truck” which would be the televised broadcast without commercials; and “from XXX” which are materials received from the school WSU was playing against. Some are labeled “offense, “defense,” or “offense/defense” – these were presumably coaching films, cut up and reordered to show only, for example, WSU’s defensive play. A few other parenthetical notes are included; all of these parenthetical notes, as well as all information about the contents, are taken from the labels, not from watching the actual videos. It is possible some videos are mislabeled.
The records cover the period from 1946 to 1974.
Correspondence, and other papers, primarily dealing with the Columbia Basin Irrigation League, concerning the Columbia Basin Project.
This collection contains papers of Dr. Fekri Hassan, a Professor in the Department of Anthropology at Washington State University, from 1983 to 1999. The collection consists of research notes and papers pertaining to: a cultural and scientific collaboration with the University of Rome "La Spienza," the rebuilding of the Royal Tombs of Thebes and Luxor, Rock-Drawings of Wadi Hammamat in Egypt, historical ecology, predynastic Egypt, stone gems, treatment of archaeological flint artifacts, Lake Kagati in Alaska, and the WSU and Zagazig University Research Cooperation Project. The collection also contains grant applications, research photographs, incoming correspondence, teaching materials, and copies of journal and magazine articles, many authored by Dr. Hassan.
Manuscript deed from Colfax, Washington; to Richard A. Truax.
Account of shipwreck at mouth of Columbia River, 1879. Contains manuscript additions. Also letter to Elmina White, February 2, 1935.
This collection comprises minutes, accounts, publications, and other records of the Washington State Veterinary Medical Association, 1909-1957.
Correspondence, minutes, directories, financial and other records of the wheat growers of Washington. Included are materials from the National Association of Wheat Growers.
An address delivered by Luther H. Evans, National Director of Historical Records Survey, Division of Women's and Professional Projects, W.P.A., at the conference on State and Local History held in connection with the annual meeting of the Pacific Coast Branch of the American Historical Association, Palo Alto, California.
Correspondence with John Galsworthy, Somerset Maugham, William Archer, Charles P. Trevelyan, Isabelle Smith, George Macaulay Trevelyan, and others. Principally regarding Portrait of a lady, after 1940.
Signed holograph re: Yakima War claims; included is a one-page biography of General Morton M. McCarver. The letter is addressed from Portland, Oregon, to Washington City.
This collection consists of professional papers of historian Thomas Kennedy, mainly correspondence, transcribed lectures, collected research materials, and writings by Kennedy and others. It includes files related to books, articles, and reviews authored by Kennedy, manuscripts of his thesis and dissertation, and reprints of journal articles.
This collection consists of incoming correspondence to Clive and Vanessa Bell (approximately 30 items), with most items addressed to Clive. Correspondents include Stephen Tallents, Eric MacLagan, John Pollock, H.J. Norton, Lyn Irvine (including one letter mentioning Mrs. Raven Hill), Sir George Grahame, Karen Costelloe, John Alford, Ivor Churchill, the Earl of Sandwich, George Lansbury, Clifford Sharp, F.H.S. Shepperd, Gilbert Seldes, Lord Evan Tredegar, C.E. Stuart, Max Eastman, E. Hilton Young, Col. Heward Bell. Topics include personal, political, and literary matters.
A genealogy of the Hamilton family, whose members made the overland journey to the Western United States.
Contains contract that mostly relate to the remodeling and repair of various buildings across all WSU campuses from 2000-2005. Notable projects consist of the remodel of the Fulmer Hall Annex and the razing of several buildings.
Files from ASWSU Student Legal Services from 1976-1982. The files pertain to a study done by the Student Legal Services department. Files contain participants answers, personal information, and study documentation.
This collection of soil scientist Walter H. Gardner's papers consists of correspondence, articles, speeches and other writings by Gardner; records related to his involvement in the Soil Science Society of America; papers related to his work as a faculty member at Washington State University, particularly the Faculty Status Committee and the Department of Agronomy; photographs and films. One of Gardner's special areas of interest was the movement of water in soil, and this subject is well represented in the collection. Gardner was a Guggenheim Fellow in 1964.
Preliminary inventory:
MS.1992.58:
Alphabetical files; Washington State University Faculty Status Committee Chair files, 1981-1982; Kenite Corp. v United States files; miscellaneous Honors Program materials; C. Clement French talks; College of Agriculture minutes of meetings regarding "defection from Graduate School"; Vandecaveye files on Western Soil and Water Research Committee, 1950-1953; personal and miscellaneous materials.
MS.2011.30:
Box 1
Biographical information; Invited Lectures and Talks (largely historical and golf) binder; John Hale Gardner binder; Utah scientists and involvement in soil physics research binder; Papers presented, abstracts binder; Washington State University subjects and Gardner writings, 1981 binder
Box 2
WSU topics and American Society of Agonomy binder; University and Society Affairs, misc. binder; Correspondence, presentations, writings, collected material, circa 1970-1973 binder; 1967 Bolivia, Turkey, International Atomic Energy Commission, Amsterdam, Prague, Sofia, Istanbul, Athens, Frankfurt, return to USA binder
Box 3
Written Materials, 1934-1934 binder; 1956-1963 binder; Written Materials, 1964-1969 binder; Written Materials, 1974-1977 binder
Box 4
Written Materials, 1978-1980 binder; Written Materials, 1981-1986 binder; Written Materials, 1987-1997 binder
Box 5
Soil Science Society of America, 1950-1977 binder; Soil Science Society of America. 1985-1988 binder; Soil Science Society of America binder; SSSA Council on History binder
Box 6
Soil Science Society of America. Includes responses to historical survey of soil scientists conducted in 1991, SSSA history by J. Fulton Lutz (1973), programs, etc.; Photographs (prints, slides, negatives)
Box 7
WSU Honors Program (1960-1970) Loose, unsorted material Gardner thesis and dissertation SSSA File of papers about water movement in soil, including information about the film in Box 8
Box 8
Film: "Water Movement in Soil" (WSU Crops and Soils Department)
Boxes 9-10: two unidentified films
Photographs, maps and correspondence about the floods in Goldendale, Washington from 1938 to 1961.
The records of the Yakima Cooperative Association contain the minutes and business records of the association for the period 1934-1967.
Letters from Lydia Lopokova, Desmond MacCarthy and others, 1913-1944.
This ledger is titled "Issues of Indian goods to Indians at Fort Colville, Wash. Territory," 1863-1875. It also contains accounts and notes.
This collection includes dated Showcase files, yearly faculty awards, and special guest files. Award Banquet files and Convocation files are included. Yearly Luncheon files and World Class Honors files are included. Photograph files and VHS recordings are included within this collection.

