This collection includes press releases and news clippings from the University of Chicago Public Relations Office. Boxes 1-13 contain bound volumes of all University press releases in quarterly volumes. Boxes 14-19 contain folders of unbound press releases and are organized in folders by departments.
This collection contains the planning and promotional materials for the 57th Street Art Fair, including meeting minutes, reports, posters, textiles, banners and buttons.
The Archival Buildings File was established in order to provide a means of organizing information and ephemeral materials relating to University buildings and making them more readily accessible.
Alton Abraham (1927-1999), entrepreneur and hospital technician, was a longtime friend and business associate of Sun Ra (1914-1993), the influential jazz composer and musician. Alton Abraham collected manuscripts, business records, printed ephemera, artifacts, photographs, audio and video recordings, and other documents of his work with Sun Ra. The collection contains textual, graphic, and audio-visual records of the work of Sun Ra and his collaborators, as well as professional and personal papers of Alton Abraham. The collection spans 1822-2008, with material concentrated in the late 1950s-1980s.
Jane Addams (September 6, 1860 – May 21, 1935), a preeminent figure in the history of the American Progressive Era, was a prolific advocate of social reform. The collection contains incoming and outgoing correspondence from 1894 to 1919, primarily documenting Addams work at Hull House.
Dr. Johann Friedrich Ahlfeld’s collection contains drawings of various medical deformities. The drawings are replications of illustrations found in two volumes containing 49 total plates.
The American Institute of Sacred Literature, which offered courses in the study of the Bible, was organized in 1889. The Institute grew out of the Correspondence School of Hebrew (established in 1880 by William Rainey Harper) which was renamed the American Institute of Hebrew in 1883. The AISL records contain primarily correspondence. Topics include Chautauqua summer schools, the Institute's relationship with the University of Chicago and William Rainey Harper, and the Modernist-Fundamentalist controversy. Also includes material on the founding of the Institute and courses taught.
Samuel King Allison (1900-1965), physicist. The papers document his career at the University of Chicago, both as student and faculty member, and his research on X-rays and lithium. The papers also include material on his service as director of the Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear Studies (1945-1965), and his chairmanship of the Physics Section of the National Academy of Sciences. The collection contains correspondence, manuscripts, notebooks, course notes, reprints, lectures, and speeches.
The Alumni Foundation was established in 1941 by University of Chicago alumni dedicated to raising money for undergraduate education. This collection tracks fundraising campaigns from 1941 to 1965, and contains correspondence, membership lists, minutes, progress reports, and scrapbooks. It includes the Foundation's "Honor Roll" of donors for 1942-1946.
Polly Scribner Ames (1908-1993) was a painter, sculptor, and writer who lived in Chicago, New York, and Europe. The Polly Scribner Ames papers contain manuscripts, correspondence, journals, and records of exhibitions and sales of artwork.
Van Meter Ames, author and Professor of philosophy. The Van Meter Ames Papers consist of articles, manuscripts, paper abstracts, and other items related to Van Meter Ames.
Michael Anania, poet, writer, editor, professor. The Michael Anania Papers contain drafts, manuscripts, proofs of books and poems, book reviews, publications, biographical material, college coursework, correspondence, ephemera, newspaper clippings, photographs, audio cassettes, compact discs, and video cassettes. The papers document Anania’s personal life, academic career, involvement in professional and literary organizations, and writing and editorial career.
C. Arnold Anderson (1907-1990), Professor of Education. The C. Arnold Anderson Papers consist of articles, notes, correspondence and manuscripts from 1937 to 1990.
The Department of Anthropology at the University of Chicago was founded in 1929 under the chairmanship of Fay-Cooper Cole. The collection comprises records of the department from its inception through 1997. It includes the Fay-Cooper Cole Papers, information and data from early archeological, linguistic and socio-cultural anthropological fieldwork, early materials on teaching and curriculum, files on department buildings and space, administrative and financial papers and documentation, faculty and staff information and student files.
The Archival Biographical File was established in order to organize and make accessible information on faculty members, officers, trustees, staff members, and other individuals related to the University. The materials have been received from many sources, although the largest portion has come from the Office of University News and Information and its predecessors.
This collection contains illustrations by the Russian-American artist Boris Artzybasheff (1899-1965) produced from 1929 to 1965, and collected by Roman Weil. The material in the collection ranges from magazine covers, industrial advertisements, a map, large advertising poster prints, and a woodblock print. Like the wide-ranging media found in the collection, a researcher can expect to find a wide range in subject matters within the collection. The images describe foreign leaders, American political leaders, anthropomorphized machinery, descriptive maps, technological innovations, political satire, and poetic figurations.
The Atomic Scientists of Chicago (ASC) was founded in September 1945 at the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of Chicago to address the moral and social responsibilities of scientists regarding the use of nuclear energy and to promote public awareness of its possible consequences. Members included J. A. Simpson, Jr., Kenneth Cole, Farrington Daniels, James Franck, Lester Guttman, Thorfin Hogness, Robert Mulliken, Glenn Seaborg, Leo Szilard, Harold Urey, and Walter Zinn. ASC sponsored conferences, lobbied for policies and in December 1945 began publishing the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. The collection contains correspondence, subject files, financial records, manuscripts, newspaper clippings, conference material, membership records, and reports. It also includes material relating to the Chicago Committee for Civilian Control of Atomic Energy, the Association of Scientists for Atomic Education, the Federation of American Scientists, the University Office of Inquiry into the Social Aspects of Atomic Energy, and the papers of Lester Guttman.
Zines collected by Jake Austen, founder of Roctober Magazine. The zines were collected in Chicago at fairs and other events, and by mail from around the country, often in trade for issues of Roctober.
The collection contains documents from the American Veterans Council, founded in 1944 and disbanded in 2003. The American Veterans Council was a liberal Veterans’ organization that sought to protect and extend Democracy. The collection spans from 1946-1973, with the bulk of the collection from 1946-1958. Researchers interested in union and or Veterans history, especially with regards to Chicago, will find this collection useful.
Bound materials collected and compiled by William E. Barton, a pastor in Oak Park, Illinois, who published and lectured on Abraham Lincoln. The collection includes books, booklets, scrapbooks, pamphlets, published addresses, and periodicals. Of particular interest is the volume titled Lincoln and His Cabinet. These codex manuscripts form part of the William E. Barton Collection of Lincolniana.
George Wells Beadle, professor, university administrator. The George Wells Beadle papers include speeches, correspondence, subject files, inauguration papers, invitations, press releases, newspaper clippings, offprints, calendars, honorary degrees and certificates, photographs, albums, medals and plaques.
The Henry H. Belfield and Belfield Family Papers consists of letterbooks, personal correspondence, and other papers of Henry H. Belfield, 1849-1913, and correspondence and papers of Belfield's parents and other relatives, 1844-1967. The Henry H. Belfield and Belfield Family Papers Addenda consists of Henry H. Belfield's 1904 diary as well as newspaper clippings and inserts found in the diary.
William Benton (1900-1973) was an advertising executive, publisher, university administrator, U.S. senator and diplomat. Contains personal and professional correspondence, reports, legal documents, account books, diaries, manuscripts, speeches, research notes, transcripts of radio and television broadcasts, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, photographs, awards, and mementos. Papers highlight Benton's business and investment successes as well as his contributions to education and public affairs. Includes material relating to Encyclopaedia Britannica (1941-1973); Encyclopaedia Britannica Films (1939-1973); America First Committee; the Committee for Economic Development (1942-1973); Muzak (1941-1973); Benton & Bowles (1925-1973); the U.S. State Department (1941-1973); UNESCO (1946-1973); the McCarthy era; the establishment of Voice of America; the University of Chicago Board of Trustees; the Benton Foundation (1958-1973) commitments to Brandeis University, the University of Bridgeport, the University of Connecticut, the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies, and the American Shakespeare Festival; and Connecticut and national politics (1948-1973).
The Department of Building and Grounds Records, Series I, consists of the files of Lyman R. Flook (1889-1954), Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds from 1919 to 1953 and Superintendent of Construction from 1927 to 1932. Although some specifications for buildings completed before 1926 are included, the bulk of the collection consists of records of buildings erected during the University’s expansion program of 1926-1931. In addition to general and mechanical specifications, the collection contains records of the planning, daily building progress, furnishings, equipment, symbolism, and costs of individual structures. Series II documents the University’s efforts to start remodeling, re-tooling, and expanding after the Great Depression and World War II. They include correspondence, faculty minutes, construction records, and financial records pertaining to new buildings and records of alterations on older structures. They also include some files on projects that never came to fruition such as a University-built fraternity quadrangle, and a parking facility beneath the Midway Plaisance.
Martin Hayes Bickham, sociologist (University of Chicago, A.M. 1919, Ph.D. 1922). The Martin Hayes Bickham Papers consist of materials from coursework in the Sociology Department and Divinity School (1912-1922), correspondence relating to his appointment as secretary of the University of Chicago Christian Association (1911), materials related to his dissertation research (1922), correspondence with Amos Alonzo Stagg (1950s-1960s), and 1938-1939 correspondence related to his dissertation research. The collection also contains photographs and memorabilia from Bickham’s work with the Y.M.C.A. during the First World War in France.
Jean Friedberg Block was a University of Chicago expert and a renowned scholar of the architecture and peopling of Hyde Park and the University. Block’s papers include general information about the University from the early-to-mid 20th century. Series I contains general correspondence and other information about the University’s development. Series II contains material pertinent to “The Uses of Gothic,” a 1985 exhibit in the Special Collections Resource Center, which was largely authored and coordinated by Ms. Block.
This collection includes documents relating to the research and publication of Leonard Bloomfield and Clarence L. Barnhart’s linguistic approach to teaching children to read titled Let’s Read ¬– a Linguistic Approach. Further, it also includes documents related to the publication of the revised edition. The collection contains materials dating from the 1930s to 2010, with the majority of materials originating from the 1950s -1960s.
Reuben Thomas Durrett (1824-1913), lawyer, manuscript and book collector, and Kentucky historian. This collection contains the papers of the Boggs family of Fayette County, Kentucky. The bulk of the collection relates to the economic activities of Robert C. Boggs (1793-1863), and his brother James H. Boggs (1796-1829). Also included in the collection are several arithmetic books.
Amy Bonner (1891-1955) journalist and poet. From 1937-1947 she served as Poetry’s eastern business representative. The bulk of the Papers represent the correspondence Bonner received as Poetry’s business representative. Also included is a small amount of earlier correspondence, particularly with Harriet Monroe.
The Bonney Family Civil War Letters collection is comprised of 48 letters written to their parents by Daniel, James, and Seth Bonney, soldiers in Massachusetts regiments during the Civil War. With the exception of one letter from Seth, written in 1868, the correspondence in the collection falls within the period 1860-1864, and describes the various experiences of the three brothers in camp, field, prison, and hospital.
Founded in 1894 under the leadership of John M. Coulter, The University of Chicago Department of Botany quickly grew to become one of modern botany's most influential centers of research and teaching. The work of Henry C. Cowles and others associated with the Chicago school of ecology is generally regarded as one of the most influential forces in the development of ecological studies. This collection includes administrative files, publications, memorabilia and artifacts, and a large collection of photographs documenting plant life, environmental phenomena, and departmental activities.
Mary Jean Bowman (1908-2002) University of Chicago economist best known for her work on the economics of education. The Mary Jean Bowman papers contain published work by Bowman as well as manuscript drafts, notes, and research and teaching materials. The collection also includes reprints and manuscripts by other scholars, correspondence, and some personal files.
Amory Howe Bradford, minister. The Amory H. Bradford Papers consist of a sermon titled "The Unity of the World" (1897).
Jerald Brauer, historian, minister, professor, and dean.
The Jerald Brauer Papers consist of ninety-three and a half linear feet and include correspondence, memos, minutes, reports, manuscripts, notes, speeches, published materials, and audio recordings. The papers document Brauer's career as a historian, professor of the history of Christianity in the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, Dean of the Federated Theological Faculties and the Divinity School, and author and editor of many scholarly books.
The Rachel Fuller Brown Notebooks collection consists chiefly of class and laboratory notes relating to chemistry courses taken during Brown's years at the University. Included also are notes and materials from a summer course taken at Harvard University. These materials have been arranged in three series: notes identified by the name of the instructor and the course number; notes identified only by course or subject; and miscellaneous notebooks.
The collection contains records of the Baptist Theological Union, including minutes and administrative records, correspondence, financial information, and news clippings, documenting the early history of the B.T.U. and the activities of its governing board and committees.
 Digby Bell Butler, poet, lawyer, judge. The Digby B. Butler Papers
consist of a scrapbook, a manuscript, and newspaper articles.
Baptist Union Theological Seminary was founded in 1865 by the Baptist Theological Union. The Seminary eventually became the Divinity School of the present-day University of Chicago in 1892.
Mrs. Campbell was an actress and her collection contains primarily correspondence but also includes photographs, newspaper clippings, playbills, and broadsides. Most of the letters are addressed to Mrs. Frank (Harriett) Carolan, later Mrs. Arthur Schermerhorn.
LeRoy T. Carlson (1916- ) graduated from the College at the University of Chicago in 1938, going on to earn his M.B.A. from Harvard University in 1941. He served with the Persian Gulf Command during World War II, helping secure supply lines to Russia in Iran. From 1942 to 1943, he worked as an assistant treasurer at the General Motors plant in Calcutta, India. Carlson founded Telephone and Data Systems in 1970, a Fortune 500 company, and has maintained a relationship with the University of Chicago, sponsoring the LeRoy T. and Margaret Deffenbaugh Carlson University Professorship. The bulk of his collection contains materials from his time spent abroad during the years 1942 to 1944.
Henry Northrup Castle (1862-1895) Journalist and political leader in Honolulu. Attended Oberlin College. The papers contain personal correspondence, college essays and other writings, the personal correspondence of Castle's immediate family, miscellaneous family papers, and typed copies and printer's proofs of a volume of Castle's letters that were edited by George and Helen (Castle's sister) Mead in 1902. Letters include correspondence with George Herbert Mead.
The Chicago Citizens' Police Committee, 1929-1931, was formed to investigate the Chicago Police Department. The results of the study were published in The Chicago Police Problems. The records include correspondence of Leonard D. White, second chairman and treasurer of the Committee; financial statements; and minutes of the committee.
The Contemporary Chamber Players, a music collective based at University of Chicago, was founded in 1964 by Ralph Shapey (1921-2002), a composer and member of the university's Department of Music. The Contemporary Chamber Players performed new works by 20th century composers, and under Shapey's guidance became one of the nation's premier ensembles for contemporary art music. This collection includes the ensemble's correspondence, financial records, touring information, publicity material, performance information, and audio recordings of performances.
The University of Chicago Central Administration Letterbooks contain carbon copies of outgoing correspondence of university presidents, vice-presidents, and other officials, between the years 1927 and 1957. This correspondence covers academic and administrative matters.
The Committee to Frame a World Constitution was first convened in the fall of 1945 as part of the post-World War II World Federalist movement. The Records contain correspondence and miscellaneous material reflecting the close relations between the Committee and other organizations advocating some form of world government. The papers are comprised of the files of the Committee secretariat, which was also the editorial staff for the journal Common Cause.
Caleb Stockton Chambers (born circa 1815) was a student in Washington, Pennsylvania, presumably at Washington & Jefferson College. This collection contains a selection of letters written to Chambers by his family members in 1832 and 1833.
From 1945 through 1986, the University of Chicago Chess Club ranked among the nation’s finest intercollegiate teams, winning the national championship a record seven times. These records contain membership lists, correspondence, match summaries, and newspaper clippings relating to the team which were compiled between 1965 and 1984 by former Chess Club president, Harold Winston.
Dorothy Crowder Chessman, teacher. The Dorothy Crowder Chessman Papers consist of a manuscript from 1987 titled “University of Chicago Days.” In it Chessman describes her experiences as a student at the University of Chicago.
Chicago Alumnae Club. The Chicago Alumnae Club Records consists of minutes, historical notes about the club, publicity and club notices, and programs and invitations from 1898 to 1942.
The Hillary Chute Collection contains 27 comics from 1972-1994, including four issues of Marvel’s The Cat (1972-3), 20 issues of DC’s Catwoman from 1989-1994, and one issue each of Green Arrow (DC, 1994), Felicia Hardy: The Black Cat (Marvel, 1994) and Wizard Magazine (1994). Collected by Hillary L. Chute, professor of American literature and art.
The Chicago Mechanics' Institute was chartered in 1843 to provide education to mechanics, apprentices, and other workingmen. The records contain correspondence concerning the Institute's educational activities, reports, minutes, membership lists, legal documents, financial records, and historical materials.
Orator F. Cook, botanist. The Orator F. Cook Papers consist of materials pertaining to Cook's activities in Liberia from 1889 to 1898 including correspondence, clippings, business records and photographs. The collection also includes biographical materials about Cook.
John Merle Coulter (1851-1928), botanist and chair of the Botany Department of the University of Chicago, 1896-1926. The Papers contain the correspondence and personal papers of Coulter’s parents, relating mainly to a brief missionary tour to China. The collection also includes letters and school mementos, drafts of many of Coulter's postwar lectures and articles, and miscellaneous papers relating to his activities during the last five years of his life.
Founded by John Crerar and J. McGregor Adams ca. 1868, Crerar, Adams & Co. was a leading supplier to the railroad industry. This small collection contains trade catalogs from the early and mid-twentieth century, as well as documents relating to the estates of one of the firm's partners, Edward S. Shepherd, and his wife Julia M. Shepherd.
Manuscript collection of cooking recipes. Includes recipes and home remedies. Also includes newspaper clippings, pasted in, with additional loose recipes in multiple hands, laid in.
Manuscript collection in several hands, of cooking recipes and home remedies from Liverpool, England.
Handwritten cookbook, based upon classes at Edward Kidder's London cooking school.
Manuscript cookbook preceded by Ladurelle's dedication of the manuscript to Monsieur Druart, Curé de Baulny. Includes calendar of a culinary year, lists of utensils, spices, and prepared menus. Also includes descriptive summary of contents by Bertrand Guégan, in 20th-century hand, interleaved. Accompanied by typescript, partial translation of Guégan's summary into English, with additional commentary, pasted in.
Typescript, biographical essay on Goethe's medical history and interests in medicine.
Typed carbon copies in German, of geological studies made of chalky formations at Frankfurt-am-Main, and of caves at Stromberg and Dinkelberg. Illustrated with photographs, pasted in, and oversize diagrams, folded in.
Manuscript study of lichens. Extensively illustrated with pen and ink, and ink and watercolor drawings.
Handwritten copy in German, of Kayser's article, "Die devonischen Bildungen der Eifel."
Manuscript copy of text, and pen and ink copies after plates selected from Flora danica (Copenhagen: 1761-99), accompanied by descriptive notes from W. Hudson, Flora anglica (London: 1762). Also includes manuscript of abridged selections from G. Acerbi, Travels through Sweden, Finland, and Lapland to the North Cape in the years 1798 and 1799 (London: 1802).
Manuscript copies in ruled journal excerpting essays from various sources including The Philosophical Journal and Advocate of Natural History (June: 1835); the Royal Linnean Society's Minute Book; [Ben] Silliman's Journal; and American Antiquities.
Contains letters from Spallanzani to Fortunato Mandelli, Leopoldo Marco Antonio Caldani,and an unknown correspondent. Also includes a 19th-century copy after Angelo Pallaveri, "Commemorazione di Lazzaro Spallanzani," that contains a short biography and list of Spallanzani's works.
Manuscript of official report of the verbal proceedings of the Classe des Scienceae, Physiques, et Math‚matiques, Institut de France, 31 August 1812, presenting the findings of [Claude] Berthollet, Jauquelin, and Chenard, regarding Cluzel's work with "liquid sulfur." Findings approved and adopted by the Classe des Scienceae.
Formal holograph lecture notes, taken by Russell Sage, Jr. at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York. Volume One: "Rational mechanics." Volume Two: "Physical mechanics." Volume Three: "Technical mechanics."
Manuscript text on mathematics. Illustrated with colored diagrams. Volume One: "Spherical Geometry, or Stereographic Problems." Volume Two: "Algebra."
Typescript paper, on geometry. Illustrated with blueprints and charts.
Scrapbooks containing manuscript notes, correspondence, advertisements, clippings, and diagrams. Material relates to motors. All material tipped or pasted in. Volume one: "Experiments - Researches, Plan - Data...Relating to Domestic Motors." Volume two: Clippings or articles on electro-magnetic, locomotive, gas, air, steam, and rotary engines. Volume three: Clippings on electromagnetic power, with advertisements and articles on sewing and flying machines, and manuscript notes on motors.
Facsimile of title page, leaves 27-40, and two illustrations from part II of Joannis Poleni "Miscellenea." Also includes typewritten English translation of "Miscellanea" by J. Lestrohan, as "Miscellaneous Scientific Works of John Poleni."
Scrapbook of clippings from the United States, England, France, Germany, and Italy, concerning early attempts at manned flight made ca. 1870-1910. Includes related correspondence, holograph notes and articles, typed copies of articles, and photographs. Assembled by Octave Chanute.
Edwin Raymond Le Count (1868-1935) pathologist, academic, and resident at Rush Medical College. The collection includes correspondence, notebooks, writings, newspaper clippings, drawings, legal documents and ephemera. Materials date between 1886 and 1935. The majority of the materials date between 1910 and 1930. The papers provide insight into Le Count’s activities both at the university as well as within the field of scholarship, particularly as detailed through his correspondence with others in the field.
Contains correspondence, manuscript notes, bibliography, printed essays, photostats, and typed notes on early aviation. Partly collected by J. Sherwin Murphy. Includes transcribed typewritten copies of correspondence between Herring and Octave Chanute, selected by Pearl I. Young.
Scrapbook of published papers on aeronautics by H. Moedebeck. Includes printed copy of "Die Elasticität der Feder und des Flugels" (Zeitschrift für Luftschiffahrt und Physik der Atmosphäre, 1895) and "Der Bau des Registrirballons 'Strassburg' (Zeitschrift für Luftschiffahrt und Physik der Atmosphäre, 1897). Also includes a manuscript of the English translation of the first article, "On the Elasticity of the Feather and the Wing;" a summary in English of the second article; and a typescript of Moedebeck's essay, "The International Meteorological Balloon Ascensions." Material was collected by Octave Chanute
Reports in German on medical and physician's taxes in Mecklenburg-Schwerin.
Scrapbook of typescript, manuscript, and printed material relating to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, Galena and Chicago Union Railroad, John Frink Express Company, and American Express Company. Includes letters, instructions to agents, orders, bills, receipts, contracts, rates of fare, and additional reports of local railroads and other companies, including Western Union.
Photostat copy of original manuscript report by George Whistler to Count Kleinmichel on the gauge of track to be used in the St. Petersburg and Moscow Railroad. Also includes typescript copy of the manuscript and a copy of a letter from Ralph Budd offering the copies to the Newberry Library (1944).
Scrapbook of correspondence, completed questionnaires, draft reports, and news clippings. Material relates to the investigation of the American pork industry by a special committee appointed by the President of the United States
Manuscript study on the public and economic administration of the Netherlands. Delivered as lectures at the University of Leiden, 1806-1807.
Tyepscript records of the United Mine Workers of Illinois, documenting the inquest into the Cherry mine fire, Cherry, Illinois. Each volume contains records of sworn testimony, with coroner's report.
Handwritten catalog, compiled by J. Christian Bay, of titles collected by Augustus Rivinus. Listing primarily features botanical works, but includes subjects "philologico-philosophico-historicorum, itinerariorum, inprimis autem medicorum, botanicorum et historiae naturalis scriptorum &c.rariorum quam magno studio et sumptu sibi comparavit."
Typed carbon copies of press releases issued by Century of Progress, Publicity Division, Chicago.
Typewritten comparative reports regarding financing, expenses, logistics, and publicity of the World's Columbian Exposition (Chicago, 1893), Louisiana Purchase Exhibition (St. Louis, 1904), Panama-California Exposition (San Diego, 1915), and Panama-Pacific Exposition (San Francisco, 1915). Prepared for the Chicago World's Fair Centennial Celebration, 1933.
I) Typed carbon copy of notes taken by Dr. Bell, on Dr. Michel's method of removing exterior tumors with acidic paste. Assembled by Dr. Bell, after studying under Dr. Michel in Paris beginning in Fall, 1868. Includes preface by Dr. Bell. II) Holograph leaf of notes [by Dr. Williams], regarding Nordhausen acid, pasted on last page. Bell's notes copied by Dr. Williams. Inscribed on wrapper: "Fuming Sulphuric A[cid]. The new specialty for Cancer, [recorded] by Dr. Bell (London, England about - year 1860 - (Dr. Michel's Paste)/ This is a copy (made by Dr. Williams in year 1914)/ The Original is in the Surgeon General's Library/Washington, D.C." Bound in paper.
Contains correspondence related to the organization of a Board of Public Libraries. Also includes recommendations, reports, and charters of the City Charter Committee of the Chicago Library Club, the Committee on State Legislation of the City Council, and Art Commission.
Three scrapbooks containing clippings, printed tracts, correspondence, and carbon copies of articles related to the social use and abuse of alcohol.
Reports on committee expenditures and field investigations of Illinois orphanages, prisons, reform schools, poorhouses, and asylums.
46 platinum print photographs of sailing ships. Accompanied by handwritten descriptions of each vessel's origin and functions on verso. Also includes typescript index.
Manuscript notations charting oceanographic data on the North Sea. Entries made on printed navigation forms.
I) Handwritten letter in French, from Louis Pasteur, Paris, to an unidentified man, November 27, 1881, on the subject of his vaccine; II) Keepsake cardboard folder containing "Une ‚vocation charmante et inattendue des dans pr‚coses de Pasteur," in reference to reproductions of portrait drawings of M. & Mlle. Roch, 1839, "dessin‚ par Pasteur a l'ƒge de 16 ans et demi..."
Bound volume of newspaper clippings compiled by Jens Christian Bay concerning primarily the Pulitzer Prize. Includes articles on general information and recipients. The volume also includes clippings on lynching, chivalry, Southern American culture, and international politics.
Ten unbound, handwritten sheets in French. Lists of instructions to help diagnose and treat various illnesses.
Account book from England with entries for various railroad companies, docks, and other transportation-related companies. Individuals are also represented.
Handwritten student notes on Benjamin Rush's lectures on the basic physiological and psychological make-up and processes of human beings.
Autograph postcard signed.
A bound volume of clippings pasted in on the Boston subway mainly from the Boston Globe.
Typed copy of Sand's introductory lecture delivered at the Institute of Legal Medicine of the University of Copenhagen, September 9, 1925, on the history of legalized medicine.
Seven scrapbooks containing clippings, loose manuscripts, and pamphlets on the process of making water gas.
Photo-micrographs of microscopic sections of the leaves of North American Abietineæ.
Handwritten study in German, on the combined symptoms of heart disease, goiter, and "bulging eyes." Submitted for "das Tentamen zur medizinischen Facultätsprϋfing" at the University of Göttingen.
The Society of Medical History of Chicago was founded in 1909 "to secure and preserve matters pertaining to the history of medical institutions, organizations and individuals particularly of Chicago and the adjacent country; and to stimulate interest in medical history in general." Original members of the society's council included George H. Cleveland, Henry T. Byford, Nathan S. Davis, John Edwin Rhodes, George H. Weaver, and Ludvig Hektoen. The records of the Society of Medical History of Chicago include the organization's administrative documents, as well as its collections of historic material on the history of medicine
Correspondence, handwritten notes, photographs, medical reports, clippings, lantern slides, sketches, and typescript materials of ophthalmologist Ernst Kraupa (fl. 1910-1950). Materials in German. Crerar manuscript 340.
Formal lecture notes in Latin, taken by John Manning, from Bernhard Siegfried Albinus' lectures on anatomy at the University of Leyden.
A copy of Karl Milla’s Die Flugbewegung der Vögel (1895) as well as a handwritten partial translation into English, both belonging to Octave Chanute (1832-1910). Crerar Manuscript 406.
Extracted or reprinted articles by French mammalologist, ornithologist, and carcinologist Alphonse Milne-Edwards (1835-1900), in one volume with accompanying plates. Materials in French. Crerar Manuscript 407.
Lecture notes in German, taken by Wilh[elm] Baum, from Adolph Friedrich Hempel's medical lectures at Göttingen.
Informal lecture notes in German, on human physiology.
Typed copies of reports, minutes, and official correspondence of the Chicago Pediatric Society. Includes Constitution (1923). Membership list, undated. Minutes (1897-1928). Treasurer's accounts (1899-1910).
Formal and informal lecture notes, on paper and leatherbound notebooks, taken by D.E. Burlingam from medical school courses on diseases and their treatment, taught by Professor N. S. Davis, Prof. Andrews, Dr. Sherman, etc., at Chicago Medical College, Mercy Hospital, and Cook County Hospital.
Manuscript lecture notes on midwifery.
Album with seventy-five sheets of drawings, engravings, and watercolors, of forceps drawn by various artists, arranged alphabetically by names of inventors. Accompanied by historical description of illustrated forceps and related holograph correspondence in German, French, and English. Tipped into heavy brown paper. Collected and with descriptive text by Dr. August Eduard Martin. See also Crerar Ms. 53.
Handwritten notes in German (probably on birthing procedures), in hand which corresponds to other holograph material identified as copies by Eduard Martin, Johannes Christian Stark's pupil and successor.
Abstract in English by J. Christian Bay, after Lundsgaard's Brillernes Historie (Copenhagen: V. Trynde, 1913), on the history of corrective lenses. Illustrated with sketches.
Manuscript treatise with marginal notations on the anatomy of the eye and the mechanics of vision.
Records of the regular monthly and annual meetings of the Chicago Laryngological and Ontological Society.
Manuscript, informal lecture notes in German, from Tröltsch's medical lectures on the ear. Illustrated with sketches. Bound in modern half cloth over marbled paper. Former call number 617.802 N001. No Crerar accession number.
Manuscript, prepared lectures in French, on internal pathology. Includes index. I) "Appareils de la vie de relation: 1e de l'Innervation, 2e de la Locomotion"; II) "Appareil de l'Innervation: centres nerveux - nerfs - sensations."
Essay in German, on pathology and pharmacology, in two parts. I) "Erste Abtheilung: Allgemeine Nosologie"; II) "Zweite Abtheilung: Allgemeine Heilmittellehre."
Typed, carbon copy translation of Iuschenko's work on mental disease. Translated into English by Dr. Bayard Holmes, based upon the German translation of Iuschenko's original Russia text. Includes typed bibliography and index of names, with holograph subject index.
Typescript medical study with handwritten annotations, on the pathology of the lung. Extensively illustrated with photographs. Volume One: "History and resume of surgical conditions found therein and experimental and clinical research in lower animals with reference to pneumonotomy, pneumonectomy, & bronchiotomy." Volume Two: "Experimental research on the lung of the dog with reference to ineumenotomy and pneumonectomy."
Typescript and holograph medical articles by Holmes and other authors in English and German, on mental illness and related topics. Includes autobiographical essays.
Consists of typed carbon copy assessment of laboratory conditions at Cook County, prepared for the Council of the Chicago Medical Society by a committee of the Association of County Hospital Laboratory Employees, headed by Dr. Holmes, 1917 Oct. 9. Also includes TLS from Holmes to Dr. Adam Szwajkart, Superintendent, Psychopathic Hospital, and to Dr. John Nuzum, Pathologist, Cook County Hospital, 1917 Nov. 13.
Manuscript on the symptoms and effects of castor oil bean poisoning. Written on the back typed letters from Holmes's office. Two pencil illustrations, pasted in.
Consists of correspondence between Holmes and various individuals on the subject of mental illness. Includes a letter from Norman P. Willard to Dr. Vincent on Holmes's work in dementia praecox. Also contains reports. In addition to dementia praecox, topics refer to laboratory buildings in Cook County, Illinois, and guidelines for establishing a medical history of mentally ill patients.
Correspondence from Margaret Deland to Hugo Erichsen, on the subject of Dr. LeMoyne.
Brainerd Currie (1912-1965), Law Professor. The Papers consist primarily of articles written by Currie between 1957 and 1960. Included are drafts, notes, proofs and offrints, and related correspondence. Also in the collection are drafts of humorous poems and lyrics, including "The Rose of Aberlone."
Allison Davis (1902-1983), Professor of Education. The papers contain reprints, manuscripts, and annotated drafts, field notes and various interview data from key projects, correspondence and enclosures, research notes, and associated works by colleagues.
The Recorder's Office Records consist of two volumes relating investigations of student misconduct and disciplinary action taken against students between 1908 and 1933; a volume regarding degrees conferred before 1893 by the Old University of Chicago and by the Baptist Union Theological Seminary; and published reports of the Recorder’s Office, 1904-1908.
Founded in Chicago in 1864 by Canadian immigrant Richard Robert Donnelley, R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company is a leading global provider of printing and print-related services. The archive contains business records, product samples and promotional material, biographical files and personal papers, historical writings and oral histories, artifacts, and thousands of documentary photographs. While the material in this collection is concentrated in the twentieth century, the content of the archive spans over 140 years of RR Donnelley's development, and contextualizes the company within both the history of printing and the history of Chicago.
The Dave Dugan Zen Comix Collection contains five artworks from 2015-2017: The Beerfoot Servants, Jack in the Box, and Tampon Platitudes from 2015, Electric Mud from 2016, and an untitled collection of 14 large-scale comics from 2016-2017.
The papers of Everett Cherrington Hughes comprise 73.5 linear feet of professional material. The papers document his career as a sociologist and educator, as well as his research in occupations, race relations, and education. The collection consists of a large body of correspondence; course materials from McGill University, the University of Chicago, Brandeis University and Boston College, and lectures, articles, book reviews, and translations. The collection also includes research material, travel diaries, and memoranda by Hughes; studies on occupations done for Canada's Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism, and his studies on undergraduate and medical education carried out at the University of Kansas. Some material by Helen MacGill Hughes on the American Sociological Association's Ad-Hoc Committee on the Status of Women in the Profession can also be found in this collection.
This collection consists of an album of photographs and a social invitation. The album contains 40 photographs of the Edward Morris House, located at 4800 S. Drexel Boulevard in Chicago. The photographs depict both interior and exterior views of the house, the garage, and the greenhouse. Some of the photographs focus specifically on the landscaping. The home was designed by Howard Van Doren Shaw and was completed in 1913. The landscape plan for the gardens has been attributed to Rose Standish Nichols. The invitation is dated 1919 and requests that Edward Morris, Jr., attend dinner at the Royal Canadian Yacht Club, Toronto, to meet the Prince of Wales.
Albert Einstein (1879-1955) Nobel Prize-winning theoretical physicist The collection includes correspondence and manuscripts written and received by Einstein from 1921 to 1954, the largest portion of which are letters and manuscripts exchanged Einstein and University of Chicago philosopher Charles Wegener in association with the translation and publication of “Physics and Reality,”
The Alfred E. Emerson Papers consist of seven linear feet and cover the period 1917 to 1976. The papers contain correspondence, calendars, lecture notes, photographs, committee and foundation records, as well as articles and reprints. Alfred Emerson was a professor of zoology and a central figure in what became known as the "Chicago school" of ecology. He developed a model of biological evolution in which the social group, rather than the individual organism, constitutes a superorganism that is the primary unit of natural selection. Much of his extensive research involved the study of termite physiological morphology and behavior.
The Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc., Board of Editors Records consists of minutes from of board meetings from 1949 to 1959. Also included are newspaper clippings, magazines, typescripts, and memoranda concerning the Encyclopaedia Britannica through 1968.
Letters and manuscripts sent by Sandburg to Falkenau between 1919 and 1930. Includes two poems and a short story.
Ella Tilles Falk attended the University of Chicago as an undergraduate from 1919 to 1923. The collection contains a scrapbook documenting her undergraduate life, and includes event programs and tickets, clippings, photographs, notes from friends, party place cards, and other ephemera. With the exception of one letter, material in the collection dates from 1919 to 1923.
The Fallers, Lloyd A. Papers comprise 28 linear feet of materials including personal and professional correspondence, field notes and research materials, course materials, and manuscripts concerning other professional associations and projects in which he was engaged. The papers contain materials generated by Fallers while pursuing research into colonialism and independence in East Africa, modernization in Turkey, and more general topics of social stratification and status. The collection also includes field materials collected by Margaret Chave Fallers.
Shirley Farr, student, faculty instructor, donor. The Shirley Farr Papers consist of a letter from Daisy E. Wood to the residents of Beecher Hall at the University of Chicago (1904); copy of The College Girls' Record, annotated by Farr; and photographs.
Fred Eggan (1906-1991) Anthropologist. Papers contain a wide variety of materials and media including correspondence, original manuscripts, teaching materials, field notes pertaining to Eggan's research among Native American groups and in the Philippines, microfilm, photographs, slides, and audio recordings. The papers date from 1870-1991 and cover all phases of Eggan's career as an anthropologist, documenting his earliest graduate and post-graduate field research, his work as teacher and administrator at the University of Chicago, his research and writing on native North American and Philippine cultures, and his extensive professional connections with many of the leading social scientists of the twentieth century.
Philip Fox (1878-1944) astronomer and first Director of the Adler Planetarium. Contains sixteen notebooks of astronomical observations and calculations in Berlin and at Yerkes Observatory and Dearborn Observatory, photographs and a recording.
Carlos de Francisco Zea (1936-1991), poet and professor, was a student at the University of Chicago and received his PhD in Germanic Language and Literature in 1970. In 1989, a book of his poems was published, entitled Libros de Poesía. Francisco Zea was an active poet throughout the years 1959-1990, and this collection contains drafts, typescripts, and manuscripts of his work. Also included are his translations of the work of Juan Ramón Jiménez.
The papers of Henry Gordon Gale comprise 12.5 linear feet of personal and professional material, spanning the years 1889-1948. The materials document Gale's career as a physicist, from his time as a student in the early years of the University of Chicago, to his retirement from the Faculty of the Physics Department in 1940. The papers consist of professional and personal correspondence; notes, manuscripts, and reprints; and personal material such as photographs, biographical material, and documents from his Army service and university employment. The collection also includes some correspondence and personal material of his wife, Agnes Spofford Cook Gale.
The Charles Whitney Gilkey papers contain correspondence primarily concerning the University Chapel, and the Committee on the Presidency of the University (1928-1929). The collection also contains the minutes of the Commission for the Study of Moral and Religious Influence and Agencies in Higher Education, as well as several published articles by Gilkey.
Langdon Brown Gilkey taught at the Divinity School of the University of Chicago from 1963 until his retirement in 1989. He was a prominent protestant theologian, an expert on the relation between science and religion, and a key respondent to the rise of intelligent design as a way of teaching creationism. During 1940-1945 he taught at Yenching University (now part of Peking University) in Beijing, China, then occupied by the Japanese, and from 1943 to 1945 he was interned along with other Allied civilians at the Weihsien Internment Camp (or Weihsien Civilian Assembly Center). The collection contains official and personal correspondence, notes, manuscripts and typescripts, newspaper clippings, postcards, periodicals and other publications, photographs, and administrative documents dating between 1934 and 2004. The bulk of the material dates between 1940-1945 and 1954-2004. The papers primarily document Langdon Gilkey’s life in China during the Second World War and his professional career as theologian, academician, and professor at the Divinity School of the University of Chicago and other institutions.
Harold Foote Gosnell (1896-1997) was a political scientist at the University of Chicago during the 1920s and 1930s. He also worked for the federal government and spent the latter part of his academic career at American and Howard Universities. He was renowned for his work on voter behavior, particularly with reference to African-American politics and Chicago politics. The Harold F. Gosnell Papers contain correspondence, teaching materials, writings, and research files spanning 1886-1997.
Louis Gottschalk, historian, author, Professor. The Louis Gottschalk Papers include correspondence, memos, reports, and other material which extensively document his scholarly endeavors as well as his professional activities. Research notes and materials used in Gottschalk's research on the life of Lafayette constitute approximately half of the material. Also included are reprints of Gottschalk's articles, tapes and handwritten copies of his lectures, and the dissertation abstracts and term papers of his students.
Gerim M. Panarity was an Albanian-American activist, journalist, and longtime editor of Dielli, the first Albanian-American newspaper in the United States. This collection contains correspondence, clippings, diaries, legal documents, manuscripts, photographs, maps and copies of Albanian and Albanian-American newspapers, including Dielli. The Gerim M. Panarity Papers document the Albanian-American community and modern Albanian history and politics.
Gitel P. Steed (1914-1977), anthropologist. Consists primarily of research data from the Columbia University Research in Contemporary India Field Project, directed by Steed from 1949 to 1951. Data were collected from three villages in western and northern India and include life histories of informants, psychological tests, typed notes, field notebooks, photographs, genealogies, transcripts of interviews, and art work by researchers and villagers. Contains research notes collected by project participants James Silverberg, G. Morris Castairs, and Grace Langley. Also includes data from fieldwork projects on the Inuit of Greenland and Chinese immigrants in New York City, lectures, and publications about the India Project by Steed and other scholars. Also contains some of Steed's India photographs that were included in Edward Steichen's 1955 exhibit, The Family of Man.
The Emil Julius Gumbel Papers consist primarily of general personal correspondence arranged alphabetically by correspondent, including in most cases a copy of Gumbel's reply. Also included in the collection are Gumbel's topical files. These files pertain for the most part to particular episodes and activities, such as Gumbel's association with the Office of Strategic Service.
Eleanor Prescott Hammond (b. April 26, 1866, d. February 21, 1933) was an English professor and Chaucer expert who taught at the University of Chicago and Wellesley College before spending the majority of her career as an independent scholar. The collection contains correspondence, research notes, handwritten transcribed manuscripts, typescripts of manuscripts, article and book drafts, newspaper clippings, prints, and an annotated book. Materials date between 1913 and 1933, with the bulk of the material dating between 1922 and 1932. The papers primarily document Hammond’s mid-to-late career research on Chaucer, John Lydgate, and Late Medieval Period English poetry, and includes Hammond’s correspondence with the directors of the University of Chicago’s Chaucer Research Project.
Winfield Scott Hancock (1824–1886) was a career military officer in the US Army and the Democratic Party’s 1880 nominee for President. The collection contains fifteen letters written by Hancock, mostly to Samuel S. Cox, the US Representative from New York.
In 1912 the construction of a new University of Chicago Library was completed. The building was dedicated in memory of the University of Chicago’s first President, William Rainey Harper, who died in 1906. The Harper Memorial Library was then renovated in 1973 and rededicated in conjunction with the renovation of Wiebolt Hall. Materials in this collection include programs, booklets, speeches, film media, and miscellaneous memorabilia associated with the 1912 and 1973 dedication ceremonies.
Samuel Harper (1823-1905), father of William Rainey Harper. The collection consists primarily of Harper’s diaries from 1864 to 1903, along with notes, clippings and receipts enclosed in the diaries. Also included in the collection is an expense book for the year 1862.
The University of Chicago Library's collection of books from the John Hay library consists of twelve books that were purchased by William E. Barton in 1926. Many of these books bear John Hay's signature and most date from Hay's time as secretary to Abraham Lincoln during the latter's presidency. Many are U.S. government publications and others are concerned with governmental and legal matters.
Harold C. Urey was a physical chemist who won the Nobel Prize for the discovery of deuterium, served as Director of War Research for Columbia University's Atomic Bomb Project, then joined the University of Chicago's Institute for Nuclear Studies. This collection consists of scientific notebooks developed by Urey and his students, most dating from the mid-1930s and documenting research in isotope separation, an area in which Urey was the leading authority.
Robert Herrick, novelist, professor. The Robert Herrick Papers contain correspondence; manuscripts of novels, plays, short stories, and literary criticism. The collection also includes essays and lectures on political, educational, and literary subjects. Herrick's correspondents include Robert Morss Lovett, Jane Addams, William Dean Howells, Harriet Monroe, William Rainey Harper, Norman Hapgood, and Bernard Berenson.
Thomas Hilliard, saxophone, clarinet, and flute teacher. The Thomas Hilliard Papers contain printed music and jazz pedagogical instruction books.
This collection contains records from the Department of History at the University of Chicago. The collections contains correspondence, memoranda, minutes, letters of recommendation, examinations, reports, proposals, student lists and student evaluations.
This collection is made up of the correspondence, business papers, and assorted miscellany of Dexter and Sheldon Hitchcock, and their families between 1834 and 1878. Of interest to the economic historian will be the shipping receipts and bills of lading in the business papers of Dexter Hitchcock, 1834-1835, and the various personal account books for the post Civil War period in Folder 6. There are also two interesting letters dealing with western lands in the correspondence of Sheldon Hitchcock, and a group of letters written by soldiers in the Union Army to family and friends in Aurora, Illinois.
The Hyde Park-Kenwood and Woodlawn Records contain articles, journals, small publications, brochures, correspondence, neighborhood directories, flyers, newsletters, advertisements, neighborhood guides, pamphlets, proposals, reports, and newspapers concerning the history of Hyde Park and its surrounding neighborhoods, as well as the urban renewal movement.
The Division of the Humanities Research Grants Records contain correspondence, reports and summaries relating to grants given for specific research projects undertaken by the faculty of the Humanities Division of the University. Most of the grants were awarded by the General Education Board, the Rockefeller Foundation and the American Council of Learned Societies.
Leigh Hunt (1784-1859) English critic, essayist, poet, and writer. George Lillie Craik (1798-1866), Scottish writer and literary critic; Jannette Craik (1791), George’s spouse; and Mary Craik (1826-1887), English novelist and poet. This collection contains correspondence between members of the Craik family and Leigh Hunt, probably written from 1849 to 1889.
Robert Maynard Hutchins (1899-1977) was a leader in education reform, dean of the Yale Law School, president and chancellor of the University of Chicago (1929-1951), and an executive at the Commission on Freedom of the Press, the Committee to Frame a World Constitution, Encyclopædia Britannica, the Ford Foundation, the Fund for the Republic, and the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. The collection includes material pertaining to Hutchins' research, writing, and speaking; material relevant to his professional activities; correspondence; subject files; personal ephemera; honors and awards; annotated books; and photographs and audio recordings. Materials date between 1884 and 2000, with the bulk of the material dating between 1921 and 1977.
This collection contains the records of the Congress for Cultural Freedom and the International Association for Cultural Freedom. It comprises correspondence, reports, manuscripts, photographs, publications, recordings and clippings. It also includes the records of the Congress for Cultural Freedom affiliated Latin American Institute of International Relations and the Congress for Cultural Freedom Affiliated funded magazine Preuves. The collection dates from 1941-1978, with the bulk of the material dating from 1950-1972.
The ICAES Records consist of the preparation materials and scholastic work for the conference held in Chicago in 1973. The correspondence consists of letters between Sol Tax and his secretaries to the conference participants and between the editors and writers of the papers that were presented and published. The materials also included the mock up materials and the final packet for the conference participants, as well as press releases and final drafts of the presentation papers. Conference participants included well known intellectuals such as Margaret Mead, Prince Peter of Greece and Denmark, L. Lomnitz, James Fernandez, Marshall Sahlins, McKim Marriott, June Nash, and Alan Lomax.
James Patrick Mahon, also known as "The O'Gorman Mahon" was an Irish politician and adventurer.
The collection contains correspondence, materials from court cases, documents pertaining to business ventures, a letter book, a diary, a passport, election posters, and two scrapbooks of newspaper clippings. Papers document Mahon's various political, military and business activities. Correspondents include Ann Choquet, John Adams-Acton, Arthur Richard Wellesley, William O'Shea, and Charles Parnell.
The Sidney W. Mandel Collection of English Legal Documents contains miscellaneous English legal documents collected by the Chicago attorney during his travels in England. Interested in the similarities between modern day American legal terminology and that of the English courts, Mandel assembled a variety of documents including mortgages, leases, wills, and marriage settlements. The collection spans the sixteenth through twentieth centuries, but the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries are best represented, with a majority of the documents originating in London and in the counties surrounding and to the south of the capital. Most of the manuscripts are inscribed on parchment, with many bearing well-preserved seals.
The Mathematical Club was established January 5, 1893 in order to provide a forum for graduate students in mathematics. Papers were presented and discussed by the faculty of the Mathematics and Astronomy Departments, and, occasionally by graduate students and visiting scholars.
The Club Records contain programs of meetings (1893-1894), and notes on lectures delivered (1896-1903). The collection also includes programs from the Junior Mathematical Club (1905-1941).
Fred Matthews, professor of history, author. The Fred Matthews Papers consist of letters solicited by Fred Matthews while researching his study of Robert E. Park, Quest for an American Sociology: Robert E. Park and the Chicago School. Correspondents include Saul Alinsky, Nels Anderson, Harold D. Lasswell, Winifred Raushenbush, Margaret Park Redfield, and Leslie A. White.
Robert L. McCaul, Jr. was Professor of Education at the University of Chicago, and a scholar of John Dewey and of the history of public education in Illinois. The collection contains correspondence, research materials, material regarding the 1969 student sit-in at the University of Chicago, and drafts of several books. Material dates from 1900 to 1994, with the bulk dating between 1963 and 1991.
The University of Chicago's Department of Meteorology was established in 1942, and conducted ground-breaking research through World War II. This collection consists of reports, correspondence, financial material, and other administrative records, mainly related to the department's research and development contracts with the U.S. Army and Navy, with a concentration of material dating from the mid- to late-1940s.
Marvin Mirsky (1923-1914) scholar of literature and longtime faculty member at the University of Chicago. The papers include course materials, notes, articles, and correspondence.
W. W. Morgan (1906-1994), astronomer. The papers document Morgan's career as a scientist and administrator at the Yerkes Observatory as well as his family history and personal interests. Contains correspondence, manuscripts, diaries, photographs and research materials
Thomas J. Morgan (1847-1912), socialist activist and journalist. Born in England in 1847 and migrated to U.S. in 1869. Active in the machinists labor movement and the Socialist Labor Party. Editor and publisher of The Provoker. Contains correspondence concerning The Provoker, party correspondence, drafts of committee resolutions and statements with which Morgan was associated. Also includes drafts of speeches and articles by Morgan, miscellaneous clippings, journals and publications reflecting Morgan's activities in the Socialist Labor Party and politics in general, as well as Morgan's diverse public welfare interests.
Chronicle of political events in Venice to 1618, with a history of Venetian nobility. Probably an eighteenth-century copy of an earlier work. Text in Italian. Codex Ms 1003.
Theological treatise concerning man's creation and nature. Seven leaves at the end are inverted and in a different hand: commentary on the Ten Commandments. Text in English. Codex Ms 111.
Chronicle of Biblical history organized in accordance with the order of the Biblical books, omitting books with no obvious significance for the reconstruction of the history. This work has been rebound and leather fragments retained. See Special Collections circulation desk for additional information.
Text in Latin. Codex Ms 121.
Teresa Bandettini (1763-1837), often known by her Arcadian name, Amarilli Etrusca, was a dancer and composer of verse. Codex 1445, consists of 96 fascicles written in the early 19th century and compiled by an unknown witness to Teresa Bandettini’s productions.
Notes for sermons by Samuel Harrison, the rector of Oving, Buckinghamshire, from 1672-1682. Text in English. Codex Ms 149.
A compilation of miscellaneous sermons and religious treatises, written in a single hand on Italian paper. Includes: Commendatio de vita solitaria by St. Pietro Damiani; 51 homilies of St. Augustine; several short sermons by St. Ephraim of Syria; anonymous essays on the virtues and seven mortal sins; a life of St. Hieronymus by St. Cyril; a treatise entitled Meditatione; and a fragment of De institutione novitiorum by Hugo of St. Victor. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 155.
The principal work is Gerard of Siena's commentary on book 1 of Peter Lombard's Sentences. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 22.
Excerpts from Saint Jerome's commentary on Isaiah, probably written at Erfurt, in the Carthusian convent. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 25.
Philosophical treatise on the soul. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 2.
Epic poem on war between Caesar and Pompey. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 33.
Commentary on Books IV and V of the Decretals of Pope Gregory IX. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 34.
Philosophical texts on morality. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 42.
Theological treatise. Text in Greek. Codex Ms 54.
Moral teaching. Text in Italian. Codex Ms 59.
 The author's draft of an unfinished and unpublished novel. Codex Ms 626.
An abridgement of Burchardus' description of the Holy Land, by an unknown author. Possibly a fragment of a larger manuscript held by the University of Ghent. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 707.
Copies of 94 pieces of correspondence and other documents concerning the travels of Cahusac to the United States, Guadalupe, St. Thomas, and Haiti. Text in French. Codex Ms 798.
Antiphonarium for Matins, a collection of Gregorian chants, beginning with invitatory tones followed by antiphons for commons of saints, 2 hymns, and texts for Psalms and Canticle for Sunday Lauds. On parchment, with some illuminated letters. Probably 16th or 17th century, written in Spain. Text in Latin. Codex Ms 967.
Marshall Sahlins anthropologist, professor. The Marshall Sahlins Papers consist of research notes and data about the Hawaiian Makahiki festival and James Cook's voyage to Hawaii (1778-1779).
The University of Chicago’s Department of Music was founded in 1931. Since its establishment, it has offered graduate degrees in composition, historical musicology, ethnomusicology, analysis, and theory, as well as an undergraduate Bachelor of Arts degree in music. The Department also hosts a Performance Program that involves hundreds of musicians and numerous ensembles. The collection documents the department’s establishment and history, administrative processes, publications, publicity, and music performances organized by or at the University. The events represented in the records date back to the earliest years of the University before the Department’s establishment.
This collection consists of press releases produced by the American Indian Press Association. The collection forms part of the archives of Native American Educational Services,
The Community Board Training Project was an educational program of Native American Educational Services College. CBTP addressed the occupational training needs of Native Americans in the Chicago area, as well as cooperative efforts among various Native American organizations in the area. This collection forms part of the archives of Native American Educational Services, and consists of 9.25 linear feet of materials related to CBTP's administration, programming, and work with other organizations. This collection also contains some materials regarding the relationship between the CBTP and several other organizations in the Chicago area.
David Beck served as a professor at NAES College in Chicago. This collection contains correspondence, syllabus, and administrative papers related to Beck's work at NAES. The collection forms part of the archives of Native American Educational Services.
This collection contains manuscripts and proofs of publications of the NAES College Press. The collection forms part of the archives of Native American Educational Services, and is particularly strong in materials related to Sol Tax and Robert Thomas.
Robert Rietz was a pioneer in the so-called “Action Anthropology” movement, creator and promoter of educational projects for Native American college students, and Director of the American Indian Center in Chicago. The bulk of Rietz’s personal papers cover the period from 1950 to 1954, when he worked as community analyst and relocation officer for the Bureau of Indian Affairs at the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, North Dakota. Rietz’s papers are of particular interest for researchers of mid-twentieth century Native American populations, and offer a window into the complex dynamics played out between scholarly research, Native American populations, and Federal Indian Affairs policies. This collection also provides valuable insights into Native American Indian population in urban centers and relocation practices in the early 1950s, as well as materials pertaining to a number of educational projects Rietz was involved in from the mid-1950s to the early 1960s. Also included are field notes, official bulletins, and newsletters from different Indian Reservations.
Sol Tax (1907-1996) was a prominent cultural anthropologist at the University of Chicago who was instrumental to the foundation of the Native American Educational Services (NAES) as an offshoot of his work with Native Americans in Chicago and throughout the Americas. This collection consists of 24 linear feet of materials related to Tax's research on American Indians, especially those in and around Chicago, as well as his work with various social issues including race and poverty. The bulk of this collection is made up of publications and papers collected for research, as well as newsletters and newspapers written by or about American Indians. The rest of the collection contains correspondence and administrative materials from organizations with which Dr. Tax was involved.
The Northwest Baptist Education Society was incorporated in 1876 with the purpose of providing financial aid to deserving students studying for the ministry while attending a Baptist college or seminary in the West. The administration of the Society was taken over by the University of Chicago Divinity School in 1912. The records contain reports, minutes and account books.
Norman Hilberry earned a doctorate in Physics from University of Chicago in 1941, and went on to serve in a number of administrative positions in research and development in the physical sciences. As a personal aide to Arthur Holly Compton, Hilberry participated in the 1942 Chicago Pile Experiment. This collection consists of a photograph album documenting Hilberry's 1961 visit to Japan, as a consultant to the Japanese Atomic Energy Commission.
Aaron Nickerson was a settler who moved to Texas from the northern states shortly after the Texas Revolution and the creation of the Republic of Texas (1836-1845). The collection includes letters he sent to Lizzie Swartwout, a Michigan woman from 1839 to1860.
Hoke Norris, reporter, novelist, director of Public Affairs for the University of Chicago. The Hoke Norris Papers primarily consist of newspaper clippings of articles written by Norris. There are also six letters, including one from Bülent Ecevit, the prime minister of Turkey in 1974, 1977, 1978-1979, and 1999 to the present.
Ida Noyes, artist, philanthropist. The Ida Noyes Papers consist of 611 photographs, a postcard, and four bound volumes of letters from Ida Noyes to her husband, La Verne Noyes.
This collection consists of three bound volumes of press releases, speeches, publications, and news clippings concerning the commemoration in 1962-1963 of the 20th anniversary of the first self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction and related events in 1942.
This collection contains records of the University of Chicago Office of the President, covering the administration of George W. Beadle, who served as President from 1961-1968. Included are administrative records such as correspondence, reports, publications, budgets and personnel material.
This collection contains records of the University of Chicago Office of the President, covering the administration of Lawrence A. Kimpton, who served as Chancellor of the University of Chicago from 1951-1960. While he kept the title of "Chancellor" held by his predecessor, Robert Maynard Hutchins, Kimpton’s duties were consistent with those held throughout the institution’s history by the University President. Included here are administrative records such as correspondence, reports, publications, budgets and personnel material.
A former advertising executive, William Benton served as a part-time Vice-President from 1937-1945 and was primarily responsible for the university's public affairs and broadcasting activities. This collection contains the records and correspondence of the University of Chicago's Office of the Vice-President, comprising the administration of William Benton. Included are correspondence, reports, publications, and other administrative records related to university events and issues within his mandate; as well as material related to Benton's broadcasting, public relations, and media relations work on behalf of the university. The collection contains a significant number of items related to the production of the University of Chicago's well-known Round Table radio program, broadcast nationwide from 1933-1955.
Ron Offen (1930-2010), editor, poet, and librarian. The Ron Offen Papers contain drafts, manuscripts, proofs, book reviews, publications, biographical material, correspondence, photographs, newspaper articles, videocassettes, legal documents, playbills, college course evaluations, and interviews. The papers document Offen's literary and editorial career, primarily his role as editor of the journal Free Lunch: A Poetry Miscellany.
Off-Off Campus is a student improvisation theater group founded at the University of Chicago in 1986. The Records include administrative files, advertising and written short scenes.
Elder Olson, poet, literary critic, teacher. The Elder Olson Papers consist of undated typescript poems, reprints of poems and articles (1939-1974), galleys and proofs of Olson's Penny Arcade, manuscripts, and correspondence.
The Origin of Man Symposium was held April 2-4, 1965, at the Center for Continuing Education at the University of Chicago. It was convened by Sol Tax, Professor of Anthropology at the University of Chicago, and sponsored by the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research.
Contains correspondence, lists of participants, reports, financial records, order forms, press releases, photographs, and transcripts and tapes of the symposium.
Melchior Palyi, economist and professor. The papers contain correspondence, manuscripts, book reviews, articles, lectures, off-prints, clippings, biographical material, radio broadcasts, tape recordings, a film, books, copies of the newsletter Bulletin, and pamphlets. Papers document Palyi's work as a conservative economist.
This collection consists of paper dolls and accompanying paper clothing and accessories. The dolls were found in an 1839 volume of the New York Mirror, a weekly gazette of literature and the fine arts. Made by hand from scraps of magazines and wallpaper, the dolls are each unique, well-preserved examples of a typically fragile and ephemeral folk art.
Eugene Parker was an astrophysicist and University of Chicago professor best known for predicting the existence of solar wind. In addition to heliophysics, Parker also studied cosmic rays and magnetic fields. The collection includes Parker’s email correspondence; scientific and personal photographs; reprints of Parker’s scientific publications from 1952 to 2016; lecture notes and overhead projector slides from Parker’s courses; materials related to astrophysicist Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar; scientific publications written by others; and Parker’s awards and diplomas. Materials date between 1948 and 2018, with the bulk of material dating between 1952 and 2011.
Francis Wayland Parker (1837-1902), Educator. The collection consists primarily of scrapbooks containing clippings of newspaper and magazine articles by and about Parker, and notices containing information on institutions, organizations, educational movements, and teaching methods with which he was associated. Also contains some manuscripts and correspondence.
Print publications, calendars, and coasters produced by the Container Corporation of America between 1936 and 1983.
Mark Perlberg (b. 1929, d. June 23rd, 2008) was a poet, journalist, editor, and educator. In 1968, he co-founded the Poetry Center of Chicago. The collection consists of event announcements and correspondence related to the Poetry Center, materials used in Perlberg’s poetry workshop at the Newberry Library, and drafts of Perlberg’s various essays and poems. In addition, there are posters from Poetry Center events, including two that are autographed (one by Stanley Kunitz and another by Galway Kinnell). Materials date from 1953 to 2010.
The Pi Lambda Theta, Lambda Chapter Records comprise minutes of the Chapter’s first two years of meetings (1921-1923) and various procedural guidelines, membership lists, meeting materials, newsletters, fiscal reports, and correspondence from 1987 through 1989.
Contains correspondence, manuscripts, student notes, lectures, field notes, teaching materials, letters of recommendation, maps, biographical material, postcards, offprints, book reviews, photographs, slides, and a motion picture film. Includes notes taken while Platt was a graduate student in the Department of Geography at the University of Chicago, notes and research papers from the Department's field courses in the upper Great Lakes region, correspondence relating to professional organizations such as the Association of American Geographers and the Library of Congress where Platt was Chief of the Division of Maps. Also includes editorial correspondence of the Annals of the Association of American Geographers (1961-1963).
Poetry: A Magazine of Verse was founded in Chicago, Illinois in 1912 by Harriet Monroe. The collection contains the administrative records of Poetry: A Magazine of Verse from its founding in 1912 to 1961, and documents not only the history of the magazine, but also the development of English-language verse in the first half of the twentieth century. The administrative files include correspondence, poetry, articles and reviews sent to and compiled by each editor of the magazine. Also included are a smaller number of business and editorial files, containing financial and fund raising records, literary prizes, author biographies, clippings and other items documenting the operation of the magazine.
Michael Polanyi, chemist and philosopher, was born, Budapest, Hungary, 1891. He received his M.D. (1913) and Ph.D (1917) from the University of Budapest. He worked at Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Fibre Chemistry, Berlin, 1920 to 1923, and the Institute of Physical and Electro-Chemistry, Berlin, 1923 to 1933. He was chair of physical chemistry, 1933 to 1948, and professor of social studies, 1948-58, at the University of Manchester. Polanyi was senior research fellow, Merton College, Oxford, from 1958 to 1976. Died, 1976. The papers of Michael Polanyi contains personal and professional correspondence; research notes; manuscripts of lectures, published and unpublished works, speeches, German scientific writings, patents, and poetry; diaries and notebooks; offprints; and memorabilia, including photographs, clippings, a sound recording of an interview with Polanyi, Christmas cards, and invitations. Also includes photocopies of title pages of the 1,500 books from Polanyi's library. Correspondents include Joseph Oldham, Marjorie Grene, Harry Prosch, Arthur Koestler, Karl Mannheim, Edward Shils, and Eugene Wigner. Manuscripts and correspondence reveal the range of Polanyi's philosophical thought and interests in intellectual liberty and the issue of planning in science. Correspondence also illustrates Polanyi's participation in the organization of the Congress for Cultural Freedom and the Committee on Science and Freedom.
This collection contains records, correspondence, submissions, marketing materials, proofs, layouts, and published volumes of the literary magazine, Primavera, dating from 1975 to 2006. Founded in 1975, Primavera was originally associated with the University of Chicago's Feminist Organization. The magazine eventually disassociated from the organization and then from the University, but continued to publish "fiction and poetry that reflect the experiences of women," operating under the auspices of Moveable Type, Inc. and funded through subscriptions and grants.
Edward Kirby Putnam (1868-1939). Contains notes, syllabi, schedules, outlines, and drafts of terms papers for classes Putnam took as a graduate student in English and sociology at the University of Chicago. Includes classes taught by William McClintock, Oscar Triggs, Frederic I. Carpenter, Edwin Lewis, and Charles Henderson.
Eugene I. Rabinowitch, biophysicist and co-founder and editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. The papers contain material on the Pugwash Conferences, and relating to Rabinowitch's professional and academic career, including lecture notes, research reports and correspondence. The bulk of the papers cover the years 1954-1964, with clippings and articles on science, international relations and domestic politics dating from 1945.
This collection contains ephemera pertaining to American reactionary politics from 1939 to 1950. Included are newspaper clippings, flyers, pamphlets, postcards, newsletters, notes, and other similar pieces of ephemera covering topics such as anti-Semitism, communism, isolationism, nationalism, racism, fascism, and other issues related to ultraconservative social, religious, and economic movements.
Margaret Gilpin Reid (1896-1991) was a Professor of Home Economics and Economics at the University of Chicago between 1951 and 1961. Reid was one of the first economists to theorize the economic contributions of non-market activities such as housework. Her work during the 1930s, which argued the household was a site of production as well as consumption, has been cited as an important forerunner to the "New Home Economics" of the 1960s. This collection contains Reid's research data and drafts of her books and papers. It also contains cards, clippings, professional and personal correspondence, and writings by other scholars. Material spans 1904-1990, concentrated in the 1930s through the early 1980s.
The Renaissance Seminar Records consist of correspondence between Seminar leaders Edward Lowinsky and Eric Cochrane, Seminar participants and guest lecturers (1964-1976). The collection also includes minutes, membership lists, and meeting notices (1964-1976).
Rachel Marshall Goetz was a writer, researcher, and activist who spent much of her career focused on national and local Hyde Park politics. These papers include much of Goetz’s early writing advocating the use of new media in state and local governments. She worked as a speechwriter on Illinois governor Adlai Stevenson’s 1956 presidential campaign, and many of her drafts, memos, position papers, and letters are included here. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, Goetz was an important figure in Hyde Park-Kenwood’s urban renewal, and her papers hold many drafts, clippings, and notes relating to that project. Late in her life, Goetz and her sister, Barbara Frye, dedicated themselves to making elaborately decorated ornamental eggs. Many photographs, articles, and letters about her egg artwork are included here. The collection also holds clippings, correspondence, and photographs relating to Goetz’s father, Leon Carroll Marshall.
The Bob Richards Productions Collection contains a photograph of Ray Brown and Roy Eldridge.
Records, photographs and memorabilia from the University of Chicago Lower Rickert House, part of the Woodward Court residential hall that was demolished in 2001.
David Riesman (1909-2002) was an American sociologist, attorney, writer, and educator. He is best known as the author of The Lonely Crowd: A Study of the Changing American Character. The collection consists primarily of reprints of articles written or co-authored by David Riesman from 1947 to 1982. The bulk of the material dates from 1950 to 1956.
Wyndham Robertson, the 20th governor of Virginia actively corresponded with generals during the civil war. Additionally, he traced his family heritage to Pocahontas and authored historical texts. This collection contains family letters business papers, letters to civil war officials, family records and historical research.
Earl Edgar Rosenthal (b. August 26, 1921, d. September 13, 2007) was an art history professor at the University of Chicago for over forty years, scholar of Spanish renaissance art and architecture, and War World II veteran. The collection contains college yearbooks, notebooks documenting his early research trips to Europe and Mexico, notebooks on his dissertation about Spanish architecture, reading notes, timelines of Spanish and French art and architecture, bibliographies, and course lectures. Materials date between 1942 and 1998, with the bulk of the materials being notes taken and revised from about 1990 to 1998. The papers primarily document Rosenthal's early work as an observant art historian in Spain, Italy, and Mexico, his continuously revised notes on the scholarship of his field, and his course lectures on the diffusion of the arts throughout renaissance Europe.
This collection contains a variety of artifacts and print ephemera. Included are political items from the 20th century, University of Chicago and Hyde Park memorabilia, a small collection of recipes and information on home remedies, and patriotic memorabilia. The cigar box in which this material was found is also included.
Beardsley Ruml (1894-1960), probably best know for his "Pay - As - You - Go" income tax plan, also achieved distinction as an educator, trust administrator, business executive, and advisor to commerce, industry, education, and government, particularly in the field of financial and fiscal policy. In addition, he was a prolific writer and much in demand as a speaker, both on general subjects of social and economic interest and on his fields of specialization.
Jean-Baptiste Say (1767 –1832) French economist. Best known for Say’s Law, he was a strong voice in the liberal tradition, arguing in favor of competition, free trade, and deregulation. The collection contains a series of correspondence between Say and a number of influential French writers of the time. The letters are mostly undated, though the dates available show the letters date from 1794 to 1821.
Contains correspondence and other documents from or related to prominent scientists. Includes the Marie Curie Correspondence with Charlotte Kellogg (ca. 1921-1929) and Curie Memorabilia, the Charles Darwin and Darwin Family Correspondence, the Albert Einstein-Walther Mayer Correspondence (1930-1933) and Einstein Photographs, the Isaac Newton Collection (1642-1727), and Miscellaneous Scientific Manuscripts (1744, 1777, 1820). The Joseph Halle Schaffner Papers (1943-1961) are also included and contain material relating to Schaffner's activities as a collector and how the collections were used by scholars and in exhibits.
Marjorie Preston Schulz, student. The Marjorie Preston Schulz Papers include materials relating to Schulz's years at Hyde Park High School and the University of Chicago.
Includes photographs of John Dewey, George Herbert Mead, James Hayden Tufts, Jane Addams, Henry Castle Mead, Elinor Castle Nef, John Nef, Mabel Wing Castle, William Butler Yeats and others.
The records of the Emil Schwarzhaupt Foundation comprise 26 linear feet of material, including minutes, correspondence, and financial records of the Foundation, as well as applications, recommendations, correspondence, reports, newsletters, news clippings, and pamphlets of 65 organizations that applied to the Foundation for support.
The Schwarzhaupt records are important documents for studying an important shift in the understanding of democratic participation in the mid-twentieth century. In the Foundation's certificate of incorporation in 1936 Emil Schwarzhaupt wrote of:
the up building and betterment of American citizenship and increasing among all American citizens, and especially among the foreign born, the knowledge of the history of the United States Government and the meaning of the obligations and privileges of citizenship in the United States of America.
This collection contains 6 Marvel comic books that tell the story of Herman Melville's Moby Dick. The Moby Dick series was a limited series published by Marvel in 2008. It was illustrated by Roy Thomas, Pascal Alixe, Victor Olazaba, and Andrew Crossley. The comic books were collected by Hank Scotch, a graduate student in the English Department at the University of Chicago.
The Reverend Hugh MacDonald Scott (1848-1909) was professor of Church History at the Chicago Theological Seminary. The collection contains lecture notes written by Scott from 1894 to1909.
The Seven Woods Press was founded by George Koppelman in 1972. The Seven Woods Press Records document aspects of the publisher from beginning to end of operation, including financial, production and distribution records, advertising and promotional material, correspondence, manuscripts, reviews, magazines, newspapers, and photographs. It also includes material from other poetry and publication businesses.
Benjamin Shackelford, student. The Benjamin Shackelford papers consist of lecture notes taken while Shackelford was a graduate student in Physics at the University of Chicago (1915-1917). The collection includes notes from classes given by Frederick Lindemann, Albert Abraham Michelson, Robert Andrews Millikan, Arthur Lunn, and Gilbert Bliss.
Shailer Mathews (1863-1941) Professor, 1894-1933, Dean of the Divinity School, 1908-1933. Contains correspondence, minutes, articles, reports, and teaching materials. Subjects relate to the history of the University of Chicago and the Divinity School, the development of the religious and social ideas known as Modernism, and the Chautauqua Institute.
The collection consists of approximately 4,300 printed songs, folksongs, ballads, and piano music from the late 18th to the mid-20th century. The materials are predominately English and American, but the collection includes songs of other countries, some of which are in French or German. Includes the Starshack Collection of American Sheet Music and music of the Midway Minstrel, a male singing group named after the Midway in Hyde Park, Chicago.
David Lee Shillinglaw (b. June 6, 1889, d. February 13, 1976) was a World War I-veteran, American Legionnaire, investment banker, and a Chicago civic leader. The collection contains correspondence, diaries, appointment books, notes, manuscripts, typescripts, blueprints, reports, clippings, World War I-era ephemera and publications, photographs, audiotape reels, and scrapbooks. Materials date between 1892 and 1971, with the bulk of the material dating between 1917 and 1960. The papers primarily document Shillinglaw's service in the YMCA American Expeditionary Forces and the army during WWI, his public speaking engagements, his service in the American Legion, and his personal involvement in numerous political organizations and boards.
Harrington Shortall (1895-1984) was a music composer and educator. Shortall studied under Nadia Boulanger, and went on to compose a diverse body of musical work. As an educator, Shortall taught at the Chicago Theological Seminary, and Rosary College. Shortall's papers contain a collection of material related to Nadia Boulanger, including correspondence; also included are teaching materials, compositions, journals and publicity material.
James Silverberg, Professor of Anthropology department at the University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee. As a graduate student he accompanied Gitel P. Steed on the Columbia University Research in Contemporary India Field Project. The bulk of the papers are related to the India Field Project. Additionally, there are files regarding the creation and organization of the Steed archive. There is also a small collection of Silverberg's writings and correspondence.
Maud Slye (1869-1954), University of Chicago pathologist and cancer specialist. The Maud Slye papers consist of research records, published and unpublished manuscripts, and correspondence.
Dr. Alexander Spitzer (b. October 22, 1868, d. January 16, 1943) was a scientist and physician who specialized in several fields, including anatomy, neurology, and pathology, and developed a phylogenetic theory of the abnormal development of human hearts. In the final years of his scientific career, he worked on a book that presents his theory in detail and responds to its critics. Due to his dismissal by the Nazi regime from his position at the University of Vienna and his deportation to a concentration camp, Spitzer's book remained unpublished. The collection includes the entire manuscript of the book, the manuscript of another book that grew out of the second part of the former, corrections for certain sections, and correspondence documenting the subsequent possessors of Spitzer's manuscripts.
Francis P. Squibb, jazz musician, curator, and writer. The Francis P. Squibb Papers contain advertisements, articles, correspondence, interviews, photographs, songbooks, fake books, method books, programs, publications, liner notes, record catalogs and discographies, essays, and manuscripts. There is handwritten, printed, and photocopied music as well as music transcriptions.
The Work Incentive Program (WIN) was established by the U.S. Department of Labor in 1967-1968 to increase employability and employment among those receiving welfare. The University of Chicago's School of Social Service Administration (SSA) was involved with the administration of Illinois' WIN program. This collection contains clippings, conference proceedings, correspondence, data analysis, papers, and reports. It includes material generated at panel meetings with the University of Michigan's School of Social Work and Case Western University's School of Applied Social Science. Material spans 1969-1973.
Amos Alonzo Stagg was first Athletic Director and football
coach for the University of Chicago from 1892-1933 and football coach for the College of the Pacific from 1933-1946. He was a national figure, leader and innovator in the development of intercollegiate sports, football, the Olympics and amateur athletics. The Amos Alonzo Stagg Papers consists of correspondence, personal papers, scrapbooks, notebooks, reports, newspaper clippings, photo albums, books and professional and scholastic ephemera that span Stagg The collection contains correspondence between the American Photographer, Alfred Stieglitz (1864-1946) and the publisher, Aron M. Mathieu, from 1943-1945.
The Student and Alumni Papers and Ephemera Collection consists of correspondence, class notes, football ticket books, dance cards, freshman orientation programs, diplomas, convocations programs, invitations, brochures from various convocation activities, and other materials related to student life at the University of Chicago. The collection also includes alumni reminiscences and class reunion materials.
Zena Bailey Sutherland (1915-2002) (AB 1937, AM 1958 University of Chicago) was associated with the University of Chicago Graduate Library School throughout her career as faculty and as editor and reviewer for the Bulletin of the Center for Children's Books from 1958 to 1985. Over the course of her career, she reviewed more than 30,000 children's books, for the Bulletin and as children's book editor for the Saturday Review and the Chicago Tribune. She authored six editions of the classic text Children and Books The Sutherland Papers consist of materials from work in the Graduate Library School, papers regarding her service on the Newbery, Caldecott, and other children's literature award committees, speeches and writings, biographical materials, and correspondence related to her professional work at the University and as editor and author for children's literature.
Manley Hawn Thompson was Professor of Philosophy at the University of Chicago from 1949 to 1987. The collection mostly contains correspondence and drafts of his and others' scholarly writings, dating from 1939 to 1998. The bulk of the material is from the 1980s.
Marquis Townshend is a hereditary title in Great Britain held by the Townshend family of Raynham Hall in Norfolk. This collection contains correspondence from Field Marshal George Townshend (1724–1807), 1st Marquis Townshend, and his daughter, Charlotte (1776–1856), Lady Townshend.
This collection contains publications, correspondence, and ephemera documenting the activities of the University of Chicago Board of Trustees.
James Hayden Tufts (1862-1942) was on the faculty of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Chicago from 1892-1930. He was Dean of the Senior Colleges (1898-1904), Dean of Faculties and Vice-President of the University (1924-26), Acting President of the University (1925-26), and editor of the International Journal of Ethics (1914-1930). The Tufts Papers include professional correspondence (1909-1942); philosophy outlines, notes and lectures; drafts of Tufts' memoirs; papers concerning the City Club of Chicago Committee on Housing Conditions (1908-13); and documents related to the Illinois Committee on Social Legislation (1912-17).
Ralph W. Tyler (1902-1994) Professor of Education and university administrator. Contains correspondence, minutes, sample dissertations, examinations, manuscripts of speeches and articles, published works, biographical material, and letters of recommendation. Papers document Tyler's involvement with the United States Department of Agriculture Extension Service workshops, Doane College, the American Council on Education, and the University of Chicago Department of Education and Division of Social Sciences, as well as other organizations.
This collection includes materials relating to the construction of the John Crerar Library at the University of Chicago and library activities from 1984 onwards. The majority of the material in the collection relates to the construction of the new library building, built to facilitate the transferal of the collection from the Illinois Institute of Technology to the University of Chicago campus in 1981. In addition, the collection contains materials relating to the tracking and processing of missing books during the early 1980s.
Contains scrapbooks compiled by various individuals and university entities. The scrapbooks contain news clippings, university mailings, and other ephemera from 1885 to 1990. The bulk of the material dates from 1891 to 1930.
This collection contains newspaper clippings, program flyers, religious service, prayer schedule, and religious program pamphlets, and informational booklets pertaining to various religious organizations at the University of Chicago. The religious organizations represented in this collection are the Board of Social Service and Religion, Calvert Club, Canterbury Club, Christian Union, Episcopal Church Council, Hillel Foundation, Interchurch Council, Lutheran Council, Pastors’ Institute, and Porter Foundation.
A committee was appointed in May 1966 to study the university's policy of submitting rank upon the request of the student to his local draft board. Growing dissatisfaction with the University's policy of compiling male class ranks had culminated with the occupation of the Administration Building for six days by groups of students. Another committee was appointed to examine in greater depth the first committee's findings.
The collection contains minutes, surveys, reports, and documentation on draft laws and the Selective Service System. Includes material related to the occupation of the Administration Building by students, May 11-16, 1966; class ranking practices at other schools; and statements by administrators, faculty and students regarding the use of student ranking by draft boards.
The University of Chicago Settlement House was established in 1894 in the packing-house district of Chicago to provide English instruction, citizenship and legal assistance, medical care, and other services, to the largely European immigrant population of the Back of the Yards community. Materials in this collection primarily document the settlement’s programs and activities from the 1930s to the early 1950s.
One of the five original divisions of the University, the Extension was created "to bring as far as possible its [the University's] many advantages for culture and instruction to people who are prevented by circumstances from going to the University itself." The Records contains correspondence, reports, minutes, student examination grades, syllabi, course descriptions, and scrapbooks of promotional and informational material. Includes minutes of the Board of the University Extension (1901-1911). Also includes administrative and financial files from the Extension's constituent units, including: the Home Study Department (1892-1961), particularly the Navy Correspondence Courses Research Project (1949-1962); the Lecture-Study Department (1892-ca. 1902); and the University College/Downtown Center (1892-1979), especially the Self-Study Project (1933-1962) and the Union Research and Education Projects/Union Leadership Program (1949-1965).
Uncle Tom's Cabin: or, Life Among the Lowly was an anti-slavery novel that profoundly affected American attitudes towards African Americans and slavery in the United States. The collection contains 23 documents, most of which are of British origin and describe or announce theatrical presentations of the tale.
Thorstein Veblen, economist, writer, teacher. The Thorstein Veblen Papers consist primarily of personal correspondence. The collection also includes an off-print of the article, "Some Neglected Points in the Theory of Socialism," and notes titled "Spencer's Principles of Sociology (manuscript and typescript).
The Verse Records were processed and preserved as part of the "Uncovering New Chicago Archives Project," funded with support from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.
This collection contains the papers of Vi Fogle Uretz (1916-2007), a University of Chicago alumna, artist and community activist. The collection includes material related to the organization of the 57th Street Art Fair and the threatened closure of the university's International House. Also included are samples of Uretz's artwork, such as sketches and photographs of urban renewal in Hyde Park.
The Charles R. Walgreen Foundation for the Study of American Institutions was established in June 1937 to foster greater appreciation of American life and values among University of Chicago students. Funding awarded to the University of Chicago by the foundation was meant to support scholarships, teaching, research, and public lectures.
Contains correspondence, lecture notices, notes on the history of the Foundation, biographical information on Charles Walgreen, and research reports by students who held Walgreen scholarships. Also contains typescripts and transcripts of lectures given under the auspices of the Foundation. Includes material that relates to the Walgreen Scholarship Fund, Walgreen Scholars, grants awarded to the Committee on Human Development, and suggested speakers and series. Correspondents include Dean Acheson, Vannevar Bush, Edward S. Corwin, Herbert Hoover, Walter Lippman, Leverett Saltonstall, Adlai Stevenson, Allen Tate, Henry A. Wallace, and others.
This collection contains correspondence, memoranda, reports, financial records, curricula, evaluations, and correspondence related to the wartime activities of the University of Chicago. Materials in this collection primarily document the Army Specialized Training Program (ASTP) and the Civil Aeronautics Administration's War Training Service Program (WTS). Other minor wartime programs contained within this collection include Army Sponsored Meteorological Training, Civil Affairs Training School, Institute for Military Studies, and Production Training for War Industries. Also contained with this collection are documents pertaining to the University's military programs during the interwar years and the University's activities during World War II.
The World Citizens Association was an outgrowth of attempts to found an American division of the World Foundation. Founded in 1939 under the patronage of Anita McCormick Blaine, the Chicago Group was disbanded in 1943 for lack of funding. Carleton Washburne chaired the group. The Chicago Group prepared surveys or study kits dealing with international cooperation. Contains correspondence, by-laws, minutes, reports, financial records, surveys, and membership information. Contains files of executive director, Edwin M. Clough. Correspondents include Anita McCormick Blaine, Quincy Wright, Edwin Cassels, Jerome Kerwin, and others. Material relates to the group's activities in promoting international cooperation and organization.
Wesley H. Greene operated a Chicago-based film distributorship, and also worked as an educator, administrator and activist focused on film and the visual arts. His distribution concerns, including International Film Bureau, College Film Center, and Trans-World Films, handled a variety of film genres and served schools, colleges and universities, churches, clubs and businesses. This collection includes records of Greene's film distribution companies; posters and other movie publicity material; records of the Chicago Film Council; programs from Greene's international film series at University of Chicago; records of the Committee to Preserve the Ferguson Fund for Sculpture and Greene's litigation against the Art Institute of Chicago; and personal correspondence and memorabilia.
William Rainey Harper (1856 -1906) was the first president of the University of Chicago, from 1891 to 1906. The collection is comprised primarily of correspondence, and papers not included in the Harper-Judson-Burton section of the Presidents Papers, and is of a somewhat more personal nature that the Presidents Papers. The collection also contains speeches and manuscripts, including Harper's first convocation address; personal correspondence concerning his illness, funeral and memorial services; and clippings, memorials, reprints of articles by Harper and bibliography of his works. It also contains books from the library of William Rainey Harper, including Prophetae Posteriores; notebooks of both Harper and his secretary; and scrapbooks.
Yerkes Observatory, located in Williams Bay, Wisconsin, is a facility of the University of Chicago's Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics. Known as the home of the last of the great refracting telescopes, the observatory housed the university's Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics until the 1960s, and was the site of some of the most significant research in modern astronomy and astrophysics. This collection contains records of the Office of the Director of Yerkes Observatory, documenting the administrative history of the observatory from before its founding through the mid-1940s.
The Idea of the University of Chicago Records consist of photocopied writings and addresses of the first eight presidents of the University of Chicago. The materials in this collection were compiled by William Michael Murphy and D.J. R. Bruckner during research for the book The Idea of the University of Chicago.
The International House Council Records consist of minutes of Council meetings (1970-1972), copies of the Chicago Compass, International House Board of Governors minutes (1959-1973), correspondence, memoranda, and other records of the Council.
The Innominates / X-Club Records consists of 2.75 linear feet of material and cover the period 1917-1982. The collection contains records for both the Innominates and the X-Club. Both clubs were organizations of faculty in the physical, biological, and social sciences at the University of Chicago. Files include membership rosters, correspondence, speakers records, nominations, secretaries lists, ballots, announcements, and procedures.
The Institute for Nuclear Studies Cyclotron Records contains correspondence with the Navy and sub-contractors about the building of the cyclotron, the construction of the Accelerator Building, designs for large electro-nuclear machines, and equipment needed to service the cyclotron. The collection also includes budgets and related materials.
In 1959, the National Planning Commission and the Institute of Public Administration in cooperation with the Congress for Cultural Freedom organized a Seminar on Comparative Administrative Problems Related to Social and Economic Development. The seminar was held from April 21 to 29 in Cairo and featured papers delivered by experts in Public Administration from Arab, European, and Asian countries.
The Jazz Textile Collection contains t-shirts promoting jazz-related events and organizations. The t-shirts date from around the mid-1990s through 2001.
John Gunther, journalist and writer. The John Gunther Papers consist of different draft versions of Gunther's books along with correspondence, articles, and notes related to these projects. Papers related to Chicago Revisited.
Joseph H. Rush was the first Secretary-Treasurer of the Federation of American Scientists (FAS). The Joseph H. Rush papers cover the period 1945 through 1948 and deal primarily with the formation and early years of the FAS. They consist mostly of letters about the business of FAS or its predecessors.
The Jazz Institute of Chicago is a non-profit organization founded in 1969 to help preserve the history of jazz in Chicago. The Jazz Institute of Chicago Records contain administrative material, publications, photographs, audio-visual material, articles, ephemera, and audio material which document the institution's events, board meetings, and involvement in the Chicago jazz community.
Jenkin Lloyd Jones, minister, social reformer. The Jenkin Lloyd Jones papers contain correspondence, diaries, lecture notes, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and photographs. Papers relate to All Souls Church and the Abraham Lincoln Centre. Other topics include the Unitarian Church, the Henry Ford Peace Expedition, the Western Unitarian Conference, the weekly publication Unity, the World's Parliament of Religion, Tower Hill Summer Camp in Wisconsin, and other aspects of Jones' ministry. Correspondents include William C. Gannett, Jane Addams, Susan B. Anthony, Francis W. Parker, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Booker T. Washington. Also contains papers of Edith Lackersteen Lloyd Jones, Jones's second wife; her daughter, Mary Lackersteen; and the Lackersteen family.
The Journal of Religion Records consist of correspondence from the editorial offices of the Journal of Religion and its two predecessors, The Biblical World and the American Journal of Theology. The correspondence concerns articles and book reviews submitted, subscriptions, budgets and financial matters, and printing arrangements with the University of Chicago Press.
The Wilson, John Todd. Papers consist of 4.5 linear feet of speeches and remarks, correspondence, certificates, published papers and book reviews, and Wilson's masters thesis and dissertation. Ninth president of the University of Chicago, Wilson was an expert on relations between universities and government. While provost he responded to economic pressures of inflation and cutbacks in government aid to education by implementing a five-year austerity plan. He was also noted for his fundraising efforts and as a supporter of student activities.
Norman Maurice Kaplan, economist, professor. The Norman Maurice Kaplan Papers consist of course notes, syllabi, and miscellaneous papers in economics collected during Kaplan's graduate years at the University of Chicago. The papers also contain notes from courses at Stanford University and the Graduate School of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
This collection contains photographs by Yousuf Karsh (1908-2002), collected by Charles Anton Bill. Yousuf Karsh, a Turkish and Canadian photographer, is best known for his portrait photographs of significant cultural and political figures. This collection contains Karsh's silver gelatin prints of Winston Churchill, Pope John XXIII, and John F. Kennedy. Throughout his career, Karsh was celebrated for his dramatic use of lighting to portray the likeness of his subjects. The three images in the collection date from 1941 to 1960.
Hugo Kauder, composer, musician. The Hugo Kauder Papers and Addenda includes records, holograph manuscript scores, reproduced manuscript scores, and published scores. Many of the scores reproduced by blueprint process bear holograph revisions or dynamic markings in pen or pencil, and a number of scores are inscribed to Edward E. Lowinsky and his family. This collection has been assigned Codex Manuscript #1399.
Nathaniel Kleitman, recognized as the father of modern sleep research, served on the faculty of the University of Chicago's Department of Physiology. His papers include notes, experiment data, drafts of articles and books, academic reprints, newspaper clippings, photographs, artifacts, and audio-visual recordings.
William Kruskal, professor of statistics. The William Kruskal Papers consist of materials relating to student protests at the University of Chicago and elsewhere in 1969. Although this represents the bulk of the papers in the collection, there are also materials on the Harris Committee materials concerning an Afro-American Cultural Center, the Wegener Report, the Spartacus Report, the Gray Report on the status of women faculty, Edward H. Levi's correspondence, and materials from Kruskal's tenure as a member of the Faculty Committee on Government Contracts and Grants (1964-1973). The papers in the collection include correspondence, memoranda, newspaper clipping, articles, and other materials.
Contains documents, primarily correspondence written by or to Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Montier, Marquis de Lafayette (1757-1834). Also included are letters related to Lafayette's son, George Washington du Motier de Lafayette (1779-1849) and grandson, Edmond du Motier de Lafayette (1818-1888). Codex Ms 303.
Karen Landahl (1951-2003) was a linguist who taught at the University of Chicago, in the Department of Linguistics, from 1982 to 2003. She was also the Academic Director of the Language Labs and Archives and the Language Faculty Resource Center, and the Associate Dean for Computing and Language Technologies at the University. The materials in this collection include teaching materials for the courses she taught, a range of academic papers on various topics in the field of linguistics and speech pathology, and material related to her own research on early language development, craniofacial anomalies, and Japanese phonetics. This collection would be of interest to researchers interested in developments in the field of linguistics and communications disorders between 1980 and 2000.
J. Laurence Laughlin (1850-933), Professor of Political Economy, editor of the Journal of Political Economy. The J. Laurence Laughlin Papers consist of a small collection of writings, correspondence, lectures notes and miscellany. The primary focus of the collection centers on two economic controversies in which Laughlin was involved concerning U. S. silver monetary policy and the legality and benefits of labor unions.
Gerhardt Laves (b. July 15, 1906, d. March 14, 1993) was a linguist who conducted research on several Aboriginal languages in Australia, taught at Indian boarding schools in Navajo Nation, also known as Diné Bikéyah or Navajoland, and worked at various Chicago institutions. This collection contains materials from Laves’ personal and professional life, including his linguistic notes on the Bardi language and photographs. Also included are language resources, publications, and maps from Laves’ employment in Navajo Nation. The collection contains documents and photographs from Laves’ work at the International Harvester Company and the Chicago Police Department, materials related to the Hyde Park and Kenwood neighborhoods, and documents related to Laves’ involvement at the University of Chicago. Additionally, the collection includes Laves’ photographs, film negatives, and glass slides documenting family and professional activities. Materials date between 1916 and 1982, with the bulk of materials dating between 1916 and 1949.
Donald Levine was a professor of Sociology at the University of Chicago from 1962 to 2015. This collection contains records from his time as a professor and administrator.
Ernst Levy (1895-1981), composer and professor of music at the University of Chicago (1951-54). Papers include musical scores and many significant written academic works, including a French manuscript of his book A Theory of Harmony. Public and biographical items include an extensive radio broadcast interview, late interest and news articles mentioning Levy and significant correspondence, biographical information, catalogs of released recordings and copies of catalogued records from European libraries.
Reuben Thomas Durrett (1824-1913), lawyer, manuscript and book collector, and Kentucky historian. The Lewis family were 18th century land dealers in Kentucky. The Reuben T. Durrett Collection of the Lewis Family Papers consists primarily of legal and business documents connected with the Kentucky land dealings of John Lewis and his sons, Gabriel and Warner Washington Lewis. It contains receipts, land grants, household accounts (including one that involves the sale of slaves), contracts, land surveys, land indentures, promissory notes, and a travel journal.
Julian Herman Lewis (1891-1989) was a pathologist, educator, and author of The Biology of the Negro (1942), a groundbreaking investigation of contemporary scientific data and literature on African-American physiology and pathology that resisted and rebuked scientific notions of racial inferiority. His wife, Eva Overton Lewis (1893-1945), was the daughter of entrepreneur Anthony Overton and a graduate of the University of Chicago. The collection includes personal ephemera, correspondence, photographs and negatives, one DVD, newspapers, textiles, and memorabilia. Materials date between circa 1887 and 2015, with the bulk of the material dating between the 1890s and the 1940s. The collection is primarily a family collection, documenting the personal lives of Eva Overton Lewis, Julian Herman Lewis, their parents, and their children. It is a record of middle and upper-class African-American life in Chicago and Cairo, Illinois in the first half of the 20th century.
The University of Chicago Library Records contain correspondence, memoranda, minutes, committee reports, budgets, annual reports, accession records, personnel files, the Library Handbook, brochures, and scrapbooks. Materials in the collection document the tenure of Zella Allen Dixson as Assistant Librarian (1892-1895) and Associate Librarian (1895-1910). Also included is material from the administrations of Ernest DeWitt Burton as Director (1910-1925) and J.C.M. Hanson as Associate Director (1910-1927) and Acting Director (1927-1928). Topics include the establishment of the new University's library, library administration, library policies, the Berlin Collection, departmental libraries versus a central library, Harper Memorial Library, classification, gifts and accessions, extension libraries, staffing, information on other libraries, adequate space for collections, and dissertations.
The collection includes digitized copies of catalogs and other publications relating to exhibits held at the University of Chicago Library’s Hanna Holborn Gray Special Collections Research Center.
The American Historical Portraits collection forms part of the William E. Barton Collection of Lincolniana. The majority of the materials in this collection are portraits of political figures; statesmen and soldiers. Included among these are a small number of affiliated professionals, such as writers, clergymen, naturalists, and artists.
The Lincoln Collection, Monuments and Memorials contains photographs and newspaper articles detailing monuments and memorial sites relating to Abraham Lincoln. It also includes printed reproductions of places and events relating to the Civil War. The collection forms part of the William E. Barton Collection of Lincoliana.
The Lincoln Collection, Sheet Music contains sheet music relating to Abraham Lincoln, the Civil War, and the American nation in general during the nineteenth century. It forms a part of the William E. Barton Collection of Lincolniana.
Luther Lee Bernard, sociologist. The Luther Lee Bernard Papers include data that Bernard collected for his studies, only part of which apparently was included in his published works. Generally this data can be divided into two general groups: 1) Material, mostly responses to a form letter, relating to the development of the teaching of sociology in American colleges and universities; and 2) the intellectual careers of influential and pioneer sociologists. The collection also includes correspondence relating to these projects.
Lloyd Appleton Metzler (1913-1980) was an economist, professor, and author. He was a faculty member of the University of Chicago from 1947 until his death. The collection includes manuscripts, typescripts, and notes for unidentified books; a draft of his Harvard thesis; and reprints of Metzler's articles for The Review of Economic Statistics and Econometrica. The materials date approximately from the 1940s to the 1950s.
The collection contains handbill advertising lotteries held in Great Britain from 1806 to 1826.
Reuben Thomas Durrett (1824-1913), lawyer, manuscript and book collector, and Kentucky historian. Edmund Lyne (d. 1791), was an entrepreneur and operator of salt licks, a whiskey still, and a ferry service in Blue Licks, Kentucky. The Reuben T. Durrett Collection of the Edmund Lyne Estate Papers consists of business records from the latter part of Lyne's life and documents related to the execution of his will by Harry Innes. The collection contains account books (1786-1791), estate records (1774-1804), and papers related to the care of Lyne's slaves after his death, in preparation for their manumission. Also includes a letter (1889) that mentions that the Lyne papers were found among Harry Innes' possessions. Materials span the period 1786-1889.
Chicago's 57th Street Art Fair continues its role as one of the country's largest not-for-profit art fairs dedicated to exhibiting original art by artists who sell their own work. The Art Fair originated in 1948 when Hyde Park gallery owner May Louise Womer saw a need for local artists to network with each other and to their public directly. Invitations for the outdoor event were sent to galleries, art schools, and artists throughout the city. Initially the fair was open to all artists, but as the response grew each year, there became a need to limit entrants. In 1963, the Art Fair Committee was organized. Composed of critics, collectors, curators and artists, the panel chose which artists would display their work in the fair. This screening process is still in effect today. Once an artist is accepted, their exhibit space is held for their return through subsequent fairs; around 500 aspiring exhibitors compete for the 40 to 50 spaces that are vacated each year. Recently, over 300 artists exhibited in the Fair. Every year since 1948 there has been a 57th Street Art Fair, usually held the first weekend in June.
Sun Ra was born Herman Poole Blount on May 22, 1914 in Birmingham Alabama and was regarded as a skilled pianist and composer by his early teenage years. Although Blount based his musical activities in Birmingham until 1945, his big band toured extensively, playing Chicago in 1934 where he registered with the local musicians union under the name Sonny Blount. Blount read extensively, researching mystical and occult practices, ancient culture, biblical history, and contemporary developments in science and space exploration. During 1942-1943 he was imprisoned for draft resistance prior to being released with a 4-F classification.
In the winter of 1946 Blount migrated to Chicago, settling near Washington Park. Although regarded as eccentric by some, Blount was a respected and studied musician and was regularly employed as a pianist, composer, and arranger in the vibrant south side music scene. During the early 1950s he began rehearsing his own groups, ultimately leading to the 1955 creation of the Arkestra, the large ensemble he directed until his death in 1993. In October 1952 Blount legally changed his name to "Le Sony'r Ra" at the Circuit Court of Cook County, with "Sun Ra" serving thereafter as an abbreviated version of his new name.
Alton Abraham was born in Chicago on May 5, 1927. He served in the U.S Military in Okinawa from 1945-1947, and upon returning to Chicago in 1947 graduated from Du Sable High School, followed by Wilson Junior College in 1950. In 1952 he was certified as an x-ray technician at Provident Hospital. Blount and Abraham became acquainted in 1951, sharing interests in mysticism, the occult, science, numerology, and ancient history.
Along with Abraham's brother Artis, the men founded El Saturn Research in 1957, which would record and distribute albums by the Arkestra as well as the vocal and R&B groups rehearsed by Sun Ra during the late 1950s.
Additionally, Ra and Abraham organized Thmei Research, an organization dedicated to "subjects cosmic, spiritual, philosophical, religious, historical, scientific, economical, etc." Thmei also provided financing for El Saturn's earliest releases and issued a newsletter and book catalog. The earliest El Saturn recordings are singles dating from 1955 and 1956, including the Cosmic Rays "Dreaming" b/w "Daddy's Gonna Tell You No Lie." Some of the Arkestra's earliest studio recordings were released as Jazz By Sun Ra (1956) on Transition Records, and Super Sonic Jazz (1957) on Saturn Records.
In 1961 Sun Ra left Chicago for Montreal with members of the Arkestra including Marshall Allen and John Gilmore. Lacking sustained employment in Montreal, the group relocated to New York City where further difficulty finding work encouraged communal living arrangements. While Sun Ra would never again reside in Chicago, Abraham continued to manage some of the Arkestra's business engagements and the Saturn Record label in Chicago. By the late 1960s Sun Ra began giving performances on college campuses and appeared on the cover of Rolling Stone. During these years, recordings on ESP Records such as The Heliocentric Worlds of Sun Ra Vols. 1 and 2 (1965, 1966), added to the growing catalog of Sun Ra recordings available through Saturn Records such as The Magic City (1966) and Atlantis (1969). In 1967 Abraham, along with Sun Ra, James Bryant, and Almeter Hayden, incorporated Ihnfinity, Inc. in the State of Illinois with the intention of it serving as an umbrella organization for Sun Ra's activities. The following year Sun Ra and members of the Arkestra would move into a large home in the Germantown neighborhood of Philadelphia, commuting regularly to New York City for performances. In 1972 Ra and Abraham published two volumes of Sun Ra's poetry, The Immeasurable Equation, and Extensions Out: The Immeasurable Equation Vol. 2, some of which had previously appeared on the back cover of Saturn Records.
Opportunities for international performance expanded significantly during the 1970s and Arkestra recordings became more widely available following a 1972 agreement with Impulse Records, who reissued The Magic City and Atlantis in 1973. While Sun Ra would continue sending recordings to Abraham in Chicago through the late 1970s, such as The Soul Vibrations of Man (1977) and Taking a Chance on Chances (1977), he also began independently pressing Saturn records in Philadelphia, relying on the assistance of Arkestra members. Similarly, as performance opportunities expanded throughout the 1970s Arkestra trumpeter Danny Thompson increasingly took on the responsibilities of de facto business and tour manager.
Following Sun Ra's death in Birmingham 1993, Abraham became involved with the reissue and rerelease of out-of-print Sun Ra recordings. In addition to his activities with Sun Ra, Abraham was employed as an x-ray technician, and independently pursued his interests in spirituality, history, science, and technology. Alton Abraham died June 6, 1999 in Chicago.
Jane Addams (September 6, 1860 – May 21, 1935) was a prominent activist in the Progressive Era of American History (1890s – 1920s). In her roles as social workers, sociologist, author, and reformer, Jane Addams became a role model for many women across the country. In addition to being the second woman to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize (1931), Addams was a co-founder of the ACLU and of the Hull House, a settlement for social reform in Chicago.
Johann Friedrich Ahlfeld was born on October 16, 1843 in Alseben an der Saale, Province Sachsen, Germany. He studied gynecology and obstetrics in Greifswald, Vienna, Tübingen, and Leipzig, where he was an assistant of Carl Sigmund Franz Crede (1819-1892). Ahlfeld was conferred doctor of medicine on 22 February, 1868. He became professor of midwifery in Leipzig, and then relocated to Giessen. There, he was professor of obstetrics and director of the midwifery teaching institution. Ahlfeld moved to Marburg in 1883 where he served as professor of obstetrics and director of the Royal School of Midwifery. He was named privy medical counselor in 1894 and retired from teaching in 1909.
Ahlfeld is the namesake of several medical terms: Ahlfeld’s manipulation, an external manipulation to push out the placenta which minimizes blood loss; Ahlfeld’s sign I, an irregular uterine contraction after the third month of pregnancy; and Ahlfeld’s sign II, a slight loosening of the placenta.
Ahlfeld died on May 25, 1929 in Marburg, Germany.
Establishment and Purpose of the Institute-
In December of 1880, at the Morgan Park Theological Seminary, one of the first correspondence schools in the country was established by William Rainey Harper. By February 1881, the Correspondence School of Hebrew had an enrollment of three hundred students, mostly ministers and teachers, and a movement which might justly be called a revival in the study of the Old Testament in the original tongue was begun. In 1883 the school was renamed the American Institute of Hebrew; in 1889 Harper, now Professor of Hebrew and Woolsey Professor of the English Bible at Yale University, realized a need for broadening the scope of the Institute's work and it was expanded to include Biblical Hebrew, such as Syriac, Assyrian and Arabic, the Bible in the original tongues, the Bible in the ancient versions, the Old and New Testaments in English, and Biblical literature, history and Theology.
Harper and the Institute-
From the founding of the Institute until the beginnings of the University of Chicago in 1892, the strong personality of Harper appears in every phase of the Institute's operation. From 1892 until his death in 1906, Harper's influence is seen less in the affairs of the Institute as he devoted himself more and more to the young University. Although the Institute maintained a constant fund raising effort, it is clear that after Harper turned most of his energy toward the University, the Institute began to suffer from a lack of money often sufficient enough to cause a slowing of its work. Beyond the money problem there were the more serious problems of the loss of Harper, with his imagination and drive, and the changing times. Reorganization and adjustment became the normal pattern of the Institute's operation as it attempted to survive after the interest which had called it into being was dead.
The University of Chicago and the Institute-
The relation between the Institute and the University of Chicago began as soon as the University started to function. Upon the opening of the University and the organization of the University of Chicago Press, the good will of The Old and New Testament Student (published by the Institute) was transferred to the Press and the publication of Hebraica and The Biblical World began. Upon the organization of the Correspondence Department of the University, in the same year (1892), such courses of the Institute as would lead to University credit were transferred to the Department and carried on cooperatively. In the middle of 1905 the University's Board of Trustees carried out Harper's wish to make the Institute a part of the University and it was soon firmly attached to the Divinity School. By 1924 the Institute was handling most of the Divinity School's extension work; by the early 1940s the Institute had reversed its position and was placed under the Divinity School's
Director of Extension, and by the mid-forties the Institute had ceased to function, except to fill orders for material if a stock still existed. (In Appendix II will be found a rough chronology of the Institute, some material quoted and some cited.)
The Administration of the Institute-
In the early years of the Institute, from 1880 to 1883, the administration rested largely in Harper's hands. However, by 1883, the Institute had grown to such an extent that a stock company was formed to conduct both the Correspondence and the Summer Schools of Hebrew, sponsored by the Institute. The following year a division of responsibility placed the publishing feature of the Institute in the hands of the stock company and the educational work with Dr. Harper. When the American Institute of Hebrew was formed in December of 1883 the organization consisted of seventy professors of Hebrew and the Old Testament subjects in the United States and Canada, and between one and two hundred interested persons, as associate members and patrons providing financial support. In 1889, when the American Institute of Sacred Literature was organized, Harper became principal and a board of twelve directors was appointed. A President, Vice-President, Secretary, Principal, Treasurer and Auditor, together with five instructors administered the work of the reformed Institute and gave instruction to its students. In 1890 Local Boards were organized in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Kansas City and San Francisco, and under their auspices Winter Schools for Bible study of from one to twelve weeks each were held. In this year, also, publishing interests were transferred to the Student Publishing Company of Hartford, Connecticut, and the magazine The Old Testament Student became The Old and New Testament Student.
In 1891 the headquarters of the Institute moved with Harper to Chicago. The Secretary and two members of the teaching staff were brought to Chicago, and the eastern interests, chiefly financial, were left with Dr. F. K. Sanders of Yale. In 1896 the Institute was incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois. In 1905 the Institute was accepted by the University of Chicago with the agreement that the University continue the Institute "as part of the extension work of the University." At this time President Harper placed the immediate administration of the Institute under the control of an executive committee, selected form members of the Divinity School faculty, and an Executive Secretary who were responsible to the President and through him to the Board of Trustees.
Professor Ernest D. Burton, the first Chairman of the Institute's Executive Committee, remained active until his appointment as Director of the University Library. After this Miss Georgia L. Chamberlin, who had been Harper's secretary in the pre-Chicago days, and who remained with the Institute until 1935, carried on the work of the Institute from her post as Executive Secretary. Upon her retirement in 1935, Professor Archibald G. Baker was appointed Director and remained in this position until 1940. Between 1940 and 1943 the Institute was placed under a committee and then Professor Sidney E. Mead was appointed Director. After little more than a year the dying Institute ceased to function actively and was subordinated to the Divinity School's Director of Extension.
Samuel King Allison was born in Chicago on November 13, 1900. In 1917 he entered the University of Chicago and received his Bachelor of Science degree in 1921 and his doctorate in 1923. Following his graduation, he became a fellow of the National Research Council at Harvard University (1923-1925); a fellow at the Carnegie Institute (1925-1926); and a member of the faculty at the University of California (1926-1930). In 1930 Allison returned to the University of Chicago, and, from that time until his death in September 1965, continued to be associated with the University.
During his career at the University of Chicago, Allison was not only active as a teacher and a research scientist, but also as an administrator and a civil servant. In the 1930s, Allison conducted experiments with X-rays, and published his results in a book, X-rays in Theory and Experiment. In the 1940s he began work on the liberation of nuclear energy, and was a member of the team working under Enrico Fermi which achieved the first self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction on December 2, 1942. Between 1943 and 1944 Allison served as director of the "Metallurgical Laboratory" which was developing a method for producing plutonium.
In November, 1944 Allison joined the Manhattan Project and was chairman of the Technical and Scheduling Committee at the Los Alamos Laboratory. He returned to the University of Chicago in 1945 to become the first director of the newly-formed Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear Studies. While director of the Institute, Allison encouraged the exchange of scientific information, free from military control. Allison also helped to found The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, and visited Spain and South America as guest lecturer and advisor.
In order to devote all of his time to research projects, Allison resigned as director of the Fermi Institute in 1958. He continued to travel, however, and was appointed by the Organization of American States to a "Direct Technical Assistance Field Mission" to the Centro Atomico, San Carlos de Variloche. From 1960 to 1963 Allison also served as Chairman of the Physics Section of the National Academy of Sciences.
When Herbert L. Anderson, Allison's successor at the Fermi Institute, resigned in 1963 to continue his research with a new particle accelerator at Argonne National Laboratory, Allison resumed his duties as director. Two years later, on September 1, 1965, Allison died while attending the Plasma Physics and Controlled Nuclear Fusion Research Conference held in Culham, England.
The Alumni Foundation was established in 1941 by University of Chicago alumni dedicated to raising money for undergraduate education.
Polly Scribner Ames was the daughter of University of Chicago philosophy professor and University Church pastor Edward Scribner Ames and the sister of Van Meter Ames, University of Cincinnati philosophy professor and author. Born in 1908, Ames attended the School of the Art Institute Chicago and received a Ph.B. from the University of Chicago. She lived in New York City for much of her adult life and also spent time in Europe, including several years in France. She exhibited paintings and sculpture and taught art courses in both the United States and Europe. Ames died in Chicago in 1993.
Van Meter Ames was born on July 9, 1898 in De Soto, Iowa. He was the son of Mabel Van Meter Ames and Edward Scribner Ames (1870-1958), who taught in the Philosophy department at the University of Chicago and was pastor of the University Church of the Church of the Disciples of Christ and dean of the Disciples Divinity House. Van Meter Ames received his B.A. and Ph.D (1924) from the University of Chicago.
Ames joined the faculty of the University of Cincinnati in 1925 and became chairman of the department of philosophy in 1959. Ames received a Rockefeller grant to study French philosophy in 1948, was named Fulbright research professor at Komazawa University in Tokyo, and was designated Humanist Fellow for Outstanding Contributions to Humanist Thought in Ethics and Aesthetics in 1976 by the American Humanist Association. He had interim appointments at Cornell University, the University of Texas, the University of Hawaii, Columbia University, and the University of Aix-Marseille where he was the first American faculty member. He retired in 1966.
Ames’ works include Aesthetics of the Novel (1928), Proust and Santayana: The Aesthetic Way of Life (1937), Zen and American Thought (1962), and To Find the Simple Things (1978).
Ames married Betty Breneman. Their children are Sanford Scribner Ames, Damaris Ames, and Christine Ames Cornish.
Van Meter Ames died on November 5, 1985.
Michael Anania was born on August 5, 1939 in Omaha, Nebraska. His mother, Dora, was born in Germany and his father, Angelo, was born in Omaha to Italian parents. Angelo died of tuberculosis when Anania was nine years old, and his memories of and interest in his father appears throughout his poetry and writing. In December 1960, Anania married Joanne Oliver and they had one child, Francesca.
Anania attended inner-city schools in Omaha and went on to receive a Bachelor of Arts from the Municipal University of Omaha (now the University of Nebraska-Omaha) in 1961. While an undergraduate, he edited the campus literary magazine and wrote poetry, plays, and stories, often influenced by Jean-Paul Sartre and existentialism. Anania was a Fellow in English and American Literature and worked toward a Ph.D. from State University of New York – Albany, where he wrote his dissertation on William Carlos Williams. He was an instructor of English at SUNY Buffalo in 1964, SUNY Fredonia from 1964-1965, and Northwestern University from 1965-1968. He was a professor of English at University of Illinois – Chicago from 1968-2003, director of the Graduate Program for Writers, and also visiting professor at Northwestern University and University of Chicago. He taught courses in creative writing, poetry, English literature, American literature, fiction, drama, and literary criticism.
Two of Anania’s early influences were William Carlos Williams and Wallace Stevens. Throughout his career, he established relationships with and was influenced by other renowned poets, including Karl Shapiro, whom he met while at the Municipal University of Omaha. While at Buffalo, he met and worked with Albert Cook, Charles Olson, Robert Creeley, Gregory Corso, Ed Dorn, Leroi Jones, Diane Wakowski, Leslie Fiedler, and Hugh Kenner. At a Poetry event Anania met W.H. Auden, who helped foster Anania’s appreciation for English poetry.
Anania wrote or edited over twenty books, mainly poetry, including The Color of Dust (1970), Riversongs (1978), The Sky at Ashland (1986), In Plain Sight: Essays (1991), Selected Poems (1994), In Natural Light (1999), and Heat Lines (2006), plus a novel, The Red Menace (1984). His work also appears in many anthologies, including New Poetry Anthology (1969), Beowulf to the Beatles (1972), Chicago Works (1990), Smokestacks and Skyscrapers: An Anthology of Chicago Writing (1999), Illinois Voices (2001), Poems of the Sea and the Land (2004), and The Norton Anthology of Modern Poetry, as well as numerous periodicals such as Poetry, Tri-Quarterly, Partisan Review, Chicago Tribune, New York Times, Columbia Review of the Arts, Vortex, and Literary Review.
Besides being a prolific writer, Anania held many editorial positions. He was poetry editor for Audit, a quarterly and Partisan Review, poetry and literary editor of The Swallow Press, contributing editor to Tri-Quarterly and VENUE, and on the boards of Wesleyan University Press, Prairie State Editions of the University of Illinois Press, Thunder’s Mouth Press, Encyclopedia of Chicago History, and Dalkey Archive Press.
In addition to teaching and writing, Anania involved himself in various professional and literary organizations, such as the Council of Literary Magazines and Presses, National Endowment for the Arts, Coordinating Council of Literary Magazines, Illinois Arts Council, Poetry Center of Chicago, Read Illinois Program, Illinois Center for the Book, and The Arts Club of Chicago. He served on panels for the Artists Foundation in Boston, Carl Sandburg Awards at the Chicago Public Library, Chicago Council on Fine Arts, Society of Midland Authors, The Fiction Collective, The New York Foundation for the Arts, and the Arts Councils of several states. He also participated in the Poetry-in-the-Schools and Artists-in-the-Schools Programs in the Chicago area, where he conducted workshops for teachers and taught poetry classes to elementary and secondary school students. Anania also served on committees for programs such as Writing in Chicago, Italian American History Project, The Great Chicago Poetry Reunion, White House Conference on Libraries and Information Services, and Illinois Literary Heritage Conferences.
Anania performed readings and did interviews for several audio and video series, such as Dialogue, Hadley School Audio Tape Series, Illinois Reads, Library of Congress, and Nobel Laureate Series, and radio stations including BBC, Oregon Public Radio, Radio Bremen, Radio Nord (Hamburg), and Western Iowa Public Radio. His poetry has also been set to the stage by the Reed College Dance Company, MoMing Dance Collection (Chicago), Nebraska State Historical Society, The Brooklyn Academy of Fine Arts, and the Organic Theatre (Chicago). He gave lectures at the University of Victoria, Modern Languages Association, University of Cincinnati Conference on Poetry Programs, Illinois Writers’ Incorporated Conference, Art Institute of Chicago, National Writers’ Congress, The Field Museum (Chicago), Illinois Humanities Festival, Book America Expo, and the Goethe Institute Colloquium on Translation. He also gave poetry and fiction readings at Aurora University, Amerika Haus (Berlin, Hamburg and Hanover), Arizona State University, Boston University, Chicago Historical Society, Chicago Public Library, Library of Congress, National College of Education, New School for Social Thought, New York Public Library, Notre Dame University, Poetry Center of Chicago, Poetry Magazine, Smith College, University of Michigan, Vancouver Arts Center, and Yale University.
Anania received several awards for his writing, including the Friends of Literature Poetry Prize (1970), Roadstead Fellowship (1970-1972), Best Short Stories (1979), Pushcart Prize (1980), Illinois Arts Council Fellowship in Fiction (1980), five Arts Council Literary Awards (1974-1989), National Magazine Award (1981), IATE Author of the Year (1985), and the Independent Booksellers Association Award for Best Paperback Novel (The Red Menace, 1994).
Anania remains involved in several organizations and continues to write.
Charles Arnold Anderson was born on January 13, 1907 in Platte, South Dakota to Edward Thomas and Edith (Orvis). He received a B.A (1927), M.A. (1928) and a Ph.D (1932) from the University of Minnesota.
Anderson was on the faculty of the University of Minnesota in 1929. He was at Harvard University from 1930 to 1935, and again in 1943. From 1936 to 1943 Anderson was at Iowa State University, and moved to the University of Kentucky from 1945 to 1948. He worked on various U.S. Government assignments from 1944 to 1945. Anderson was a member of the faculty at the University of California, Berkeley from 1948 to 1949. From 1954 to 1955 Anderson was a visiting professor at the University of Lund (Sweden), and remained in Uppsala as a Fullbright scholar until 1956.
In 1958 Anderson came to the University of Chicago as a professor. He was the first director of the University's Comparative Education Center from 1958 to 1972.
Anderson was a consultant to UNESCO and to the Ford Foundation. He was a
visiting professor at the University of Stockholm in 1974 and the University of London in 1975.
Anderson has over 200 publications in journals of sociology, education, political science, and economics. He was the joint editor of Education, Economy, and Sociology in 1961 and Education and Economic Growth in 1965. Anderson served on the editorial board of the Comparative Education Review was the chief editor of the American Journal of Sociology from 1967 to 1973.
Anderson was the co-founder of the International Study of Educational Achievement (IEA) and was president of the Comparative and International Education Society from 1962 to 1963. He received an honorary doctorate from the University of Stockholm and was elected to the Swedish Royal Society. In 1986 he was inducted as one of the first Honorary Fellows of the Comparative and International Education Society.
Anderson married Dr. Mary Jean Bowman on July 18, 1942. They had one son, Lloyd Barr.
C. Arnold Anderson died on June 26, 1990 in Chicago.
The Department of Anthropology at the University of Chicago was founded in 1929 under the chairmanship of Fay-Cooper Cole, but had a longer historical presence at the University. Anthropology was established as a field of early interest at the University of Chicago through William Rainey Harper's appointment in 1892 [the first year that classes were held] of Frederick Starr as the first faculty member in anthropology. This was one of Harper's first acts as the inaugural president of the University of Chicago.
Starr was originally appointed into the "scientific department", but with Harper's development of the "social science" (or sociology) department under Albion W. Small, he was quickly reappointed. During the period of his appointment until his retirement in 1923, Professor Starr frequently traveled, conducting research in the United States and Mexico, as well as in Japan, Korea, the Philippines and Africa. Starr was an immensely popular teacher and lecturer, but his frequent travels regularly interrupted instruction in anthropology, necessitating the continued administrative integration of Anthropology with the department of Sociology.
Following Starr's retirement, the University offered a part-time appointment to Fay-Cooper Cole, who had done long-term fieldwork in the Philippines in 1906, and was employed at the Field Museum. Cole consolidated his position, lobbied for and achieved the separation between the departments of sociology and anthropology in 1929, and facilitated the recruitment and appointment of the brilliant linguistic anthropologist Edward Sapir, a second-generation student of Franz Boas who helped to shift the intellectual culture of the department away from Starr's museum orientation to the knowledge of the patterns of social behavior, and especially of symbolism. Sapir's influence inspired linguistic anthropological fieldwork by Manuel Andrade, Harry Hoijer and Father Bernard Haile amongst various communities in the United States and Mexico.
Sapir's appointment was followed shortly by that of Robert Redfield, whose policy-orientation towards contemporary America and interest and concern with contemporary social issues reveals the influence on the department of anthropology of the Chicago School of Sociology and its chair, Robert E. Park (who was also Redfield's teacher and father in law). Redfield and Tax's early research on rural and urban communities in Yucatan (and subsequently Guatemala) further articulated this influence. In addition to small portions here, larger collections on this research can be found in the papers of Robert Redfield and Sol Tax as well as the papers of the Chiapas Project.
Early research also included the archeological excavation of important sites in Illinois, including the Kincaid Mounds, which for many years served as a summer "field school" for anthropology graduate students and a key site where modern archeological field methods were developed and revolutionized. This research revealed how certain archeological features in these sites established the state of Illinois as central in the understanding of the ethno-history of the Mississippi Valley region. The department produced various monographs and a comparative pictorial survey (conducted primarily by Thorne Deuel) of the archeology of the region.
A significant moment in early departmental history was the initially temporary appointment of British social-anthropologist Alfred Reginald Radcliffe-Brown to the faculty to replace Sapir's initially temporary position at Yale. Radcliffe Brown's reworking of Durkheimian themes in his ahistorical approach to social structure and function reoriented the department towards the "social science" from which it had since departed. This perspective contrasted sharply with Sapir's historically particularist Boasian framework, resulting in a revealing schism between the "socially" and "culturally" oriented anthropologists in the department. Both their respective "temporary" appointments became permanent, until Radcliffe-Brown's departure for Oxford in 1937 and Sapir's death in 1939.
In the late 1950's the recruitment of Lloyd Fallers, Clifford Geertz and David Schneider from the University of California Berkeley breathed new life into the department following the death of Redfield (of Leukemia in 1958) and the departure of Sherwood Washburn and Lloyd Warner. These former three scholars reoriented the department towards a symbolic approach to anthropology, which had a monumental impact on the field. These young scholars also oriented the department towards the ongoing recruitment of "star" anthropologists who would revolutionize the field. The personal and professional papers of these three scholars are all available for research in the University of Chicago Library, Special Collections Research Center.
Subsequent faculty hires with a significant impact on the culture, research and ongoing influence of the department of anthropology include Marshall Sahlins, Bernard Cohn, Michael Silverstein, Jean and John Comaroff, Terence Turner, Stanley Tambiah, Nancy Munn, Valerio Valeri and George Stocking. These scholars have all further articulated the themes that have long concerned Chicago anthropologists with increased attention to the relationship between anthropology and history, colonialism and imperialism and semiotic approaches to culture. Rooted in these historical and contemporary influences, the University of Chicago's Department of Anthropology has continued to be one of the premier departments in anthropological instruction and research in the world.
Roman L. Weil, born in 1940, is an emeritus professor at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago. His research interests focus on corporate governance and financial literacy. Weil received his Bachelor's degree in Economics from Yale University in 1962. He received his Master's degree in Industrial Administration in 1965, and his Ph.D. in Economics in 1966 from Carnegie Mellon University. Weil began teaching at the University of Chicago in 1965. Throughout his career, Weil contributed more than one-hundred articles in professional and academic journals. He worked as an editor to The Accounting Review, The Journal of Accounting and Economics, and The Financial Analytics Journal. Outside of the classroom, Weil consulted for government agencies and private companies including the U.S. Treasury Department, British Petroleum, Cisco Systems, IBM, and many other organizations. Weil retired from teaching in 2008. Roman Weil donated this collection to the University of Chicago in 2013.
Boris Artzybasheff was born in Kharkov, Ukraine in 1899 to Mikhail Petrovich Artsybashev (1878-1927) and Anna Vasilyevna Kobushko. Mikhail Petrovich was a writer, known mostly for his 1904 novel Sanin and his involvement with the anti-Bolshevik newspaper Za Svobodu! ("For Freedom!"). In his early adulthood, Boris Artzybasheff fought in the Ukrainian army. In 1919, he left his homeland and traveled to America, where he arrived at Ellis Island, New York on June 17, 1919. In his early days in the United States, Artzybasheff worked as an illustrator and designed stage sets for Michel Fokine's Russian Ballet and the Ziegfeld Theatre. In 1925, the artist was naturalized as a United States Citizen. In February of 1930, he married Elizabeth Southard Snyder in New York City.
He continued working as an illustrator of books and advertisements in New York City. Fortune Magazine commissioned Artzybasheff to work on the cover of the April 1941 issue. This cover illustration--featured in the Roman Weil Collection--propelled Artzybasheff's career as a magazine illustrator. Throughout the rest of his career, he produced more than 200 covers for Time Magazine, as well as numerous maps and ads for magazines. His illustrations range from portraits of prominent figures to anthropomorphisations of machinery. During his lifetime, Artzybasheff won the John Newberry Award for book illustrations and was a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. Boris Artzybasheff passed away in July 1965 in Connecticut.
The Atomic Scientists of Chicago was founded on September 26, 1945, by the scientific employees of the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of Chicago, and was made open to any past or present scientific employee of the Manhattan Project. Work on some aspect of the bomb was a requisite for membership. The ASC was established to educate the public and the government in the political, social, and international implications attending the national and international development and exploitation of atomic energy. The constitution, adopted on October 30, 1945, defined the aims of the organization as, “to explore, clarify and formulate the opinion and responsibilities of scientists in regard to the problems brought about by the release of nuclear energy,…and to educate the public to a full understanding of the scientific, technological and social problems arising from the release of nuclear energy.”
ASC’s membership consisted of approximately two hundred, or almost ninety percent, of the University of Chicago’s scientists who had participated in the development of the bomb during the war years--coinciding with the Manhattan Project. Including such noted scientists as Harold Urey, Leo Szilard, Harrison Brown, Thorfin Hogness, and John Simpson. By December 1945 the body had been incorporated in Illinois as a non-profit organization, and had affiliated with the Federation of American Scientists.
On December 10, 1945, the first issue of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, a six-page periodical that was to grow into one of about fifty pages, appeared. The original executive committee was headed by J.A. Simpson, Jr., and the advisory committee was composed of Thorfin Hogness, chairman, Kenneth C. Cole, Farrington Daniels, James Franck, Robert S. Mulliken, Glenn T. Seaborg, Harold C. Urey and Walter H. Zinn. The staff was comprised of H.H. Goldsmith, secretary to the Executive Committee; L.C. Furney, treasurer; and Mrs. R. Adams, secretary.
In November 1945, a University Office of Inquiry into the Social Aspects of Atomic Energy was formed under University auspices as a companion organization to the Atomic Scientists of Chicago. This latter organization embraced the entire University, and its program and methods closely paralleled that of ASC.
The leading members of the Office of Inquiry were Professors E.A. Shils, Robert Redfield, Leo Szilard, T.W. Schultz, Jacob Marschak, Fred Eggan and Jacob Viner. The Office of Inquiry, though technically a separate organization, and open to those not qualified for membership in ASC, co-operated closely with ASC, especially on Bulletin articles and editorials, and on contacts and legislative agitation. As a result, some of its papers and correspondence, especially that of Robert Redfield, are incorporated in this collection.
In April 1949, a reorganization of ASC occurred. The Educational Foundation for Nuclear Science was incorporated under an Illinois charter as a non-profit educational organization with the sole function of publishing the Bulletin, hitherto published by ASC. The ASC continued as a separate organization, engaging in education and propaganda activities, as before, but with increased attention to political action. Its membership, resources and activities achieved a peak in the period of 1946 to 1947, subsequently undergoing a sharp decline, coincident with the decline in public interest over atomic energy problems. Again, in 1954, there was renewed interest in the organization, due to the threat scientist’s saw in “McCarthism” and the Oppenheimer Case. A further decline of ASC membership and activities led the organization, in February 1959, to propose that the Atomic Scientists of Chicago be disbanded. The proposal also suggested that their remaining funds be turned over to a new organization, the Atomic Science Fund, which was to be incorporated as a non-profit, educational body, devoted exclusively to organizing and conducting scientific conferences on atomic energy.
The ASC had conducted three conferences in Chicago (September and December 1945, and February 1946), and three abroad (Pugwash, N.S., 1957; La Beauport, Canada, 1958; and Vienna and Kitzbuhel, Austria, 1958). By re-incorporation, it was hoped that the group might obtain the tax exemption which it was not allowed under its original charter, inasmuch as it was then a political action group. The proposal from February 1959 was abandoned and a meeting was called in June 1959 to decide the future of the ASC.
The American Veterans Committee (AVC) was founded in 1944 as a progressive veteran’s organization and an alternative to groups such as The American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. As stated in its newsletter the organization sought, “to achieve a more Democratic and prosperous America and a more stable world.” With the motto of “citizens first, veterans second,” the AVC supported a range of liberal causes; for example, it challenged military segregation and maintained racially integrated chapters in Southern States. Targeted during post-WWII anti-communist campaigns, the AVC purged its Communist members in 1948, justifying the action through their goal to “extend and defend Democracy,” and to “keep the AVC a progressive Veterans’ organization independent of Communist Party-line control.” The AVC disbanded in 2003.
The Rev. William Eleazar Barton, born on June 28, 1861 (d. December 30, 1930) was one of the early twentieth century's most prominent writers and lecturers on the life of Abraham Lincoln. Born in Sublette, Illinois, in the same year Lincoln assumed the presidency, Barton grew up in an environment heavily influenced by reverence for Lincoln. He began undergraduate studies at Berea College in 1881 and graduated in 1885. However, during his senior year Barton decided to join the ministry and was ordained on June 6, 1885. On July 23, 1885 Barton married Esther Treat Bushnell. Together they would have 5 children. Barton returned to school and earned his divinity degree from the Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1890. He served parishes in Tennessee, Ohio, and Massachusetts before becoming the pastor of the First Congregational Church of Oak Park, Illinois, a position he held until his retirement in 1924. In 1928, Barton accepted an appointment as lecturer at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, where he also organized and served as pastor of the Collegeside Congregational Church.
Barton's work as a writer produced a number of denominational manuals and a series of books presenting the wisdom and parables of a character he named Safed the Sage. For the last ten years of his life, however, Barton was best known to the public as a prolific author and lecturer on Abraham Lincoln. His publications about Lincoln included The Soul of Abraham Lincoln (1920), The Paternity of Abraham Lincoln (1920), The Life of Abraham Lincoln (1925), The Great and Good Man (1927), The Women Lincoln Loved (1927), and The Lincoln of the Biographers (1930).
In the course of compiling material for his writings and talks, Barton visited Lincoln sites in Kentucky, Indiana, and Illinois; interviewed surviving Lincoln relatives and acquaintances; and traveled as far as California and England to collect information and conduct genealogical research on the ancestry of the Lincoln family. While acquiring a large collection of books, periodicals, pamphlets, manuscripts, and ephemera related to Lincoln and the Civil War era, Barton also purchased privately or at auction historical materials amassed by other Lincoln collectors such as John E. Burton and Osborn H. Oldroyd.
George Wells Beadle, professor, university administrator.
Henry Holmes Belfield, educator, was born November 17, 1837, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His family moved west in 1846, living in Iowa and Missouri. Belfield received an A.B. degree from Iowa College in 1858, A.M. degrees from Griswold College in 1861 and Iowa College in 1868, and a Ph.D. from Iowa College in 1878. Before moving to Chicago in 1866, he served as Principal and Superintendent of Public Schools in Dubuque, Iowa, and as an assistant adjutant general in the 8th Iowa Cavalry.
In Chicago, Belfield worked as Principal of Jones School, 1866-1868, Dore School, 1868-1876, and North Division High School, 1876-1883. In 1883 he was appointed as the first Director of the newly-formed Chicago Manual Training School. He and his family moved to Hyde Park the following year.
The Chicago Manual Training School was created by the Commercial Club of Chicago, its trustees included E. W. Blatchford, R. T. Crane, W. A. Fuller, Marshall Field, John Crerar, John W. Doane, W. K. Fairbank, Edson Keith, and George M. Pullman. It was conceived not as a trade school but as a high school that combined training in carpentry, drawing, and machine shopwork with mathematics, science, and language in a program of general education. The first of its kind in Chicago, it served as a model for the R. T. Crane Manual Training School and Armour Institute, as well as similar schools in other cities.
In 1897 the Commercial Club offered the school as a gift to the University of Chicago, and in 1903 it was merged with the South Side Academy to form the University High School. Belfield's title was changed to Dean of the Technological Course of the University High School, since the Manual Training School was technically dissolved. He served in that position until his retirement in 1908. Although he had recommended the acquisition of the school by the University, he felt that it was unfortunate that much of the school's identity and character were lost through the administrative changes. Belfield died June 5, 1912.
A dynamic man of broad interests and innovative flair, William Burnett Benton achieved distinction in many fields during his seventy-three years. He was blessed with a nearly unerring talent for the marketplace, but he is remembered especially for broad-ranging contributions in education and public affairs.
Born in Minneapolis on April 1, 1900, Benton was the first child of Charles William Benton, a Congregationalist clergyman and University of Minnesota professor, and Elma Hixson Benton, a country school superintendent. Benton and his younger brother, Daniel Hixson, grew up in a close-knit family which prized its activist heritage; their paternal grandparents had been missionaries in Lebanon from the 1840s through the 1870s, and the Hixsons were prominent in Democratic reform politics in Minnesota. Particularly through the forceful example of his mother, Benton early was imbued with humanitarian and public service ideals which his later life exemplified.
When Benton was thirteen his father died, and the family's situation changed radically. Young William entered Shattuck Academy in Faribault, Minnesota, on a partial scholarship, spending most vacations helping his mother in an ill-fated Montana homesteading venture undertaken with her father and brother. Though Benton disliked the isolated summers and the military regimen of the academic year, he was buoyed by the prospect of following a long line of Yale-educated Bentons who had been ministers, teachers, and professionals. Each year he stood close to the top of his class, but he always found time for extracurricular activities. In addition to sports, he supplemented his meager funds as Shattuck's sole agent for memory books, class pins, stationery, and a binder he invented for the new school paper. Through his schoolboy enterprise he began to discover entrepreneurial and selling talents which were to alter the direction of his ambitions.
In June 1917 Benton confidently took his final exams at Shattuck and the entrance exams for Yale. The college's English and mathematics requirements presented no difficulty, but he was shocked when he failed the French and Latin exams. Suddenly his dreams seemed unattainable, forcing the high school graduate to reevaluate the future.
In the meantime Elma Benton, seeking to improve her long-range career possibilities in teaching, had decided to earn a master's degree in education at Columbia University's Teachers College. Her solution to her elder son's predicament was to enroll him at Carleton College, where his aunt, Dr. Mary Benton, was dean of women. To his surprise Benton found all aspects of Carleton life congenial, and he weighed the notion of going against his mother's wishes by finishing his undergraduate work there. The dilemma disappeared when Congress passed a draft law covering ages 18 to 45, for Benton immediately left for Yale, where he was inducted into the Student Army Training Corps. Benton's hopes for military service were dashed only two months later with the signing of the armistice.
He stayed at Yale to retake the entrance examinations and in 1918 entered as a sophomore. Although quickly recognized as a prize debater and a frequent contributor to the Yale Record, it was a trying year for Benton academically and socially. He felt his Midwestern background and schooling branded him an outsider, and he resented the handicap as he adjusted to the social and intellectual atmosphere of the eastern institution. In early 1919 Benton began to make decisions which pointed him toward a business career. First came involvement in a college-calendar franchise, by which he impressed classmates with his promoting and selling techniques. Soon thereafter Benton was offered a Rhodes scholarship and had to confront the implications of his marketing aptitude. To his mother's dismay, he rejected it, instead accepting a prestigious summer training position in international trading and finance with National City Bank of New York.
That year brought major changes in his family situation as well. Elma Benton finished her degree work and was named headmistress at Hosmer Hall, a private girls' school in St. Louis, where she was to remain until her death in 1942. Dan Benton joined her there after spending the summer in New York City with his brother; but within a few months he had contracted an unidentified sleeping sickness, and he died in late December of 1919.
Benton had been elated to start his second year at Yale as one of the editors of the Yale Record, and soon after Dan's death he was elected chairman of the editorial board. Under his direction the staff solicited more advertising, and the magazine grew to boast the largest newsstand circulation of any college magazine in history. In addition to honing his writing and promotional skills, Benton formed important and long-lasting friendships during his college days. Among these men were Henry Luce, Jr., Robert M. Hutchins, Ralph Ingersoll, Galen Van Meter, and Reginald Marsh.
Graduating in 1921, Benton accepted a job with the National Cash Register Company, renowned for the quality of its salesmanship and the leadership of President John H. Patterson, the father of "scientific salesmanship." Within the earlier system, "drummers" had carried samples or catalogues demonstrating a range of products made by various manufacturers. Selling relied not only on the salesman's persuasiveness and personality but also on the customer's loyalty. The salesman had little incentive to improve performance since only novice or incompetent employees sold on commission; any good agent was tied to a set salary. Patterson revamped the system by assigning NCR salesmen specific territories, sales quotas, and a single product to be sold by creating a need for it among prospects. Another novel characteristic of Patterson's system was rewarding salesmen with generous prizes and more lucrative sales territories.
Benton's hiring violated two of Patterson's rules-of-thumb; he was under 25 and a college graduate. At first limited to menial or over-flow office work, Benton won an early chance to develop his selling skills because of his industriousness and aptitude. Despite being saddled with a notoriously unpromising trial territory, he exceeded his quota during his first month in the field. The auspicious beginning was insufficient inducement for company officials to waive minimum age requirements for NCR special training classes compulsory for advancement. Impatient and disenchanted, Benton decided to shift to advertising.
He broke into the new field with a $25-a-week job with the New York branch of Lord and Thomas, then the world's largest and most profitable advertising agency. Albert D. Lasker, its head and owner, brought to advertising the same dynamism and creativity that John H. Patterson infused into the world of scientific selling. Benton's dissatisfaction with the agency mounted rapidly, however, as his requests to learn copywriting were repeatedly denied. After a brief period of discontent he moved to the George Batten Company, staying there until fired as a result of policy disagreements a tumultuous five years later. Before returning to Lord and Thomas he married Helen Hemingway, a teacher he had met while at Yale. Their first child, Charles William, was born three years later. Several years later the Bentons adopted two baby girls, Louise Hemingway and Helen Orr, and in 1942 another child, John.
In 1929 Benton resigned as assistant general manager and partner at Lord and Thomas, and with former assistant Chester Bowles, from whom he borrowed $5,000 for the purpose, started the Benton and Bowles agency. Despite the Great Depression, Benton and Bowles quickly became the sixth largest single-office advertising firm in the United States. The Depression itself fostered the agency's success, for it encouraged the re-examination of advertising policies and outmoded techniques, facilitating the rise of a new wave of creative executives. The fledgling agency also benefited from Benton's introduction into New York of the consumer research surveys he had devised at Lord and Thomas in Chicago. These surveys gave clients more systematically compiled data for marketing decisions, particularly appealing at a time when consumer purchasing power was drastically reduced. In addition, while other top agencies still were depending almost totally on newspapers and national magazines, Benton and Bowles pioneered in radio advertising. Two shows were especially important;" Amos 'n Andy," which Benton bought for Pepsodent while still at Lord and Thomas; and the "Maxwell House Show Boat." Among the innovations on the latter were the use of the live studio audience, cue signs for laughter and applause, and commercials with sound effects.
The partners had agreed verbally from the outset that Benton would be free to leave with fair compensation when he chose, and in 1935 Benton began making arrangements to quit advertising. Newspapers seized the rags-to-riches story: Yale scholarship student reaches goal of earning a million dollars before his thirtieth birthday-and during the Depression. It is true that the eventual value of his stock made him a millionaire; but because his return was pegged to the firm's well-being, only if the agency continued to prosper would his total assets mount. Benton, in fact, was destined for some financially rocky periods before his wealth was assured.
When Benton announced his retirement from advertising, President Robert M. Hutchins, his former Yale debating partner, invited him to undertake public relations and fund-raising work for the University of Chicago. After Benton turned down the offer, Hutchins countered by proposing a shorter-term project; surveying University programs and suggesting improvements. As further inducement he stressed opportunities for directing and expanding the University's commitment to radio broadcasting and educational films, both areas which had already whetted Benton's interest.
Overcoming his initial hesitation, Benton agreed to spend two to three months assessing the situation and producing a "consumer research" survey for the institution. It was unprecedented for a university to adopt such techniques to measure its "acceptance" or "sales resistance." Indispensable assistance came from John Howe, then part of the University's public relations office and Benton's right-hand man for the ensuing three decades.
The University's public relations in the mid-thirties were in a poor state. Though it was outside the purview of his assignment, Benton managed to solve two of the institution's most vexing problems. The University was perceived as a nest of subversion, a situation which had been exacerbated by the publicity surrounding Charles Walgreen's withdrawal of his daughter from classes. Benton could uncover no factual basis for these accusations, so he got permission from Hutchins to approach the drugstore magnate personally. Their meeting laid the groundwork both for the resolution of the immediate problem and for Walgreen's underwriting of the University's Charles R. Walgreen Foundation for the Study of American Institutions. Benton was equally successful in neutralizing the chronic hostility shown the University by Chicago by newspapers, especially Colonel Robert McCormick's Chicago Tribune.
Late in 1936 Benton completed The University of Chicago's Public Relations, his analysis of the University's image problems and recommendations for improvement. Pinpointing Hutchins's role in public relations as crucial, he also underlined essential contributions to be made by faculty, students, trustees, and alumni. In line with his own interests and vision, he also emphasized the largely untapped capacity of radio and film to promote the University. Fifty confidential copies of the controversial report were printed for circulation to the trustees, and the University's public relations now so intrigued Benton that he agreed to assume a half-time position as vice-president.
He lost no time in implementing the ideas he had outlined in his report. In addition to producing and commissioning scores of promotional articles and pamphlets about the University, Benton lectured widely and urged others in the academic community to do the same. Much of this work was aimed at the Chicago business community, a group whose ties to the University the new vice president sought to strengthen and expand. Benton's greatest interest, however, was in radio and film. He put "The University of Chicago Round Table" on a permanent footing, arranging a grant from the Alfred Sloan Foundation for that purpose. Begun modestly in 1931 as an occasional seminar on current economic, political, and social issues, by the fall of 1936 the "Round Table" had a national following. Under Benton's tutelage it was for twenty years the most popular radio discussion program in the United States, drawing many of its participants from the University faculty. Benton further heightened the University's national visibility when he inaugurated another radio series, "The Human Adventure," which linked faculty research to dramatic advances in human knowledge.
Prospects for developing educational films were more complex. In 1932 the University had entered into a five-year contract with an AT&T subsidiary, Electrical Research Products, Inc. (ERPI), under which ERPI provided the financial and technical resources for film-making while the University supplied its faculty and endorsement. In 1936 Benton learned of the conglomerate's desire to sell ERPI and to abandon the educational film business. Despite the trustees' interest and Benton's strong encouragement, the University chose not to acquire ERPI. Benton's faith in the potential of the educational film business remained undiluted, and he was to have another chance to purchase ERPI only five years later.
During his years of service to the University, Benton continued to look for personal investment opportunities. In 1939 he bought Muzak, an ailing and obscure company which sent music into restaurants and hotels over leased telephone lines. The company's managers conceived of Muzak as a substitute for live orchestra and band music, but Benton revolutionized the business by envisioning it primarily as background music. Within a few years he had turned Muzak into a thriving concern, but he was stymied in his simultaneous efforts to introduce subscription radio, a scheme in which special FM channels would be made available to citizens on a subscription basis. By the late 1940s Benton was devoting his energies primarily to other concerns, though he retained ownership of the company until 1958.
Benton's association with the University led directly to another and even more profitable investment. Sears, Roebuck and Company had acquired Encyclopaedia Britannica after having been involved in its management during World War I, but the corporation was increasingly anxious to get rid of it. Benton knew General Robert E. Wood, chairman of Sears, from working closely with him on the America First Committee, and he suggested to Wood that Sears give the Britannica company to the University of Chicago as an endowment. The General agreed, but the University trustees balked at accepting the gift, worried about the lack of working capital and the appropriateness of a university's operating an essentially nonacademic book business. After months of negotiating, Hutchins, Benton, and Wood reached a compromise whereby Benton would supply $100,000 of working capital and assume risks of ownership and operation.
In early 1943 Benton thus became the owner, publisher, and chairman of the board of Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc., and at the insistence of the University trustees he took two-thirds of the common stock. The University retained the option to buy one-half of his stock without interest, which would have given it two-thirds and control; when the time came to take up the option, the trustees were unwilling to tamper with a such a lucrative business arrangement. Benton eventually retired the University's holdings, but the institution continued to receive substantial royalty payments.
Shortly after assuming control of Britannica, Benton learned that ERPI was still available. To him it seemed natural for Encyclopaedia Britannica to acquire an educational film company, but it was a business gamble since all Benton's predecessors in that field had failed. The newborn Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Inc., however, soon occupied an unexpectedly strong position in the field. Not only did its principal competitor, Eastman Kodak, withdraw from the business, but it donated its library of silent films to Encyclopaedia Britannica and the University of Chicago.
Another of Benton's projects grew out of his relationship with the University and Britannica. During his vice-presidential years, Benton became involved in Robert Hutchins's Great Books program, and in his enthusiasm he resolved to publish the works as a set. His Britannica associates were skeptical, reminding him of the ready availability of standard editions. Discounting their fears, he subsidized Mortimer Adler and an ever larger group of subeditors to compile the Syntopicon, a thesaurus of ideas within the Great Books of the Western World. Costs skyrocketed and deadlines were postponed again and again, but Benton's belief in the project never wavered. The 54-volume series finally appeared in 1952, its enormous commercial success vindicating Benton's judgment. In 1961 Britannica began publication of The Great Ideas Today, an annual supplement to the Great Books; two years later a companion set, the ten-volume Gateway to the Great Books, was published.
During his years at Chicago Benton also embarked on his career as a public servant. In 1939, as advisor to Nelson Rockefeller, then Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, he became engaged in the early U. S. ventures in international cultural exchanges. Three years later he was a founding member of the Committee for Economic Development, an organization of top businessmen devoted to planning postwar employment and production. In 1945 Benton severed his administrative connection with the University of Chicago to become Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs. His responsibilities included consolidating the wartime information agencies within the State Department and launching the first major U. S. programs for peacetime international information and educational exchanges. Benton was ideally suited to these tasks, but he knew that success would depend on his ability to educate Congress and the American public.
Under his direction the State Department began the Voice of America broadcasts, established the United States information offices, and promoted international visits of professors and students. Benton also led U. S. participation in organizing UNESCO, which he later served as representative under the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. He was busy on the legislative front as well, guiding through Congress the Foreign Service Act of 1946 and the Fulbright Act for international educational exchange programs.
Benton resigned from the State Department in 1947 and planned to give his attention to Britannica affairs. Soon thereafter, however, because of his international experience and his years of work with the Commission on the Freedom of the Press, the State Department asked him to lead the American delegation to the 1948 United Nations Conference on Freedom of Press and Information. Until his death twenty-five years later Benton continued his work with American delegations to numerous international conferences.
Late in 1949 a new path of service opened up to Benton when his old business partner, Chester Bowles, then governor of Connecticut, appointed him to fill a vacant U. S. Senate seat. The next year Benton ran to win the two years remaining in the term. His energetic and creative promotional skills once again found an appropriate arena; he introduced the helicopter into political campaigning and used radio and television extensively. The new techniques were effective; Benton was elected, while Bowles and the rest of the state ticket were defeated.
In the Senate Benton joined other liberal Democrats in supporting Truman's Fair Deal. He became a member of the Banking and Currency Committee, the Rules Committee, the Select Committee on Small Business, and the Joint Committee on the Economic Report. Benton introduced and saw enacted a Mutual Security Act amendment stipulating that the act's administrators when purchasing foreign-made materials give preference to factories with noncommunist leadership. He was especially disappointed to have failed with his "Marshall Plan of Ideas," a six-part program designed to combat communism and promote freedom of information.
Benton's voting record supported civil rights and other liberal policies, with a single exception which was to be a lasting source of regret to him. He had been steadfast in his opposition to the Internal Security Act (also known as the McCarran Immigration Act) on the grounds that it was pointedly restrictive of eastern and southern Europeans. Political considerations within the Senate convinced him to swallow his objections and to cast his vote with the overwhelming majority in its favor. It was vetoed immediately by Truman, only to be overridden by Congress. In early 1952 Benton returned to his original stance, joining Senators Lehman and Humphrey in opposing a more extreme version; however, this bill too was enacted over presidential veto. Benton continued to work on immigration after leaving the Senate, primarily by helping organize and finance the National Committee on Immigration and Citizenship. The committee's efforts were rewarded by the 1965 adoption of an immigration policy it deemed liberal and humane.
Benton is seldom remembered for his most significant action in the Senate: challenging the nationwide communist paranoia fuelled by Senator Joseph McCarthy. Particularly incensed by charges that the State Department had been infiltrated by disloyal, card-carrying communists, soon after winning election Benton began a careful investigation into McCarthy's own activities. By the late summer of 1951 he had collected enough evidence to introduce a strong resolution demanding McCarthy's expulsion from the Senate. Amidst an atmosphere of intimidation and mistrust, Benton was subjected to attack from all sides. Support for his position slowly grew, particularly after McCarthy's decision in the late spring of 1952 to sue Benton for libel.
Many Connecticut Democrats regarded Benton's attack on McCarthy as a grave political mistake. McCarthy retaliated by campaigning against Benton in his home state, but polls suggested Benton was benefited as much as he was hurt by his fight against McCarthy. After his loss in the Eisenhower landslide of 1952, Benton continued his battle against McCarthy from outside the Senate. It was not until three years later that the Senate finally voted to censure McCarthy.
Benton's defeat marked the end of his service in elected positions, but he remained active in state and national Democratic politics. His concern about campaign methods led him to become a director of the Fair Campaign Practices Committee; he also worked vigorously on behalf of his close friends Adlai Stevenson and Hubert Humphrey, and he served on the Platform Committee for the Democratic National Conventions in 1952, 1956, and 1964.
In the final three decades of his life, Benton concentrated on Britannica's affairs together with various educational and public projects. The two were often intertwined, as was the case with his frequent trips abroad to study developments in education and communications. Benton's lifelong fascination with the Soviet Union and Latin America was deepened by an acute consciousness of the American public's ignorance on these topics. Determined to educate as large an audience as possible, Benton published widely about his tours abroad and mailed reprints regularly to scores of political and business leaders.
Benton was particularly intrigued with the Soviet educational system. "The Voice of the Kremlin," which first appeared as a feature in the 1956 Britannica -Britannica Book of the Year, was a comprehensive analysis based on his 1955 trip to the U.S.S.R. It was reissued two years later as This Is the Challenge. The 1965 Britannica Book of the Year contained "The Teachers and the Taught in the U.S.S.R.," which Benton wrote after his fifth trip. The same title was used when the essay was published as a book the following year. A similar tour of Latin America with Adlai Stevenson resulted in "The Voice of Latin America," which appeared in book form soon after being printed in the 1961 Britannica Book of the Year.
Under Benton's aggressive leadership, Britannica expanded its foreign and domestic operations. In 1957 the Spanish-language Enciclopedia Barsa was published, to be joined seven years later by a Portuguese translation. Benton also embarked on ambitious plans for Britannica's British subsidiary, focusing on strengthening management and production and more closely integrating its activities with those of its American parent.
On the domestic front Benton engineered the 1961 acquisition of Compton's Pictured Encyclopedia. Aimed at the secondary school level, Compton's complemented the Britannica Junior Encyclopedia, a reference set in print since 1934. In 1964 Britannica bought the G. and C. Merriam Company, a leading producer of English-language dictionaries and best known for its Merriam-Webster series. Two years later the company purchased Frederick A. Praeger, Inc., a firm distinguished for its international publications and resources.
Also in 1966 Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Inc. was reorganized and renamed. The new Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corporation (EBEC) was designed to meet rapidly changing needs in the development, production, and marketing of educational films, instructional materials, and reference books. Other modifications in corporate structure followed. William Benton's son Charles resigned the presidency of EBEC to form an independent, non-profit company, the Fund for Media Research. He next assumed sole ownership of Films, Inc., an EBEC subsidiary which distributed 16-millimeter versions of entertainment motion pictures produced by major Hollywood studios.
All of Benton's Britannica stock went in 1958 to establish the Benton Foundation, a vehicle for funding worthwhile projects in communications and education, the areas which he had always consumed his attention. During Benton's lifetime the Foundation supported a broad range of endeavors, including several enterprises in which Benton himself was actively involved. For instance, the Foundation aided a number of policy research organizations with which Benton was closely associated: the American Assembly at Columbia University, the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies, and the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. Political causes in which Benton believed also received Foundation assistance. These included the Committee for a National Trade Policy, the Commission on the Frame of Government, the American Foreign Service Association, and the Adlai Stevenson Memorial. The Foundation also helped underwrite numerous cultural projects. Most prominent among these was the American Shakespeare Theatre and Festival, to which Benton gave a great deal of time as trustee and patron. Others were the Wadsworth Athenaeum, the Noah Webster House Foundation, the Committee for the Preservation of the White House, and the Kennedy Library Corporation.
Benton earmarked a significant portion of the Foundation's resources for educational endeavors. The Foundation contributed to ongoing seminar and lecture programs such as the Cleveland Conference, the Yale Conference, and the Institute of International Education, while also giving substantial aid to institutions which Benton served as trustee; the University of Chicago, University of Connecticut, University of Bridgeport, Brandeis University, Hampton Institute, and Carleton College.
Benton received many accolades during his lifetime, including eight honorary degrees. Because of the University of Chicago policy restricting the awarding of honorary degrees to scholars, Benton's contributions were seldom publicly recognized by the University until it conferred on him the first William Benton Medal for Distinguished Service in 1968.
Honors continued to accumulate. In 1972 the University of Connecticut renamed its art museum in Benton's honor. Long a benefactor of the school, Benton also prided himself on his valuable private collection of American paintings from the first half of the twentieth century. Works by Yale friend Reginald Marsh, whom Benton largely supported during the Depression, formed the richest part of his collection, but he also boasted numerous works by Ivan Albright, Jack Levine, Bellows Hassam, and Kuniyoshi.
Benton died on March 18, 1973. He was survived by his widow, Helen Hemingway Benton, and their four children, Charles Benton, Louise Benton Wagner, Helen Benton Boley, and John Benton.
Before Lyman Flook’s appointment as Superintendent of Construction in 1927, building activities at the University were directed and supervised by the Board of Trustees’ Committee on Buildings and Grounds and the University Business Manager. The Trustees’ Committee was among the first standing committees appointed by the President of the Board. Composed of the President of the University, the President and Secretary of the Board, and five Trustees, it held its first meeting in October, 1890. It was authorized to select the architect, designate the first sites and buildings, review specifications, consider bids, and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees. The Committee met regularly until the end of 1893, after which its work was assumed by the newly created Executive Committee of the Board; it was reinstated in 1898 and continued its work until 1932, when it was superseded by the Trustees’ Committee on Business Affairs.
In 1900, the University Council established a five-member Buildings and Grounds Committee drawn from the faculty and charged with advising the Trustees’ Committee on Buildings and Grounds. President Harper named Ernest D. Burton chairman of the group and expressed the hope that “steps be taken in the various departments concerned to formulate as accurately as possible the plans of buildings in which they are generally interested.” The faculty committee, however, was soon replaced by individual departmental committees selected as the need arose.
The Business Manager, an officer of the Board of Trustees and after 1923, a Vice-President of the University, was responsible for all expenditures on buildings and grounds. He prepared lists of University needs and estimated costs of physical improvements, and presented them to the Trustees’ Committee for discussion and approval. When funds had already been authorized, and only questions of design were involved, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds assumed full responsibility. If new expenditures were required, however, the Business Manager presented the Committee’s recommendations to the full Board of Trustees for discussion a ratification. Once building proposals were approved, the Business Manager secured the necessary contracts, supervised construction, and paid all bills.
The Department of Buildings and Grounds evolved gradually during these years. Although maintenance was originally handled by an Engineer, the growth in size and duties of the maintenance staff during the University’s first decade made the need for an efficient Superintendent apparent. M. H. Maclean was appointed the first Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds in 1903 and served until 1910. He was succeeded by Clyde Douglas (1910-1915) and H. W. Rouse (1916-1919). In 1919, Lyman Russell Flook, an engineer and former Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds at the University of Michigan, was named to the post. Although the administration of the physical plant had always been handled by the Business Office, it was not until 1916 that Buildings and Grounds was considered a separate Department in the auditor’s accounts.
In 1924, the University began a significant program of physical expansion financed in part by individual benefactors and in part by the remainder of John D. Rockefeller’s $10-million final gift in 1910. As planning proceeded, it became apparent that the variety of problems to be solved and decisions to be made was not only beyond the capacity of the Trustees’ Committee on Buildings and Grounds, but would also put a severe strain on the Business Office. In an August, 1924, letter to Business Manager Trevor Arnett, Flook argued that the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds could provide important assistance in the management of the new building program. “It is simply a question,” he said, “as to how far the Building Committee wishes to detail their responsibility to *** some other person. . . . Whoever the person designated, he should be familiar with the needs of the Academic Department occupying the Building, with the drawings and specifications. . . . He should be on the alert to foresee simplifications of plan, defects of planning, improvements of design and detail. . . . He should, for the Owner, inform himself as to the scheduling of the major materials and sub-contractor’s work, to be sure that the date of completion will be achieved. Such operations should clear through the channels having contractual relations with the Architect - the Owner’s usual contact - the Business Manager” (4:1).
In October, 1927, Flook’s proposal for an expanded role was largely realized by his appointment as Superintendent of Construction, a new post giving him direct supervision of the planning and erection of all campus buildings. Architects and engineer undertaking work were instructed to address their correspondence directly to Flook’s office, where Flook would annotate carbon copies and forward them to the Vice-President and Business Manager. As part of this reorganization, Emery Jackson, an employee of the firm of Coolidge and Hodgdon, was appointed University Architect, and Lester Ries became Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds in charge of operations and maintenance.
For each building constructed during the expansion period, Flook consulted on the design with Jackson, the architects, faculty members, and a Faculty Committee on Symbolism appointed by the President to suggest subjects for ornamentation and approve models. Drawing on Flook’s reports, the Business Manager then made recommendations to the Trustees’ Committee on Buildings and Grounds. Ultimate decisions on the selection of architects and contractors, building plans, costs, materials used, equipment, furnishings, decoration, and inscriptions were made by the Trustees’ Committee with the ratification of the full Board of Trustees. Exceptions to this practice were buildings for such institutions as Chicago Lying-In Hospital and Hicks-McElwee Orthopedics Hospital that had come to the University with their own board of trustees.
Lyman Flook remained Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds until his retirement in 1953. The Department of Buildings and Grounds w discontinued in the 1960’s when construction was taken over by the Office of Physical Planning (established in 1967) and maintenance was absorbed by the Plant Department (established in 1969).
Twenty new buildings were constructed on the University campus during the expansion program of 1926-1931. The entire Midway facade was filled in, ranging from International House at the east to the hospital complex on the west, with Rockefeller Chapel, the Social Science Research Building, and Wieboldt Hall in between. The Oriental Institute was built northwest of Rockefeller Chapel as part of a planned but never fully realized Chapel Block. Two new buildings, Judd Hall and Sunny Gymnasium, were added to the School of Education. The inner quadrangles acquired Eckhart Hall and Jones Laboratory, as well as the Theology Group composed of Swift Hall, Bond Chapel, and the Cloister. To the north, a new Botany Laboratory, twelve greenhouses, and an animal research facility were constructed. Stagg Field was remodeled, and the Field House was added to campus recreational facilities. Construction south of the Midway included the Burton-Judson men’s residences and the Blackstone Avenue Power Plant.
The whole campus was dug up, not only in preparation for the new buildings, but also to permit the laying of an intricate network of tunnels emanating from the Power Plant that would bring heat and electricity to every building on the campus. Along with this construction, older buildings were remodeled, including the President’s House, several dormitories, and a group of stores on 61st Street redesigned in the Tudor style to serve students living south of the Midway. Cottages, barns, apartment buildings, and the old Del Prado Hotel were demolished to make room for new buildings. The old Quadrangle Club, converted for use by the School of Commerce, was moved to 58th Street and renamed Ingleside Hall. Professor William Gardner Hale’s house was rolled down University Avenue and relocated south of the new Quadrangle Club to provide a graduate club house and make room for Chicago Theological Seminary to construct its complex on the northeast corner of 58th Street.
The number or architects involved in this expansion program distinguished it from the two earlier phases of University construction. During the first period (1892-1900), Henry Ives Cobb had dominated design as the University’s chief architect. In the second phase (1901-1916), most of the work was done by Shepley, Rutan and Coolidge. In the third phase (1926-1931), Charles Coolidge continued as a campus architect through a new partnership with Charles Hodgdon, for many veers the firm’s Chicago representative. Other architectural firms participating in the expansion were Goodhue Associates (later Mayers, Murray, and Phillip); Holabird and Roche (later Holabird and Root); Charles z. Klauder; Armstrong, Furst, and Tilton; Zantzinger, Borie, and Medarie; Perkins, Chatten, and Hammond; and Schmidt, Garden, and Erickson.
This was also the final period of reliance on neo-Gothic styles in the University’s architecture. While a complete break with eclecticism would not be made until the construction of the Administration Building in 1948, the technological and financial strains of designing Gothic hospitals, laboratories, or gymnasia were increasingly apparent. Later University buildings would adapt to rather than adopt the Gothic mode.
With the exception of the Charles E. Merriam Center for Public Administration (Public Administration Clearing House), completed in 1937, no new buildings were erected on the University campus between 1932 and 1948. After World War II new buildings were needed to accommodate the radical developments in the physical sciences, house the University’s administrative staff, furnish residences for faculty and students, enlarge University High School, and provide additional facilities for the professional schools. Additions to the hospitals were accompanied by long over-due reconstruction and updating of old facilities. A building program was devised for the south side of the Midway Plaisance that drew in affiliated organizations working with the University on problems of research and education. These included, in addition to the Public Administration Clearing House, the American Bar Center, the Center for Continuing Education, now the Graduate Student Residence, and the Industrial Relations Center (Charles Stewart Mott Building).
After 1948 major changes took place in the University’s architectural style, its methods of financing new buildings, and the ways in which the building program was planned and administered.
Three important factors influenced the University’s architectural style: 1) the decision to abandon neo-Gothic in favor of a more contemporary approach; 2) the determination to preserve campus unity so far as possible by continuing to build in limestone, maintain where appropriate the quadrangular plan, and encourage the architects to integrate the new buildings with the old; and 3) a policy of employing renowned contemporary architects to design individual buildings, rather than giving, as in the past, almost total responsibility for the entire campus to one firm (see guide to Department of Buildings and Grounds Records, Sub-Series 1). Among the firms given commissions were Holabird, Root and Burgee; Eero Saarinen and Associates; Edward Durrell Stone; Ludwig Mies van der Rohe; Perkins and Will; and Harry Weese and Associates. Schmidt, Garden and Erikson, who had designed Chicago Lying-In Hospital in 1931, were architects for the alterations to the old hospitals, the new hospital units, and the Research Institutes.
Whereas before World War II University buildings were financed chiefly by the beneficence of individual donors And/or the Rockefellers, the post-War period saw an enormous growth in government, foundation, and corporate funding. For example, the Argonne Cancer Research Hospital (now the Franklin McLean Memorial Research Institute) was constructed under the supervision of and with funds from the Atomic Energy Commission; the Research Institutes were financed by the Atomic Energy Commission, the Office of Naval Research, and more than twenty leading corporations; the Center for Continuing Education was given by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation; and the re-modelling of the first women’s dormitories for use by the Department of Psychology was made possible by a grant from the National Science Foundation.
The administrative mechanisms for planning and supervising the building program were also changed. The Trustees’ Committee on Buildings and Grounds had been terminated in 1932, and its work was assumed by the Committee on Business Affairs. In 1949 the functions of the Committee on Business Affairs were taken over by the Budget Committee and any ad hoc committees it might see fit to appoint. Among these ad hoc committees were the Area Committee, formed in 1949 to address the problems posed by the deterioration in the surrounding neighborhoods, and the Committee on Campus Development. The latter was succeeded in 1958 by the Trustees’ Committee on Campus Planning. Thus there evolved two different but interacting and cooperating Trustees’ committees, one concerned with the building program and the neighborhood, the other with the campus.
Guidance and surveillance of architects for campus buildings had earlier been the responsibility of the Trustees’ Committee on Building and Grounds, working in cooperation with the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds. In 1929, in response to the pressure engendered by President Burton’s building program, the office of Consulting Architect was created, and Emery Jackson, who had been with Shepley, Rutan and Coolidge and done much of the designing for Ida Noyes Hall, was selected to fill the post. Both Jackson and the Department of Buildings and Grounds had offices in Ingleside Hall. Jackson was succeeded in 1948 by J. Lee Jones, who held the office until he retired in 1964 to be replaced by I. W. Colburn. Jones’s office was in Rosenwald until 1963 when the Office of University Architect was created and located in the Young Building (Chicago Home for Incurables).
A further architectural appointment was made in the mid-fifties. Uneasiness about the conditions of the neighborhoods to the north and south of the University, combined with a sense of the magnitude of the building program, contributed to the Trustees’ determination to select an outside architect to prepare a long-range plan. Consulting Architect J. Lee Jones prepared a list of potential candidates from which the Trustees might choose. Eero Saarinen, who had had extensive experience in campus planning, and was highly recommended by Trustee Walter Paepcke, for whom he had worked in Aspen, was selected to develop a master plan for the University.
Saarinen paid his first visit to the University in 1954. In 1955 he presented a master plan at a joint meeting of the Trustees’ Area Committee and the Committee on Campus Development. He was subsequently engaged as a consulting architect to pass on the appropriateness of the work of other architects designing for the University. His firm also designed two University complexes, the Law School Quadrangle and Woodward Court and Commons. In 1958 Saarinen’s preliminary plan was revised and presented to the newly constituted Trustees’ Committee on Campus Planning. Saarinen’s untimely death in 1961 terminated this particular phase of campus planning, but the program for this period was climaxed in 1964 by the successful application to the Ford Foundation for a $25 million challenge grant for extensive additions to the physical facilities and the announcement in 1965 of the opening of the Campaign for Chicago.
In 1969 the Office of University Architect and a new office of campus planning were combined into the joint Department of Physical Planning and Construction. Problems of maintenance and management were delegated to the newly established Plant Department.
Martin Hayes Bickham was born on October 7, 1880 in Churchtown, Pennsylvania. He received his A.B. from the University of Pennsylvania in 1908. He was a student in the Sociology Department at the University of Chicago from 1912-1922 and received his A.M. in 1919 and his Ph.D. in 1922. His A.M. thesis was titled “The Relations of Sociology and Religion from 1865 to 1915.” His Ph.D. thesis, under the direction of Albion Small, was titled “The Scientific Antecedents of the Sociology of Auguste Comte.”
Prior to commencing his academic work at the University of Chicago, Bickham was appointed as secretary of the University of Chicago Christian Association in 1911. During World War I, he served with the Y.M.C.A in Paris. He was also an assistant coach for Amos Alonzo Stagg at the University of Chicago for several years beginning in 1911.
Following his graduation with a Ph.D. in sociology in 1922, Bickham went on to become a practicing sociologist, conducting studies in such subjects as racism, poverty, and social life on American college campuses. He became an influential figure in urban social affairs, especially matters relating to equal opportunity, open housing and civil liberties in the Chicago area.
Martin Hayes Bickham died in Evanston, IL in 1976.
Jean Friedberg Block, a lifelong Hyde Park resident, was born in 1912. She received a master’s degree from the University of Chicago in 1963 and was awarded the Alumni Association Public Service Citation in 1981. A founding member of the Hyde Park Historical Society, Block also served on the boards of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, the Chicago Architecture Foundation and International House.
Block was a renowned expert on the architecture of the University and its surrounding neighborhood. Her 1978 book, Hyde Park Houses: An Informal History, 1856-1910, describes the neighborhood’s sociological and architectural transformation from bucolic suburb to urban neighborhood through photographs and text. Block next turned her attention to the aesthetics of the university itself. In 1983, the University of Chicago published her second book, Writing in The Uses of Gothic: Planning and Building the Campus of the University of Chicago 1892–1932. Block was a lead author and coordinator of The Uses of Gothic, a 1985 exhibit in the Special Collections Research Center. At the time of her death, Mrs. Block was writing a history of apartment houses and their effect on Chicago neighborhoods from 1910 to 1950.
Block died in 1988 at the age of 76. She was survived by two children and five grandchildren. The sunken viewing garden directly north of the Joseph Regenstein Library was named the Jean F. Block Memorial Garden after her death.
This collection includes materials relating to Leonard Bloomfield and Clarence L. Barnhart’s linguistic program to teach children to read. Leonard Bloomfield was an accomplished American linguist who taught at the University of Chicago for many years. Clarence L. Barnhart was a lexicographer who studied at the University of Chicago under Bloomfield’s direction. In a meeting between the two men, Barnhart remarked that he was going to begin teaching his son to read. Bloomfield responded with an outline of a program detailing the way he thought children should be taught to read. While the program was unsuccessful for Barnhart’s son, the two men began working together and further developing the reading program, Let’s Read – a Linguistic Approach.
Bloomfield and Barnhart’s program attempts to develop the “alphabetic habit”. By placing similar sounding words together throughout the books, the reader is introduced to patterns within vocabulary. Let’s Read was published in 1961, after the death of Bloomfield in 1949. The work is composed of Bloomfield’s original ideas and illustrations. After Bloomfield’s death, Barnhart continued to work on the program along with the help of his sons. Following its original publication, other members of the Barnhart family continued to work on the program, resulting in a revised edition in 1993 and a second edition in 2010.
Robert Calhoun Boggs was born in Fayette County, Kentucky on August 8, 1793, the son of Robert Boggs and Sarah McCreary Huston. He lived and worked as a farmer in Fayette County throughout his life. He died on August 18, 1863.
James Huston Boggs, the brother of Robert C. Boggs, was born in Fayette County, Kentucky on September 13, 1796. He married Sophia Hart in 1829 and they had one son, Robert Boggs. He died on December 2, 1831 in Boonesborough, Kentucky.
Amy Bonner (1891-1955) was a New York journalist who reviewed books of verse for the World-Telegram; she was also on the staff of the New York Evening Post. She wrote poetry which appeared in Poetry: A Magazine of Verse several times, first in 1921. From 1937-1947 she served as Poetry’s eastern business representative.
Daniel, Seth and James Bonney served in Massachusetts regiments during the Civil War. Seth Bonney, who was with the 26th Massachusetts Volunteers, wrote from Ship Island, Mississippi, Savannah, New Orleans, and from Virginia, Nebraska, and Pennsylvania. Daniel Bonney, with the 15th Massachusetts Volunteers, served in Maryland and Virginia, where he was wounded; several of his letters were written from Army hospitals in Washington, D.C., and Baltimore. James Bonney, also with the 15th Massachusetts Regiment, was captured in 1861, and spent some time in a prison camp at Richmond, Virginia. After an exchange of prisoners, he spent two years in the Commissary Department of a parole camp at Annapolis. Finally he returned to his regiment in April, 1864, and soon afterwards was reported wounded or killed.
In 1894, University of Chicago President William Rainey Harper appointed John Merle Coulter (1851-1928) to lead the newly established Department of Botany. Coulter was a leading American botanist and a friend of Asa Gray (1810-1888), the famed Harvard botanist whose Manual of Botany and other texts dominated plant science in the United States. Coulter had founded the Botanical Gazette nearly twenty years earlier, and he brought the editorship of the professional journal with him to his new position. In 1896, botanical research at the University of Chicago was further enhanced with the erection of the Hull Biological Laboratories. This complex of four buildings included the Botany Building, which housed classrooms, labs, and a rooftop greenhouse, and Botany Pond, an adjacent outdoor plant study facility.
The University of Chicago's Department of Botany quickly grew to become one of modern botany's most influential centers of research and teaching. By the 1930s, the roster of notable researchers serving on the Botany faculty included Henry C. Cowles and George D. Fuller in ecology, Charles J. Chamberlain in plant morphology, Merle C. Coulter in plant genetics, Adolf C. Noe in paleobotany, and Charles Barnes, William Crocker, and Charles A. Shull in plant physiology. The Botanical Gazette, published under the direction of an editorial board drawn from the department's faculty, was American botany's leading journal, and national university evaluations such as the Hughes Report of 1925 ranked the Department of Botany first among its academic peers.
None of the Department of Botany's achievements loomed larger than the new field of plant ecology developed by Henry Chandler Cowles (1869-1939). Cowles was a graduate student of John M. Coulter, a member of the Botany faculty from 1897 onward, and chairman of the department from 1925 until his retirement in 1934.
Cowles's formulation of ecology was first expressed in his Ph.D. thesis, "The Ecological Relations of the Vegetation on the Sand Dunes of Lake Michigan" (1898). Cowles based his thesis on detailed field work he had undertaken in the Indiana Dunes, a wild, unsettled region of beaches, sand dunes, bogs, and woods along the southern shore of Lake Michigan about twenty-five miles from the University of Chicago. Cowles argued that the natural succession of plant forms in time could be traced in physical space as one moved inland from the open lake beach across ancient shorelines through the shifting dunes to the interior forest.
Henry C. Cowles and his theories and methods attracted many students to the Department of Botany, and these students in turn secured positions at other universities and research institutions. One study of scientific influences by Douglas Sprugel in 1980 concluded that of the seventy-seven recognized American scientists dominant in the field of ecology from 1900 to the early 1950s, no fewer than forty-six were students of Cowles or were directly influenced by professional mentors who had been students of Cowles.
The Chicago school of ecology is generally regarded as one of the most influential forces in the development of ecological studies. While Cowles's theories of ecological community and plant succession have been modified and extended by more recent generations of scientists, they continue to be considered among the most significant departures in the modern understanding of the natural environment.
In 1967, the Biological Sciences Division's proposal for a merger of the Departments of Botany and Zoology was approved. The merger, which formed the Department of Biology, responded to the need for flexibility in the use of resources and funding, as well as broader trends in research and teaching in the biological sciences.
Mary Jean Bowman was born in New York City in 1908 and raised in Newton Center, Massachusetts. She received a B.A. in economics from Vassar College in 1930, an M.A. in economics from Radcliffe College in 1932, and a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University in 1938. During the 1930s Bowman did casework and research at the Massachusetts Women’s State Prison and began teaching at Iowa State College. In 1943 Bowman, along with her husband C. Arnold Anderson, Theodore Schultz. D. Gale Johnson and others left Iowa State during the “oleomargarine controversy.” (During World War II, Iowa State College faculty published a pamphlet recommending the use of oleomargarine during wartime. Under pressure from the state dairy industry, the college president urged the faculty to revise the pamphlet.) Bowman then worked as a price economist for the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics and as a visiting lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley before moving to Chicago with her husband in 1949. Because C. Arnold Anderson was a faculty member in the Education department at the University of Chicago, Bowman was not awarded a faculty appointment in the Economics department until 1958 after the University relaxed nepotism rules. She did, however, teach as an Associate Professor in the Economics department prior to 1958. In 1969 she was awarded a joint appointment in the Economics and Education departments.
Bowman was best known for applying human capital theory to the study of education. She published six books and more than seventy five articles over the course of her career. With George Leland Bach, she co-authored the textbook Economic Analysis and Public Policy, which was the most widely used college economics textbook in the 1940s and 1950s. She published influential research on income distribution in the 1950s and produced a major study of the economics of poverty-stricken Eastern Kentucky in the 1960s. She also researched internationally, and published books on the Ivory Coast and Japan as well as numerous articles on economics and education in developing countries. She collaborated with her husband (who directed the University’s Comparative Education Center) to publish work on economics and education based on both domestic and international research.
Mary Jean Bowman died in Chicago in 2002 at age 93.
Amory Howe Bradford was born in 1846. Bradford was the pastor of the First Congregational Church of Montclair, New Jersey. In 1897, Bradford delivered the convocation speech at the University of Chicago's Twentieth Convocation, held on October 1 at the University of Chicago Congregational Church. The speech was titled "The Unity of the World."
Bradford is mentioned as a key evangelical neoabolitionist spokesman, along with others including Washington Gladden, Charles Cuthbert Hall (president of Union Theological Seminary), and Henry Churchill King. They were all leaders of the American Missionary Association and appealed to "theological personalism" for values in race relations.
Bradford is the author of The Pilgrim in New England: A Review of History, Present Condition, and Outlook of the Independent Churches in England (1893), The Question of Unity; Many Voices Concerning the Unification of Christendom (1894), Heredity and Christian Problems (1895), and The Growing Revelation (1897).
Amory Howe Bradford died in 1911.
Jerald Brauer was born in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin in 1921 to Carl L. and Anna Mae (Linde) Brauer. He attended Carthage College in Carthage, Illinois, went on to receive a B.D. from Northwestern Lutheran Theological Seminary in 1945. Brauer pursued advanced training at Union Theological Seminary in New York and earned a PhD from the University of Chicago in 1948. In 1945 Brauer married Muriel (Nelson) Brauer. The couple had two children Christopher Nelson and Marian Ruth. Brauer became an ordained minister in the United Lutheran Church of America in 1951.
Brauer began his teaching career as an instructor in church history and the history of Christianity at the Union Theological Seminary where he also served as assistant to Paul Tillich. In 1950, Brauer moved to Chicago to become Assistant Professor in History of Christianity at the University of Chicago. Associate Professor, 1954-1959. Became Professor of History of Christianity in 1959, Naomi Shenstone Donnelley professor of history of Christianity, 1969-1991, and professor emeritus in 1991.
After the establishment of the Federated Theological Faculty in 1943, Brauer served as the dean of FTF from 1955 to 1960. FTF was a formal alliance between the Divinity School at the University of Chicago, Disciples Divinity House, Meadville Theological School and the Chicago Theological Seminary. As a Lutheran, Brauer was considered by some to be an odd choice to oversee the four institutions, none of them Lutheran. When the Federation was dissolved in 1960 he became dean of the Divinity school, a position he held until 1970.
As Dean, Brauer was known for recruiting top faculty including Paul Tillich, Martin Marty, Don Browning, Clark Gilpin, and David Tracy. As the first Catholic faculty at the Divinity School, Tracy's hiring illustrated Brauer's commitment to increasing ecumenism in the Divinity School.
Brauer authored many scholarly books and articles including: Luther and the Reformation (1953) (with Jaroslav Pelikan). Protestantism in America: A Narrative History (1965), Images of Religion in America (1967), and John Nuveen: A Life of Service (1997). He also edited the collections, Reinterpretation in American Church History (1968), The Future of Religion (1966), The Lively Experiment Continued (1987), The Unrelieved Paradox: Studies in the Theology of Franz Bibfeldt (1994) (with Martin Marty), and the Westminster Dictionary of Church History (1971).
Brauer was a member of the American Society of Church History, he served as president in 1960. Brauer was the co-editor of the journal Church History from 1963 to 1998. Brauer was visiting lecturer at University of Frankfurt in 1961, and at University of Tokyo in 1966. He served as president of the board of theological education for the Lutheran Church in America from 1962 to 1968. Worked as consultant for the New York Education Department from 1969 to 1978. He was an official delegated observer for the World Council of Churches at Vatican Council II, was chairman of the Council on Religion and International Affairs from 1979-1983. He served as a trustee for Augustana College from 1964 to 1966 and at Carthage College from 1958 to 1962. He was also a visiting fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in 1972 and 1974. Brauer was member of the board of the Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs, serving as chairman between 1966 and 1983, and as chairman of the board of directors from 1979 to 1983.
Rachel Fuller Brown (1898-1980) began graduate study in chemistry at the University in 1920 after graduating from Mount Holyoke College. She received her M.A. in Chemistry in 1921 and, in 1926, after completing her course work for a doctorate, went to work for the New York State Department of Health's Laboratories and Research Division. Brown spent the next forty-three years there working and researching in the area of antibiotics. In 1933 she received her Ph.D. in Chemistry from the University.
In August 1863 a group of Baptist leaders met in Chicago and created the Baptist Theological Union. On Feb. 16, 1865, the Illinois legislature granted the Baptist Theological Union a charter for "the founding, endowment, support, and direction of an institution for theological instruction." That same year, Dr. Nathaniel Colver began to give instruction to a few students in his study. The Baptist Union Theological Seminary fully launched in 1866.
The formal work of the Baptist Union Theological Seminary began with the appointment of George W. Northrup as President and Professor of Systematic Theology. In the fall of 1867, courses in that subject as well as Ecclesiastical History and Biblical Literature and Exegesis were given to nineteen students in the Old University of Chicago’s Douglas Hall. On July 1, 1869, the Seminary dedicated its own building directly across the street from the Old University of Chicago. The Seminary provided theological education in English, Norwegian, Swedish, and Danish to Old University of Chicago and non-University students. Facing financial hardship in the mid-1870s, the Seminary sold its buildings near the Old University of Chicago and moved to donated land in the Chicago suburb of Morgan Park in 1877. The Old University of Chicago closed in 1886.
When John D. Rockefeller donated money toward the founding of the new University of Chicago, he made it a condition of the gift that the Baptist Union Theological Seminary become the Divinity School of the new institution. This took place formally on July 1, 1892. Since the establishment of the University of Chicago Divinity School, the Baptist Theological Union has continued its existence as a separate organization with its own Board, overseeing an endowment that provides support to the Divinity School.
Many Baptist Theological Union and Baptist Union Theological Seminary leaders were key to the founding and early history of the University of Chicago. E. Nelson Blake, President of the Board of the Baptist Theological Union from 1877 to 1893, was also a major donor to the new University of Chicago, and the first chairman of the University’s Board of Trustees. Edward Goodman and Thomas W. Goodspeed were also active in both institutions. The University of Chicago’s first President, William R. Harper, was a professor of Hebrew and Cognate Languages in the Seminary from 1879 to 1886. Dr. Eri B. Hulbert joined the faculty of the Seminary in 1881. In 1892, he became the first Dean of the Divinity School (until 1907).
Digby Bell Butler graduated from the Old University of Chicago in 1868 and recited an original poem at his graduation exercises. While at the University, Butler was the president of the Tri Kappa Society, the recording secretary of the Christian Association, the vice-president of the Students' Association, an editor for the school newspaper Index Universitatis, and a member of Phi Kappa Psi.
After graduating, Digby served as an alternate member of the Chicago Alumni Association. He was elected as judge of probate in Frankfort, Michigan (1866-1872). In and around 1877 Digby was a lawyer in the firm of Ramsdell & Benedict in Manistee County, Michigan. He was a Presidential Elector for Michigan in 1896.
In August 1863 a group of Baptist leaders met in Chicago and created the Baptist Theological Union. On Feb. 16, 1865, the Illinois legislature granted the Baptist Theological Union a charter for "the founding, endowment, support, and direction of an institution for theological instruction." That same year, Dr. Nathaniel Colver began to give instruction to a few students in his study. The Baptist Union Theological Seminary fully launched in 1866.
The formal work of the Baptist Union Theological Seminary began with the appointment of George W. Northrup as President and Professor of Systematic Theology. In the fall of 1867, courses in that subject as well as Ecclesiastical History and Biblical Literature and Exegesis were given to nineteen students in the Old University of Chicago’s Douglas Hall. On July 1, 1869, the Seminary dedicated its own building directly across the street from the Old University of Chicago. The Seminary provided theological education in English, Norwegian, Swedish, and Danish to Old University of Chicago and non-University students. Facing financial hardship in the mid-1870s, the Seminary sold its buildings near the Old University of Chicago and moved to donated land in the Chicago suburb of Morgan Park in 1877. The Old University of Chicago closed in 1886.
When John D. Rockefeller donated money toward the founding of the new University of Chicago, he made it a condition of the gift that the Baptist Union Theological Seminary become the Divinity School of the new institution. This took place formally on July 1, 1892. Since the establishment of the University of Chicago Divinity School, the Baptist Theological Union has continued its existence as a separate organization with its own Board, overseeing an endowment that provides support to the Divinity School.
Many Baptist Theological Union and Baptist Union Theological Seminary leaders were key to the founding and early history of the University of Chicago. E. Nelson Blake, President of the Board of the Baptist Theological Union from 1877 to 1893, was also a major donor to the new University of Chicago, and the first chairman of the University’s Board of Trustees. Edward Goodman and Thomas W. Goodspeed were also active in both institutions. The University of Chicago’s first President, William R. Harper, was a professor of Hebrew and Cognate Languages in the Seminary from 1879 to 1886. Dr. Eri B. Hulbert joined the faculty of the Seminary in 1881. In 1892, he became the first Dean of the Divinity School (until 1907).
Beatrice Stella Campbell (1865-1940), known professionally as Mrs. Patrick Campbell, was a renowned English actress, famous for her portrayal of characters at once passionate and intelligent. The daughter of Jon Tanner, an English businessman in India, and Maria Romanini, an Italian countess, she began her professional stage career in 1888. Her first great success was as Paula in "The Second Mrs. Tanqueray" by Arthur Pinero. Among her famous Shakespearian roles were Juliet, Lady Macbeth, and Ophelia. She also starred as Mélisande in Maeterlinck's "Pélleas and Mélisande," and in the title roles in Ibsen's dedda Gabler," Hofmannsthal's "Elektra," and Yeat's "Deirdre." In 1914 she created the role of Eliza Doolittle in Shaw's "Pygmalion," and she maintained a warm friendship with the playwright. After World War I, she played few new roles, mainly recreating her former starring parts on tour in the United States and England. During the 1930's she also played minor roles in several American films. She died in 1940 in Pau, France.
LeRoy T. Carlson was born in Chicago in 1916. He attended Chicago's Morgan Park Junior College (an extension of the Morgan Park Academy founded by William Rainey Harper) from 1933 to 1935, going on to earn his B.S. from the College at the University of Chicago in 1938 and his M.B.A. from Harvard in 1941.
Carlson served in the U.S. Army Ordnance Department from 1941 to 1943, leaving the United States in 1942 for stations in Accra, Gold Coast (now Ghana) and Cairo, Egypt. In January 1943, Carlson went to Iran with the Persian Gulf Service Command as part of the Ordnance's Iran mission to secure supply lines to Russia. Carlson was stationed at a truck assembly plant in Andimeshk (TAP One), in western Iran. These truck assembly plants were operated by General Motors Overseas Operations until 1 July 1943, at which point they were taken over by Ordnance-run companies, utilizing native labor. Carlson arrived in India in August of 1943 (Box 6, Folder 4), staying in that country to work as the assistant treasurer for the General Motors plant in Calcutta (now Kolkata), where he would stay until October of 1944 (Box 3, Folder 10). He served in the U.S. Navy from 1945 to 1946.
Carlson worked at the Merchandise Mart from 1946 to 1949 and then at the Acme Steel Company until 1951. He subsequently held positions at a series of telephone companies, eventually incorporating Telephone and Data Systems (TDS) in Chicago in 1968 after acquiring ten small rural phone companies in Wisconsin. Today, TDS is a Fortune 500 company, serving over six million customers across the country with its subsidiaries US Cellular, TDS Telecom, OneNeck IT Solutions, and Baja Broadband. He was CEO of TDS until 1986, chairman until 2002, and is now chairman emeritus. His son, LeRoy T. Carlson, Jr., is the current CEO of the company.
Henry Northrup Castle (1862-1895) was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, the son of American missionary parents, Samuel and Mary Castle. After spending all of his youth in the islands, where he attended Oahu College, he came to the United States in 1878 to attend Oberlin College. It was at Oberlin that Castle began a close friendship with George Herbert Mead, which lasted the remainder of his short life.
After working two years in his brother Will's law office in Honolulu following graduation from Oberlin in 1883, Castle studied in Germany and for two years at the Harvard Law School. Mead joined Castle at Harvard, and both men continued their studies in Germany. As intellectual companions, they shared a mutual interest in philosophy and literature, and exchanged lively letters extensively on these subjects.
Castle returned to Hawaii after marrying a German girl, Frida Steckner, and became editor and owner of the Pacific Commercial Advertiser and the Hawaiian Gazette, the principal newspapers in the islands. Frida was tragically killed in an accident in 1890, a month after their daughter, Dorothy, was born. After having married his second wife Mabel Wing in 1892, Castle returned, in 1893, to the United States to attend the Hawaiian Commission in Washington, which was investigating American intervention in the Hawaiian revolution to overthrow Queen Lilinokalani, and to visit George and Helen Mead. Mead had married Castle's sister, Helen, in 1891.
In 1894, Castle, ever in search of knowledge, returned to Germany with Dorothy to continue his studies in Leipzig. When word reached him in December 1894 of a counter revolt by Hawaiian royalists, Castle and his daughter left immediately for the islands on the steamship, Elbe, which collided with a small steamer on January 30, 1895 in the North Sea. Both Castle and his daughter were drowned, and he never was able to see his younger daughter, Elinor, who had been born a month before.
Castle was eulogized as a martyr to the cause of democratic government for Hawaii and a loyal supporter of the new Hawaiian Republic. Additionally, he was a man of unusual intellectual attainments whose friendship was an important influence on the career of George Herbert Mead.
The Chicago Citizens Police Committee was active from 1929 to 1931. Its primary purpose was to investigate the Chicago Police Department. The results of the study were described in The Chicago Police Problems, which was published in 1931 by The University of Chicago. The Committee consisted of eight members who were selected from The University of Chicago, Northwestern University, The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, and The Chicago Crime Commission. The first Chairman of the Committee was John H. Wigmore. He was followed by Leonard D. White.
The Contemporary Chamber Players was an art music performance ensemble founded at the University of Chicago by composer and Department of Music faculty member Ralph Shapey (1921-2002). During Shapey's tenure as conductor and director (1964-1993), the ensemble dedicated itself to the performance of compositions by the University of Chicago's doctoral candidates in composition, as well as newer or unknown composers who had not yet achieved national or international attention. Consequently, many of the composers whose works were performed by Contemporary Chamber Players went on to become prominent figures in the world of contemporary art music. Contemporary Chamber Players premiered works by composers such as Mario Davidovsky, George Perle, Shulamit Ran, George Rochberg, Roger Sessions and Ralph Shapey.
Contemporary Chamber Players benefitted greatly from funding from the Fromm Music Foundation, founded by Chicagoan Paul Fromm (1906-1987). The ensemble held an annual concert in his honor, featuring compositions by well-known contemporary art music composers. The ensemble also toured the United States, playing venues such as the Library of Congress and Carnegie Hall, as well as numerous colleges and universities. Locally, Contemporary Chamber Players worked closely with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra during the tenure of music director Jean Martinon (1963-1968).
After Ralph Shapey stepped down as Contemporary Chamber Players's director in 1993, the group was led by several resident conductors until Shulamit Ran, a faculty member and former Shapey student, became artistic director in 2002. The ensemble continues performing new art music in Chicago under the name Contempo.
The University of Chicago Central Administration Letterbooks cover the administrations of Max Mason (1925-1928), Robert Maynard Hutchins (1929-1951), and Lawrence A. Kimpton (1951-1960). Mason was the first President to come from outside the University. He oversaw a period of expansion, including the creation of a hundred new faculty positions, the completion of the hospitals, and a new football stadium. Under his successor, however, varsity football was eliminated; Hutchins sought to focus on cementing the University’s reputation for intellectual rigour, particularly at the undergraduate level, where he championed a liberal, non-specialized education. Despite his involvement with government projects on campus during wartime, notably the Manhattan Project, Hutchins was a defender of academic freedom who protected his faculty against post-war charges of communism. Kimpton’s administration was similarly ambitious, presiding over a controversial urban renewal project in Hyde Park to boost declining enrollment.
After a Round Table Discussion on 12 August 1945, in the course of which University of Chicago Chancellor Hutchins emphasized the need for world government, Richard P. McKeon and G. A. Borgese wrote to the Chancellor asking him for financial and moral support for an institute to formulate a world constitution. On 16 September 1945. Hutchins gave his support and by November 1945 the first document was presented for consideration by the Committee. In 1947 The Preliminary Draft of a World Constitution (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1948) was published. From June 1947 through June 1951 the Committee published a journal, Common Cause, devoted to articles concerned with problems relevant to the issue of world government and how to affect it.
The members of the Committee at the time of the publication of the Draft were: Robert M. Hutchins, G. A. Borgese, Mortimer J. Adler, Stringfellow Barr, Albert Guérard, Harold A. Innis, Erich Kahler, Wilber G. Katz, Charles H. McIlwain, Robert Redfield, and Rexford G. Tugwell. Additionally, Elisabeth Mann Borgese worked as a research assistant for the Committee and later editor of the journal Common Cause.
Caleb Stockton Chambers was born in late 1815 or early 1816 to Arthur and Elainor Chambers. He was baptized at the Presbyterian Church of the Upper West Conogogheaue on February 25, 1816. Nothing is known of his early life, but judging from the letters in this collection, Chambers was raised in a very religious household. He later went on to college in Washington, Pennsylvania. It is unknown which college he was attending when he received these letters, as no direct mention is made, but it may have been Washington & Jefferson College. The school was established in 1781 by John McMillan, Thaddeus Dod, and Joseph Smith, three Presbyterian missionaries. As the most prominent college in the city and with its religious foundations, it is likely Chambers attended.
The University of Chicago Chess Club ranks as one of the most successful chess teams in intercollegiate history. The team captured the Pan-American Intercollegiate Chess Championship title a record seven times, winning in 1945, 1956, 1958, 1968, 1972, 1973, and 1986. In addition to their competition schedule, members of the Chess Club dedicated themselves to promoting chess on campus, sponsoring intramural tournaments, educational opportunities, and lectures and demonstrations by visiting Grand Masters.
Dorothy Crowder Chessman attended Bradley Polytechnic Institute (now Bradley University) from 1915 to 1917. In 1917 Chessman enrolled at the University of Chicago, graduating in 1919 with a Ph.D. in English. While at the University of Chicago, Chessman was a member of Pi Beta Phi.
Chessman taught English at Peoria High School after college.
The Chicago Alumnae Club of the University of Chicago was organized on November 11, 1898 by Angeline Loesch (president), Charlotte Foye (vice president), Laura Runyon (secretary-treasurer), and 27 others. The idea for an alumnae organization came from Laura Runyon, who was a senior living in Nancy Foster Hall and suggested this to other seniors.
Members of the Club participated in campus life in many ways, including the establishment of a rental library (1908), the creation of a settlement fellowship (1908), and the performance of a review at the Whitney Opera House (1913). In 1915 Ida Noyes Hall opened with an Alumnae Room. The space was used when members acted as hostesses at teas and later organized swimming and athletic classes for members.
Hillary L. Chute (b. 1976) is a professor of American literature and visual art, known for her work on graphic novels. She was associate professor of English and the Department of Visual Arts at the University of Chicago from 2010-2015. Chute earned her Ph.D. in English from Rutgers University in 2006. She is the author of several books including Why Comics? From Underground to Everywhere (HarperCollins, 2017), Disaster Drawn: Visual Witness, Comics, and Documentary Form (Harvard University Press, 2016), Outside the Box: Interviews with Contemporary Cartoonists (University of Chicago Press, 2014), and Graphic Women: Life Narrative and Contemporary Comics (Columbia University Press, 2010).
In 1843 the State of Illinois chartered the Chicago Mechanics' Institute, an organization devoted to providing a means of further education to "mechanics, apprentices" and other workingmen, with a view to "elevating their trade-and consequently the community-by elevating themselves." The organization flourished, building up a large membership and a large library; offered numerous lectures, and was soon expanding into larger quarters. In 1849, past President Azel Peck died, leaving a will in which he bequeathed one half the income of his real estate holdings to the Institute for the period of twenty-one years after his wife's death (Ann Peck died in 1866), following which the whole fee would devolve upon it. The use of the money was specifically directed to "the education of poor apprentices and the support of widows and children of indigent artisans and mechanics in Chicago."
Three events, however, were to set back, and almost destroy the Institute. The great financial crisis of 1857 forced the Institute to retrench; the Civil War scattered its membership; and the great Chicago fire of 1871 completed the destruction of assets and property, and dispersal of membership. Beginning in 1875 the Institute began the task of rebuilding.
The Chicago Mechanics’ Institute had seventy-six students in 1890, and continued to grow. That year it also offered ten lectures on electricity and chemistry that were well attended with an average of 142 persons. By 1912, the institute had grown to 1,286 students. In a few years, the CMI offered courses on bookkeeping, shorthand, drawing, mathematics, phonography, grammar, and typewriting. It also had agreements with other schools to allow their pupils to enroll in programs they were not able to offer. In most successful cases, the institute was able to place students in jobs immediately after their training.
The Chicago Mechanics’ Institute also came to recognize the importance of having skilled laborers for international competition. In 1913, a CMI pamphlet noted, “The paternal governments of Europe are doing for our competitors across the Atlantic what must be done here by the efforts of our citizens,” they went on to explain, “namely, the establishment of schools of engineering and industrial art and museums, at the industrial centres; the arranging of frequent lectures on subjects of natural science, chemistry and architecture, and placing the standard works on kindred subjects within easy reach” (Box 1, folder 11). Above all, the institute valued providing an industrial education to the people of Chicago.
Orator F. Cook was an American botanist who specialized in cotton and rubber plants, as well as in the classification of palms. Born in 1867 in Clyde, New York, Cook graduated from Syracuse University in 1890, where he stayed on as an instructor for one year. He traveled extensively in many parts of the world collecting botanical specimens, and from 1891 to 1898 he was employed as a special agent of the New York State Colonization Society. He spent much of his time in Liberia, and in 1896, Cook was elected president of Liberia College, a position, which he held until 1898. From 1898 he served as a plant scientist with the U. S. Department of Agriculture, where he became Principal Botanist. He published almost four hundred books and articles during his life, and was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Science by Syracuse University in 1930.
John Merle Coulter (1851-1928), was born in China to Presbyterian missionaries Moses and Caroline Coulter. According to official records at Hanover College and Indiana University, he received an AB (1870) and honorary PhD (1884) from Hanover College and an honorary PhD (1884) from Indiana University.
Coulter served as Professor of Natural Sciences at Hanover College from 1874 to 1879 and Professor of Biology at Wabash College from 1879 to 1891. From 1891 to 1893, he was President of Indiana State University, then of Lake Forest College, from 1893-1896. In 1896, he became Chair of the Botany Department at the University of Chicago, where he remained until his retirement in 1925. In retirement, Coulter worked with the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research in Yonkers, New York.
In addition to his academic appointments, Coulter served as Assistant Geologist and Botanist for the Hayden Survey of what is now Yellowstone National Park (1872) and, in 1875, co-founded the Botanical Bulletin, soon renamed the Botanical Gazette. A staunch evolutionist and Presbyterian, he had a particular interest in the correlation of science and religion.
Founded by John Crerar and J. McGregor Adams ca. 1868, Crerar, Adams & Co. was a leading supplier to the railroad industry. Crerar and Adams soon brought in a third partner, Edward S. Shepherd, and the firm enjoyed enormous financial success as Chicago became the primary railway hub of the United States.
As an active philanthropist, John Crerar gave the city of Chicago a large sum of money in his will to found a public library. The Crerar Library was developed as a collection of science and medicine, and expanded throughout the twentieth century. In the 1980s, the Crerar Library was consolidated with the University of Chicago’s science collections, re-opening to the public in 1984.
Edwin Raymond Le Count was born April 1, 1868, in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. Le Count studied medicine and pathology at Carroll College in 1886-1887. Following this he attended various universities, including Rush Medical College, John Hopkins University, the Pasteur Institute in Paris, and the University of Berlin. While he was raised in Wisconsin, Chicago became the city where he spent the majority of his career. In 1892, Le Count became a resident at Cook County Hospital as well as a professor of Pathology at Rush College.
Le Count’s medical career extended to positions as the Attending Pathologist in Cook County Hospital, the Presbyterian Hospital, St. Luke’
In 1910, Howard Taylor Ricketts, a friend and colleague of Le Count, died unexpectedly from typhus fever, which Ricketts studied. This tragic event greatly affected Le Count and his fellow academics. Le Count assisted in the organization of the Ricketts Fund meant to assist with memorial costs.
In 1934, Le Count received the James E. Stacey Award for his research. Within the same year, his health began to fail. Edwin Raymond Le Count died in 1935.
The Commission was created in 1909 to succeed the State Board of Commissioners of Public Charities. Dr. Frank Billings was president of the Commission.
Rush was a well-known doctor in Philadelphia during the late 18th and early 19th centuries. He taught at the College of Philadelphia, the University of the State of Pennsylvania, and the University of Pennsylvania.
In 1909, the Society of Medical History of Chicago was founded in "to secure and preserve matters pertaining to the history of medical institutions, organizations and individuals particularly of Chicago and the adjacent country; and to stimulate interest in medical history in general." Original members of the society's council included George H. Cleveland, Henry T. Byford, Nathan S. Davis, John Edwin Rhodes, George H. Weaver, and Ludvig Hektoen.
In its early development, the society's explicit purpose was the collection and preservation of material documenting the history of medicine in Chicago. These historical collections were built during the early 1910s through early 1920s, and included print and manuscript material, primarily related to medicine in Chicago in the mid- to late-nineteenth century.
Beginning in the mid-1930s, the society shifted the focus of its activities to publishing, public programs and social events. The organization sponsored lectures, meetings and other events, including the annual Morris Fishbein Lecture; it published the Bulletin of the Society of Medical History of Chicago and internal newsletters. Key members of the group during the mid- to late-twentieth century included Ilza Veith, Frederick Stenn, Leo M. Zimmerman, Morris Fishbein, Allen G. Debus, James B. Herrick, William A. Pusey, Arthur F. Abt, H.W. Kienast, Joseph H. Kiefer, Walter L. Necker, George H. Coleman and William K. Beatty. In 2005, the organization was renamed the Society of Medical History and Humanities of Chicago to reflect its broader research interests.
Ernst Kraupa was a German opthamalogist. Bayard Taylor Holmes was born in North Hero, Vermont in 1852. He received a BS from the Paw Paw Institute, near Aurora Illinois, in 1874. After teaching for several years in Illinois schools, in 1883, he received an MD from Chicago’s Homeopathic Medical College. Holmes also studied and interned at Cook County Hospital and the College of Physicians and Surgeons, and remained associated with both institutions as a physician and educator in later years.
Holmes was publicly active as an advocate of improved medical education and as a lecturer on public health at Hull House. In 1895, he was the Populist Party candidate for Mayor of Chicago. He retired teaching and medical practice in 1908, to care for his son Ralph, who suffered from “dementia praecox,” the contemporary term for schizophrenia. Holmes also devoted his retirement to research and writing about schizophrenia. He died in 1924 in Fairhope, Alabama.
Bayard Taylor Holmes was born in North Hero, Vermont in 1852. He received a BS from the Paw Paw Institute, near Aurora Illinois, in 1874. After teaching for several years in Illinois schools, in 1883, he received an MD from Chicago’s Homeopathic Medical College. Holmes also studied and interned at Cook County Hospital and the College of Physicians and Surgeons, and remained associated with both institutions as a physician and educator in later years.
Holmes was publicly active as an advocate of improved medical education and as a lecturer on public health at Hull House. In 1895, he was the Populist Party candidate for Mayor of Chicago. He retired teaching and medical practice in 1908, to care for his son Ralph, who suffered from “dementia praecox,” the contemporary term for schizophrenia. Holmes also devoted his retirement to research and writing about schizophrenia. He died in 1924 in Fairhope, Alabama.
Bayard Taylor Holmes was born in North Hero, Vermont in 1852. He received a BS from the Paw Paw Institute, near Aurora Illinois, in 1874. After teaching for several years in Illinois schools, in 1883, he received an MD from Chicago’s Homeopathic Medical College. Holmes also studied and interned at Cook County Hospital and the College of Physicians and Surgeons, and remained associated with both institutions as a physician and educator in later years.
Holmes was publicly active as an advocate of improved medical education and as a lecturer on public health at Hull House. In 1895, he was the Populist Party candidate for Mayor of Chicago. He retired teaching and medical practice in 1908, to care for his son Ralph, who suffered from “dementia praecox,” the contemporary term for schizophrenia. Holmes also devoted his retirement to research and writing about schizophrenia. He died in 1924 in Fairhope, Alabama.
Bayard Taylor Holmes was born in North Hero, Vermont in 1852. He received a BS from the Paw Paw Institute, near Aurora Illinois, in 1874. After teaching for several years in Illinois schools, in 1883, he received an MD from Chicago’s Homeopathic Medical College. Holmes also studied and interned at Cook County Hospital and the College of Physicians and Surgeons, and remained associated with both institutions as a physician and educator in later years.
Holmes was publicly active as an advocate of improved medical education and as a lecturer on public health at Hull House. In 1895, he was the Populist Party candidate for Mayor of Chicago. He retired teaching and medical practice in 1908, to care for his son Ralph, who suffered from “dementia praecox,” the contemporary term for schizophrenia. Holmes also devoted his retirement to research and writing about schizophrenia. He died in 1924 in Fairhope, Alabama.
Brainerd Currie was born on December 20, 1912, in Macon Georgia. He graduated from Augusta Junior College, in Augusta Georgia, then received an LL.B. from Mercer University in 1935. He taught first at Mercer, then at Wake Forest College, before resuming his studies at Columbia Law School, where he earned an LL.M. in 1941 and a J.Sc.D. in 1955.
After briefly serving on the Law Faculty at the University of Georgia, Currie worked during World War II in the Offices of Price Administration and Economic Stabilization. From 1946 to 1949, he taught at Duke Law School. He joined the new Law Faculty at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1949, served briefly as Dean of the Law School at the University of Pittsburgh in 1952, then joined the faculty at the University of Chicago Law School, where he remained until returning to Duke in 1961. As a legal scholar, Currie was best known for study of conflict of laws, which arises when the laws of multiple countries or jurisdictions are in contradiction. He also penned nonsense verse and humorous lyrics, with legal themes, the best known of which is "The Rose of Aberlone."
Currie married Elmyr Park in 1935. The couple had three children, Elliott, Carolyn, and David, who also served on the Law Faculty of the University of Chicago. Currie died in Durham in 1965.
William Allison Davis was born on October 14, 1902 to Gabrielle and John Davis, and was raised, along with his brother, John, and his sister, Dorothy, in Washington, D. C. Allison's father worked as an official in the Government Printing Office, and the family owned farmland in Virginia.
After attending segregated Dunbar High School, Allison Davis received his A.B. in 1924 from Williams College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and graduated summa cum laude as class valedictorian. Davis enrolled at Harvard University in English and Comparative Literature and earned his A.M. in 1925.
From 1925 to 1931, Davis served as Instructor in English at Hampton Institute in Virginia, where he developed some of his first insights into cultural and social class differences and educational efficacy. Davis concluded that what he needed most was an understanding of the "southern environment and black communities from which my students came." In 1931, Davis returned to Harvard to study social anthropology and its application to contemporary society under W. Lloyd Warner.
During his graduate career, Davis earned a Julius Rosenwald Fellowship for Foreign Study at the London School of Economics. From 1932 to 1933, Davis took part in the seminars of Bronislaw Malinowski and Launcelot Hogben in anthropology and Julian Huxley in evolutionary biology. It was during this period that Davis drafted his first significant article, "The Distribution of the Blood Groups and Its Bearing on the Concept of Race," which saw the notion of race as a predominantly cultural construct and which further undermined the biological legitimacy of the concept as applied to human beings.
Upon his return to the U.S., Davis began research in the deep South. From 1933 to 1935, through the auspices of the Rockefeller Fellowships for Field Work and the Committee of Industrial Physiology of Harvard University, Davis, along with Burleigh and Mary Gardner, conducted a multi-layered study of caste and class in Natchez, Mississippi.
Davis was joined in the field by his wife, Elizabeth Stubbs Davis, and, later, by St. Clair Drake. Elizabeth's strength as an interviewer proved especially helpful among the women of the African-American community, and, in fact, Davis would enlist her skills on several other projects in the years to come.
Field work on the project lasted two years, and another five were required to analyze the data and produce the final text. Deep South was published by the University of Chicago Press in 1941 and is today considered a classic. It argued that southern society, exemplified by the Natchez community, comprised a highly stratified class system, marked by discrete and meaningful social cliques which defined an individual's relative position in the socio-economic hierarchy. Further, Deep South argued that a color-caste system overlaid this pattern of class stratification.
In 1935, having completed the fieldwork for Deep South, Davis accepted a position in the anthropology department at Dillard University in New Orleans where he would become Head of the Division of Social Studies. During his tenure there, Davis also served as Director of Research (1938-1939) for a project sponsored by the American Youth Commission of the American Council on Education. This project concerned the psychological and personality development of urban black adolescents in New Orleans and Natchez. Davis, along with Yale psychologist John Dollard, sought to combine an anthropological approach with the expanding theoretical techniques of social psychology.
In 1939, Davis returned with Dollard to Yale as a guest of the Institute of Human Relations, where the research was put into final form. Their acclaimed Children of Bondage was published in 1940.
By this time, Davis's mentor, Lloyd Warner, had left Harvard and taken a post at the University of Chicago. In 1939, Davis decided to follow him in order to complete his doctoral degree. He did so on his second Julius Rosenwald Fellowship and as a Research Associate in the Center on Child Development. In 1942, Davis received his Ph.D. in anthropology. His dissertation, entitled "The Relation Between Color Caste and Economic Stratification in Two 'Black' Plantation Counties," was directed by Warner, Fred Eggan, and Fay-Cooper Cole and derived from his half of the Deep South data.
In 1937, Gunnar Myrdal had been invited by the Carnegie Corporation to direct a comprehensive, sociological study of African-American life in the United States. The outcome of that research was the authoritative work, The American Dilemma. Davis was consulted on the project and agreed to undertake a specific assignment, the production of a research memorandum on "The Negro Church and Associations in the Lower South." At the same time, he would direct the investigations of St. Clair Drake into similar institutions in Chicago. The findings documented in his 1940 memorandum were incorporated into Myrdal's final product.
During this period, Davis renewed his association with the American Council on Education, serving as a staff member of the Division on Child Development and Teacher Personnel from 1940 to 1942. Davis also briefly became the Head of the Department of Education at Atlanta University.
Davis earned the admiration and respect of several key figures at the University of Chicago, Warner, Ralph Tyler, and Robert J. Havighurst among them. Yet, because of his color, Davis's appointment to the Department of Education was not easily won and ultimately required the financial intervention of the Julius Rosenwald Fund. Davis was furthermore denied faculty membership at the private Quadrangle Club until 1948. Nevertheless, in 1942 Allison Davis became the first African American to hold full faculty status with teaching duties in an American university which was not traditionally all black. He would remain at the University of Chicago through the rest of his career, achieving tenure in 1947 and full professorship in 1948, again firsts.
In 1942, Davis, along with Havighurst, launched a study of child-rearing among black and white families from middle and lower class backgrounds in Chicago. This research eventually led Davis and his colleagues to investigate the ways in which color and class differences are reinforced in the processes of socialization and education, and it helped to inaugurate precedent-setting studies on the reliability and validity of standardized intelligence tests. In 1948, Davis delivered the Inglis lecture to the Graduate School of Education at Harvard University. In it, he utilized his research to demonstrate the inabilities of such standardized intelligence tests to accurately assess the potential of lower class children.
Davis' efforts in these areas resulted in several major publications including Father of the Man (1947), co-authored with Havighurst, the Inglis lecture Social-Class Influences Upon Learning (1948), and Intelligence and Cultural Differences (1951), written with Kenneth Eells, Havighurst, Virgil Herrick, and Ralph Tyler. Davis, likewise, worked closely with his colleagues in an effort to develop their own non-biased tests. The efforts of the Davis group led many major cities and educational districts to discard their use of traditional intelligence tests.
In the early 1950s, Davis and Robert Hess embarked on longitudinal study of adolescence and young adulthood. Working with a team of interviewers, Davis and Hess began with a cross-section of the senior class of a Chicago-area high school and re-investigated those same individuals about seven years later in 1961. Their results, published in 1963 as Achievement in Adolescence and Young Adulthood, contradicted much received knowledge about personality and ego development. Davis and Hess concluded that, while the "identity crisis" begins during adolescence, the resolution of that crisis is not achieved until early adulthood and depends upon the emergence of a strong, self-supporting ego.
In 1964, Davis, along with Hess and Benjamin Bloom, organized the Research Conference on Education and Cultural Deprivation at the University of Chicago. The conference was convened not only to assess and analyze the problems of education and cultural deprivation, but to conceive practical recommendations for the alleviation of those problems in educational settings.
Throughout the 1960s and early 1970s, Davis delivered notable lectures at educational institutions around the nation, including the Billings Memorial Lecture at Smith College, the Horace Mann Lecture at the University of Pittsburgh, and the Frederick Douglas Lecture at the University of Rochester. In 1970 he was appointed the John Dewey Distinguished Service Professor in the Department of Education at the University of Chicago. And in 1971 Davis was chosen one of the "Gold Medal Educators of the 1960s" by the journal Education.
In 1972, Davis was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, becoming the first member chosen from the field of education. He was an active participant in the life of the academy, serving on the Committee on Memberships through 1974.
In 1978, after thirty-six years on the faculty, and nearly forty years of continuous association, Allison Davis retired from the University of Chicago, becoming Professor Emeritus. Despite retirement he received grants from the Spencer Foundation and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation for his work on black leadership and the socially constructive use of aggression. In 1983, this work was published as Leadership, Love, and Aggression, a psycho-social study of the lives of four prominent black leaders and intellectuals: Frederick Douglass, W. E. B. DuBois, Richard Wright, and Martin Luther King, Jr.
Shortly before his death Davis was honored by a symposium at the University of Chicago, supported by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation, "Race, Class, Socialization and the Life Cycle." Davis was honored by the participation of many colleagues and friends, including Robert Hess, Ralph Tyler, Robert Havighurst, John Hope Franklin, Bernice Neugarten, and Edgar Epps.
Allison Davis died on November 21, 1983 at the age of eighty-one.
Richard Robert Donnelley (1836-1899), born in Hamilton, Ontario, arrived in Chicago in 1864 to apply his trade as a journeyman printer with the firm of Church and Goodman, Steam Printers. He was an ambitious and entrepreneurial young man, and in the next several years he entered into numerous partnerships - and endured more than one bankruptcy - in the city's growing printing industry.
A major turning point in Donnelley's fortunes came in 1871. Several days after losing both his business and his home in the Great Chicago Fire, he boarded a train to New York with only a few dollars and a letter of introduction. His mission was to secure financing and purchase printing equipment to re-establish himself in the printing business.
The outcome of his trip is one of countless success stories that came in the aftermath of the Chicago Fire. In New York, Donnelley was extended credit based solely on his reputation. He purchased the most modern presses available and leased temporary space in Chicago's Loop, which was being rebuilt with unprecedented speed. In taking these steps, Richard Robert Donnelley also helped to ensure that Chicago would become the printing center of the West.
By the 1870s, Donnelley's printing firm established a reputation for quality that quickly made him one of the largest book, directory and periodical printers in the West. Another important person in this story was Donnelley's wife, Naomi Ann Shenstone Donnelley (1845-1934), who was equally determined that the family company would grow into a major force in the printing industry.
In 1882, Richard Robert Donnelley purchased his partners' interest in the company that was then known as Donnelley, Gassette and Loyd, and renamed it for the last time. On May 19, 1890, the enterprise was reincorporated and became "R.R. Donnelley and Sons Company."
Donnelley added many of Chicago's most prestigious accounts to his customer list. They included the Chicago Telephone Company, Montgomery Ward and Company, Lyon and Healy, The University of Chicago, Deering Harvester Company, American Radiator Company, The Caxton Club, S.C. Griggs and Company, A.C. McClurg and Company, Herbert S. Stone, McCormick Harvesting Machine Company, Marshall Field and Company, Carson Pirie Scott and Company, The Chicago Club, and many others.
RR Donnelley published and printed the Lakeside City Directory of Chicago in the 1870s. Richard Robert Donnelley believed, however, that publishing and printing should be managed separately, and in 1881 established the Chicago Directory Company as a distinct enterprise. In 1886, these companies undertook to produce directories for the Chicago Telephone Company. The first Chicago Telephone Directory produced by Donnelley's new firm included a classified section, a new concept in telephone directories and predecessor to what is now the Yellow Pages.
In 1887, Donnelley's eldest son Reuben Hamilton Donnelley (1864-1929), became manager of this publishing subsidiary, and by 1917 it was incorporated as the Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation, an independent publisher of telephone directories.
As Chicago grew in the last quarter of the 19th century, RR Donnelley grew with it. The company was among the first American printers to consolidate all aspects of the printing process under one roof. In 1897, Donnelley hired the young architect Howard Van Doren Shaw to design a new facility at the corner of Plymouth Court and Polk Street on what is now Chicago's Printing House Row. The new Plymouth Court building was fully outfitted with state-of-the-art equipment: a typesetting machine, Miehle press, perfect binder, Smythe sewing machine, and rotary press with folding delivery. This was to be the first of three manufacturing plants that Shaw would design for the company. Each time the buildings were more modern in concept and design than the printing industry had previously known.
With the death of Richard Robert Donnelley in 1899, his son Thomas E. Donnelley (1867-1955) assumed the presidency of the company. The younger Donnelley's talent as a salesman, commitment to quality craftsmanship, and vision of the future led RR Donnelley into the new century.
Among the early milestones of T.E. Donnelley's presidency was the beginning of the Lakeside Classics series in 1903. This tradition continues as an annual gift to employees, customers, and friends, and demonstrates the premier craftsmanship of the company's typographers, printers, and binders. Appropriately, the first Lakeside Classics title was the Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, "patron saint" of American printers. Subsequent titles have been selected from American historical memoirs. Lakeside Classics are now highly collectible.
In 1908 T. E. Donnelley's quest for quality craftsmanship led to the creation of one of the first apprentice training schools in the country. Boys "of special promise and ability" were admitted to a seven-year apprenticeship consisting of "craftsmanship combined with cultural studies." In creating this school RR Donnelley established an enduring tradition of training its own craftsmen.
The company maintained a leadership role in many areas of printing throughout the first decades of the 20th century. In 1909, RR Donnelley printed architect Daniel Burnham's landmark treatise on urban planning, the Plan of Chicago. And in 1910, RR Donnelley established a long relationship with Encyclopaedia Britannica when it began work on its new Eleventh Edition. By 1912 the company had outgrown its facility on Plymouth Court. Architect Howard Van Doren Shaw was commissioned to design a new plant at Calumet Avenue and 22nd Street. Built in several phases over the course of 17 years and completed in 1929, it was considered the "largest building in the United States devoted to the production of printing." The case bindery could produce 25,000 books a day, while the mail-order bindery had a capacity of several hundred thousand catalogs and telephone books per day.
In 1921, a new manufacturing facility, also designed by Shaw, was opened in Crawfordsville, Indiana, to print the Indianapolis Telephone Directory. It was the first company facility outside of Chicago, and this expansion foreshadowed a long-time commitment of RR Donnelley to serve its customers better by establishing itself in proximity to them.
RR Donnelley also established itself as the leader in commercial graphic design and typography. In 1922 the company hired William A. Kittredge (1891-1945), one of the leading graphic artists of his time, to direct and develop the Department of Design and Typography. The department set new standards in commercial graphic design, placing RR Donnelley at the center of this important field for more than three decades.
In 1923 the company hired well-known British bookbinder Alfred de Sauty (1870-1949) to direct the newly formed Extra Bindery. RR Donnelley was one of the first commercial printers in America to employ a staff devoted to this old-world craft. The Extra Bindery distinguished itself in hand binding and also in graphic conservation. Notable commissions included the conservation of J.J. Audubon's folio edition of Birds of America, four of the twenty-three known copies of the first printing of the Declaration of Independence, a leaf from the Gutenberg Bible, the papers of John Quincy Adams, and correspondence of Abraham Lincoln. Fine bindings by RR Donnelley's Extra Bindery continue to be sought by collectors.
In the late 1920s, RR Donnelley sought to capture the burgeoning mass-readership book market. As part of this effort the company undertook its famous "Four American Books" project, wherein RR Donnelley published and printed limited editions of Poe's Tales, Thoreau's Walden, Dana's Two Years before the Mast, and Melville's Moby Dick. The purpose of this project was promotional - to demonstrate that American books of the highest quality could be produced entirely by an American printer using all American illustrators, typefaces, paper, and machinery. This printing of Moby Dick, illustrated by Rockwell Kent, is recognized as one of the most famous editions of this classic work. Today all four books of the series are coveted by collectors and stand as examples of the highest quality in mass-market printing.
RR Donnelley made another indelible mark on the cultural history of Chicago when it won the contract to be the official printer of the Century of Progress Exposition in 1933. Guidebooks, post cards, brochures, programs, and other printed material for the world's fair were integral to one of the most important expositions of modern design.
RR Donnelley pioneered the fields of industrial engineering research and development in the printing industry. An example of the company's emphasis on technology was the development of heat-set printing in 1936, which was essential in the production of a new weekly news magazine, Henry Luce's Life. For the first time a high-quality illustrated weekly periodical could be produced on high-speed web-fed presses. The close relationship between RR Donnelley and Life, whose circulation grew as no magazine before, was demonstrated again in 1946 when the company began construction of a second Chicago manufacturing facility, South Plant, devoted entirely to the production, printing, and distribution of the nation's greatest illustrated magazine.
Charles C. Haffner, Jr., (1895-1979), son-in-law of T.E. Donnelley, was named Chairman of the Board in 1952, and headed the company through its period of post-war growth. Recognizing the need for substantial capitalization, Haffner presided over the company's first public offering in 1956. Haffner discussed the move in terms of a long-time fundamental commitment: "Growth is basic at Donnelley's, for we believe that a business that is not growing is already beginning to decay."
In the decades that followed, RR Donnelley experienced expansion that assured its leadership in the world printing market. New manufacturing plants were opened in Willard, Ohio (1956); Warsaw, Indiana (1958); Lancaster, Pennsylvania, with the purchase of Rudisill Printing Company (1959); Old Saybrook, Connecticut (1960); Mattoon, Illinois (1967); Dwight, Illinois (1968); Glasgow, Kentucky (1970); Gallatin, Tennessee (1975); Harrisonburg, Virginia (1979); and Spartanburg, South Carolina (1979).
During these years major contracts were signed or renewed with National Geographic Society; Time, Inc.; Sears, Roebuck and Company; J.C. Penney; New Yorker Magazine, Inc.; Lane Publishing, Inc.; Condé Nast; Cowles Communication, Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc., and many other important publishing concerns.
Gaylord Donnelley (1910-1992), second son of T. E. Donnelley, became Chairman of the Board in 1964. His long career in the family business began in 1927 as an apprentice. Gaylord Donnelley subsequently held many positions with the company, and he chronicled his career with the company upon his retirement as Chairman in 1975 with the publication of a richly personal memoir, To Be A Good Printer. In it he wrote: "It seems abundantly clear that the philosophy, policies, standards, and practices that have evolved during the history of our company have now as much value as ever, possibly more. While we have held to them firmly, we have also adapted them as needed to the ever-changing scene in our industry and society."
In the mid-1970s RR Donnelley engineers once again made history when they developed Selectronic ink-jet printing and binding. This technology made it possible for publishers to selectively control the editorial and advertising content of each copy of a periodical edition based on subscriber profile.
In 1975, Charles W. Lake, Jr. (b.1918) became the first person outside the Donnelley family to be named Chairman of the Board. Charles Lake had been Director of Engineering and Research Development, a position he assumed in 1956, and his focus on technology blended perfectly with the company tradition of excellence. "Our Company has earned its reputation as 'The House that Quality Built' on the strength of the quality we put into every step of every operation," Mr. Lake said in a 1966 speech. "The future success of our business will depend on how well we maintain and improve our reputation for total quality."
In 1978 RR Donnelley simultaneously became a coast-to-coast and worldwide printing concern when it expanded into Los Angeles, California and York, England. One year later, in 1980, RR Donnelley reached the billion-dollar mark in annual sales. Two years later the company began satellite transmission between the United States and the United Kingdom. RR Donnelley was the first printing company to utilize this technology, and the trans-oceanic link placed the company at the center of the highly competitive financial and legal printing market. In 1983 the Financial Printing Services Group was created in response to this growth, and in 1984 the satellite network was extended to the Far East.
In the early 1980s RR Donnelley's Technical Documentation Services began serving the personal computer industry, reproducing software, and printing user manuals. RR Donnelley expanded its range in this international market with a new plant in Singapore to serve the Far East.
John B. Schwemm (b. 1934) served as Chairman of the Board from 1983-1988. "Quality," said Schwemm, "should characterize our manufacturing methods. Quality should be evident in the people we hire and in the training we give them. And, quality should be exercised at all levels of management. We must use great care so as not to give less attention to the foundation of quality than did our predecessors." In 1987, under Schwemm's leadership, RR Donnelley acquired Metromail Corporation, a provider of list and list enhancement services.
In 1983 RR Donnelley's Financial Printing Services Group undertook the mammoth printing contract associated with the AT&T divestiture prospectus. It was the largest financial printing, binding, and distribution job of its time, with 3.6 million copies. In the 1980s, the Financial Printing Services Group opened offices in Paris, Seoul, Mexico City, and Hong Kong to serve the financial documentation needs of multinational corporations.
The ability to anticipate future needs of its customers always has been an RR Donnelley strength. As the company moved into electronic communication, mailing and distribution, database and list management, and other auxiliary services, it became a leader in diverse aspects of tomorrow's communications technology.
In 1989 John R. Walter (b. 1947) became the seventh Chairman of the Board. Shortly after assuming the position, he discussed RR Donnelley's future and outlined the company's three key priorities: 1) To establish, communicate and manage the strategic vision, direction and plan; 2) to make decisions on the intelligent investment of our capital for a long-term return; 3) to continue to identify and develop the people who will successfully lead this company into the 21st century.
RR Donnelley expanded to Mexico in 1989 when ground was broken for a new book printing plant in Reynosa. In 1990 RR Donnelley made its largest ($550 million) acquisition to date by purchasing Meredith/Burda, a major catalog and magazine printer with operations throughout the U.S.
In 1992 the company relocated its corporate headquarters to The RR Donnelley Building at 77 West Wacker Drive. This move consolidated many corporate functions under one roof and placed RR Donnelley in the heart of Chicago's business district.
In the early twenty-first century, RR Donnelley is a Fortune 500 company, and among the world's leading providers of printing and print-related services to publishers, manufacturers, retailers, financial institutions and technology companies.
Dave Dugan is a cartoonist, painter, paper maker and printer living in Iowa City, Iowa. He was born in Boston in 1965 and studied painting at Skidmore College with David Miller, and animation at The School of The Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. He started Zen Comix in 2004 and continues to maintain it online. His works draw on political commentary, jazz music, and meta-commentary about the comic medium, often using a combination of abstract and figural imagery. Dugan often works with India ink, watercolor, handmade paper, and found objects.
Everett Cherrington Hughes was born on November 30, 1897. He was the son of a Methodist Episcopal minister who believed firmly in the equality of Black and white people, advocated for education, and disapproved of drinking, card playing and dancing. Many members of the Hughes family had attended college at Ohio Wesleyan, and Everett did as well beginning at the age of 16. Hughes received his B.A. from Ohio Wesleyan in 1918.
After graduation Hughes taught English to the workers of the Wisconsin Steel Works at Chicago. It was here as Hughes worked with immigrant factory workers that he was made aware of the importance of ethnic identity. From there he worked for Upper Peninsula Industrial Relations Association in Escanaba, Michigan from 1920-1922. Hughes then was awarded a Centenary Fund grant from the Methodist Church with which he studied the community of Pullman, Illinois, under the guidance of Garrett Theological Seminary.
In the fall of 1923 Everett Hughes enrolled at the University of Chicago as a graduate student in sociology and anthropology. Hughes studied under Robert E. Park, Ernest W. Burgess, Ellsworth Faris, Robert Redfield, Ruth Shonle Cavan, Nels Anderson, and other noted scholars. He maintained his residence in Pullman and found a job as the director of Mark White Square Park for the South Park Commission. This job provided Hughes with a rich location to do sociological research. He took students there to do field work and produced a study on the police for Ernest W. Burgess.
In 1925 he met Helen Gregory MacGill and they were married in August of 1927. Helen became an active partner in many of Hughes's projects.
Just before completing his dissertation in 1927 Hughes was offered a position at McGill University in Montreal with Carl A. Dawson, another University of Chicago graduate. At this time McGill University was the only university in Canada to offer a program in sociology, and Dawson and Hughes became the first two members of that department. Hughes received his Ph.D. degree in 1928. His dissertation, The Growth of an Institution: The Chicago Real Estate Board was first published in 1931 by the Society of Social Research of the University of Chicago.
Hughes established his research interests in the fields of race and ethnic relations, industrialization, and occupations. In 1931-1932 Hughes was the recipient of a Social Science Research Council Fellowship to Germany to study the Catholic labor movement in the Rhineland. He planned his research in Germany to complement his work on French Canada. In the late 1930s he and Helen did a study of the change in a French Canadian town as it industrialized under English Canadian management. Just as the research on this project was completed, Everett Hughes was offered an assistant professorship at the University of Chicago in 1938. Hughes accepted the job and French Canada in Transition was eventually published in 1943.

Hughes remained at the University of Chicago until 1961. He was promoted to associate professor in 1943, and professor in 1949. He served as chairman of the Department of Sociology between1952 and 1956. During World War II he became a member of the Committee on Human Relations in Industry along with George Brown, Allison Davis, Burleigh B. Gardner, Frederick Harbison, Robert J. Havighurst, Neil Jacoby, W. Lloyd Warner, and William Foote Whyte. The Committee was a business and academic partnership to study industrial society. A few corporations supported the Committee to achieve its research. Industry and Society was published in 1946 and Hughes's contribution was chapter 6, "Race Relations in Industry." Hughes published other books and articles in the 1940s and 1950s reflecting his continuing work in the areas of race relations, professions, and occupations. Some of these publications includes: Where Peoples Meet: Racial and Ethnic Frontiers, (1952) by Everett C. Hughes and Helen M. Hughes; Men and Their Work, (1958); and Twenty Thousand Nurses Tell Their Story: A Report on Studies of Nursing Functions Sponsored by the American Nurses' Association by Everett C. Hughes, Helen M. Hughes, and Irwin Deutscher, (1958).
During his tenure at the University of Chicago Hughes's activities show evidence of his commitment to Robert Park as a mentor and his training at the University of Chicago as a sociologist. He revived Robert Parks's course on race relations and transformed it into a course on the African novel that he began to teach at Brandeis University in 1961. Hughes was also a member of the Committee on Education, Training, and Research in Race Relations with Louis Wirth, Robert Redfield, Fred Eggan, Sol Tax, Allison Davis, Ralph W. Tyler, and Frederick Harbison. He participated in the efforts to aid German universities after the war through the University of Chicago's Committee for Aid to German and Austrian Scholars. He held visiting professorships at Frankfurt University through the exchange program in the years 1948, 1953, and 1958. His article "Good People and Dirty Work" came from his first tour there in 1948. Hughes also continued to develop courses in field training for sociologists.
In the 1950s Hughes became a member of the Committee on Human Development and began to take a more active interest in the sociology of education. Through this committee he established ties to Kansas City, where the committee had been doing research. Hughes began working with professors at the University of Kansas Medical School in 1952. The study of the Medical School developed into a study of the undergraduate college with the encouragement of Dean George R. Waggoner. The two monographs that resulted from these studies were Boys in White by Howard S. Becker, Blanche Geer, Everett Hughes, and Anselm Strauss, (1961), and Making the Grade by Howard S, Becker, Blanche Geer, and Everett Hughes, (1968). Hughes carried on his involvement with medical education when he joined the American Medical Association's Citizens Commission on Graduate Medical Education from 1963 to 1967.
As the studies at the University of Kansas were underway, Hughes moved to Boston and began teaching at Brandeis University in 1961. During this same academic year he served as president of the American Sociological Association.
Still in contact with many colleagues in Canada, Hughes received an invitation to propose a study to the Canadian Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism in 1963. This commission was appointed by the Canadian Government to study ways in which to cauterize the crises between French and English Canadians. By this time his book French Canada in Transition had long been a classic text in Canadian sociology. In 1965 he took leave from Brandeis University for a year and accepted a joint visiting professorship at McGill University and the Université de Montréal. During this year he taught and pursued a project approved by the Royal Commission using students from both universities to assist in the fieldwork. His final report "Career Patterns of Young Montrealers in Certain White Collar Occupations," was completed but never published.
In 1968, Hughes moved his activities to Boston College after becoming an emeritus at Brandeis. He taught at Boston College until he gained emeritus status there in 1976. During the 1970s Hughes enjoyed advising students from both Brandeis University and Boston College. He also participated in another study funded by the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education, Education for the Professions of Medicine, Law, Theology, and Social Welfare, by Everett C. Hughes, Barrie Thorne, and Agostino M. De Baggis, (1973).
Everett Cherrington Hughes died in Boston on January 4, 1983, at the age of 86.
Edward Morris was President of Morris & Company, one of the three main meat-packing companies in Chicago at a time when that city was known as the meatpacking capital of the world. Upon his death, Morris was said to have amassed a personal fortune of $40 million.
Morris was born in Chicago on October 1, 1866. His father, Nelson Morris, founded Morris & Co. Edward was educated in Chicago public schools, and his natural aptitude and interest in his father's business led him to begin spending time there at age 14. In 1890, Morris married Helen Swift, a daughter of one of his two main competitors. The couple had four children, Nelson II, Edward, Jr., Ruth, and Muriel. Muriel Morris Gardner later became a renowned psychiatrist.
Edward Morris' professional interests extended beyond meatpacking. He was the largest individual stockholder in several of Chicago's largest financial institutions. He was a director of the First National bank, the National Livestock Bank, and the National Packing Company. He also personally managed the finances of Morris & Company.
A shrewd businessman, Morris cooperated with his two main competitors, Armour and Swift, to their mutual benefit. The three began proceedings around the turn of the century to combine their assets and form the National Packing Company. Muckraker Charles Edward Russell's 1905 book on the existence of a "beef trust," The Greatest Trust in the World, spurred the federal government to begin antitrust proceedings. Morris and his colleagues were not indicted on antitrust charges, but they voluntarily dissolved the National Packing Company in 1912. Morris and his employees clashed on issues of wages and working conditions, but at the time of his funeral, the Morris family hosted a two-hour reception for company employees in their home.
Morris died in 1913 after a prolonged battle with kidney disease. In 1917 his widow Helen married Francis Nielson, a journalist, and in 1920 she helped to fund Nielson’s short-lived publication, The Freeman. Helen also became a significant donor to the University of Chicago Library.
The architect of the Edward Morris House was Howard Van Doren Shaw. Shaw designed twenty-one homes in the Hyde Park and Kenwood areas. A native of Chicago's South Side, Shaw was born in 1869. He returned to his hometown after attending Yale and M.I.T. and traveling to Europe. Many critics believe that Shaw’s exposure to European design inspired his unique interpretation of the Beaux Arts and Arts and Crafts movements that dominated residential design at the turn of the century. Edward Morris represented a typical member of Shaw's client base, which generally consisted of members of Chicago's growing mercantile and industrialist elites. The Morris House was completed in 1913, the year of Edward Morris' death.
The Morris House landscape plan is believed to have been designed by Rose Standish Nichols, one of the first American women to become a professional landscape designer. Nichols was a resident of the Beacon Hill neighborhood of Boston. Many of her projects are now recorded in the Archives of American Gardens of the Smithsonian Institution. She wrote three books and numerous articles on European landscape design. One of the founding members of the International Women's League for Peace and Freedom, Nichols never married, instead devoting her personal life to the suffragist and international pacifist movements.
Albert Einstein was born on March 14, 1879, in Ulm, Germany. His parents were Hermann Einstein, a salesman and engineer, and Pauline Koch. Einstein grew up in Munich, and was educated initially at a Catholic elementary school (though the Einsteins were non-observant Ashkenazi Jews) and continued his education at the Luitpold Gymnasium until he left Germany seven years later. After failing the entrance examinations for the Swiss Federal Polytechnic (though receiving exceptional marks in the physics and mathematics portions of the exam), Einstein completed his secondary schooling at the Argovian cantonal school in Switzerland. He went on to gain entrance into the Zurich Polytechnic at the age of seventeen (1896), and graduated with his teaching diploma in 1900. It was there that Einstein also met his future wife, Mileva Maric.
After his schooling, Einstein worked in a Swiss patent office until 1908. In 1905 Einstein completed his thesis and was awarded a PhD by the University of Zurich, and, that same year, published four groundbreaking papers in the Annalen der Physik journal. As a result, 1905 is often referred to as Einstein’s “annus mirabilis,” or “miracle year.” In 1908, he was appointed as a lecturer at the University of Bern, associated professor in 1909, full professor at the Chrles-Ferdinand University in 1911, professor of theoretical physics at the ETH Zurich from 1912-1914, and finally the director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physics and professor at Humboldt University of Berlin in 1914 in his native Germany. In 1916, he became the president of the German Physical Society.
Einstein’s genius earned his great admiration around the world, confirmed by his travels abroad in the early 1920s. In 1921, Einstein delivered a series of lectures on the theory of relativity at the University of Chicago. In 1922, he was awarded the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics. In the early 1930s, Einstein travelled to the United States. Upon learning of the Nazi’s rise to power in Germany, Einstein knew he would be unable to return to his homeland. After renouncing his German citizenship, he took a position at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. His affiliation with the organization would last until his death in 1955.
Because of his knowledge of physics, Einstein took a particular political interest in the dangers of nuclear weaponry. It is suggested that it was Einstein’s letter to President Roosevelt, warning of the dangers of a nuclear-armed Germany, which urged the U.S. to engage in its own nuclear research. Einstein was also a committed antiracist and joined the NAACP in Princeton. As the years progressed, Einstein became involved in a number of political and social issues, writing papers critical of capitalism and becoming involved in Zionist movements. Einstein was granted U.S. citizenship on 1940.
Einstein died on April 17, 1955, from the rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Alfred Edwards Emerson was born in Ithaca, New York on December 31, 1896. He was also educated in Ithaca, receiving his B.S. (1918), M.A. (1920), and Ph.D (1925) from Cornell University. His first teaching appointment was as associate professor of zoology at the University of Pittsburgh (1925-1929). In 1929 he accepted a position as associate professor of zoology at the University of Chicago where he remained until his retirement in 1962; he achieved the rank of full professor in 1934. During his tenure at the University of Chicago, Prof. Emerson also held visiting appointments at the University of California at Berkeley (summer 1949) and Michigan State University (spring 1960), where he was awarded an honorary Sc.D. Emerson had two children by his first wife, Winifred Jelliffe, who died in 1949. His second wife, Eleanor Fish, died in 1971.
At the University of Chicago, Emerson was a central figure in what became known as the "Chicago school" of ecology. Along with Warder Clyde Allee and Thomas Park, with whom he co-authored the groundbreaking Principles of Animal Ecology (1949), Emerson developed a model of biological evolution in which the social group, rather than the individual organism, constitutes a superorganism that is the primary unit of natural selection. This model represents competition, both within and between species, as operative at multiple levels within a total ecological system, generating either cooperation or conflict.
Emerson's contribution to the "Chicago school" of ecology was based on his extensive research on termite physiological morphology and behavior. Using behavior traits, such as geographically specific nest building techniques, as indices of sub-speciation among termites, Emerson not only helped to elaborate termite taxonomy to a high degree of precision, but discovered evidence of a link between social and biological evolution. As a result of his research on termites, Emerson came to view reproductive behavior and division of labor as the fundamental group adaptations responsible for processes of social evolution, analogous in function to physiological adaptations in processes of biological evolution. Emerson further theorized that the social evolution of superorganisms tends toward greater overall efficiency and total ecological homeostasis or equilibrium.
Emerson also sought to interpret the implications of his work on the relationship between social and biological evolution for human social ethics. During World War II, Emerson spoke out against the misuse of Darwin's doctrine of the survival of the fittest as justification for nationalist aggression and totalitarian domination of the weak by the strong. He argued that cooperation more often than struggle is the key to survival and well-being among humans as well as other social animals. He did not idealize cooperation, however, as an end in itself, but formulated a relativistic natural ethics according to which the good and the right are those things and actions that function to promote "efficient homeostasis for all concerned."
In addition to teaching and prolific publication, Emerson conducted extensive field research abroad and participated in many scientific organizations. He traveled widely in search of termite populations for study, visiting Central and South America, numerous Caribbean and Pacific islands, and parts of Asia, Africa, and Australia. He was a central figure in the Ecological Society of American, serving as Secretary-Treasurer in 1931, editor of Ecology from 1932 to 1939, and president in 1941. Emerson was also a member of the Society for Systematic Zoology of which he was president in 1958, and a co-organizer of the Society for the Study of Evolution, which he served as president in 1960. Alfred E. Emerson died on October 3, 1976.
The Encyclopaedia Britannica was founded in 1788 by a “Society of Gentlemen in Scotland.” It became the property of Sears, Rosebuck & Co. in 1920 under Julius Rosenwald. Though offered in February 1943 to the University of Chicago, it was instead personally acquired by the University’s vice president, William Benton. The University’s faculty became involved with the production of the Encyclopaedia, including Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins, who took a leave of absence in 1946 to guide the adult education program of the Encyclopaedia. During these years, the Encyclopaedia’s title pages noted that it was "edited with the advice of the faculties of the University of Chicago."
Ruth Falkenau was born on September 28, 1895 to Esther Friend Greenebaum and Harry Falkenau, a well-regarded Chicago musician, critic and bookseller. Falkenau received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Chicago in 1918. From 1919 to 1930, Falkenau corresponded with American poet and writer Carl Sandburg. The exact nature of their relationship is unclear, but Falkenau seems to have assisted in Sandburg's correspondence with publishers. Falkenau died on June 8, 1988.
Ella Tilles Falk was born in 1902 to a family of Polish Jews in Fort Smith, Arkansas. Her parents were George and Lillian Tilles. In 1919 she entered the University of Chicago, graduating in 1923 from the College of Commerce and Administration. While at the University, she was vice-president of the Southern Club, active in the WAA, and served on the staff of the Commerce and Administration Magazine.
In October of 1923 Ella married John Allfree, also a University of Chicago alumnus, in Fort Smith, Arkansas. She later married George Falk, an insurance agent. Falk lived in Fort Smith until her death on April 21, 1999. An avid doll collector, she left her collection to the Fort Smith Museum of History.
Lloyd Ashton Fallers, Jr., generally called Tom, was born in Nebraska City, Nebraska, on August 29, 1925, the son of Lloyd A. Fallers and Fannie Lincoln. He graduated from East High School, Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1943. After spending a year at the University of Utah (1943-1944) and a year at Deep Springs College (1944-1945) Fallers came to the University of Chicago in the fall of 1945 and completed his Ph.B. degree in 1946.
Arriving at the University of Chicago, Fallers had intended to study medicine but found that his interests gravitated towards the study of society. Pursuing these growing interests he began to study anthropology. Fallers conducted anthropological field work under the direction of Sol Tax for four months in Iowa during 1948, and this research formed the basis of his master's thesis on "The Role of Factionalism in Fox Acculturation." He was awarded an A.M. degree in anthropology in 1949.
In 1949 Fallers married Margaret Chave who was also a graduate student teaching in the College. In autumn 1949 Fallers attended the London School of Economics on a Fulbright Scholarship to study with Audrey Richards, Raymond Firth, Daryll Forde, and Edmund Leach. Richards had recruited Fallers for study in Africa on a visit to the University of Chicago. On Richards' recommendation as director of the East African Institute of Social Research, Fallers was awarded a Colonial Social Science Research Council fellowship to help her establish the Institute in Kampala, British Protectorate of Uganda. In 1950 Fallers left for East Africa and, as a fellow of the East African Institute, conducted a study of the Busoga. He returned to the University of Chicago in 1952. During the course of the following year, Fallers, acting as an instructor in the Department of Anthropology, worked on his dissertation with Robert Redfield, Fred Eggan, and Lloyd Warner. Fallers was awarded a Ph.D. degree in 1953.
In his dissertation, entitled "Bantu Bureaucracy: A Study of Role Conflict and Institutional Change in the Soga Political System," Fallers investigated the role of the headman in village life and the ways in which change in the wider colonial political system had influenced this role. In doing so, he addressed how the indigenous Busoga political institutions and the British administrative structure had come to form a single institutional complex.
Later Fallers expanded his thesis, and published it in revised form under the title Bantu Bureaucracy: A Study of Integration and Conflict in the Political System of an East African People (1956). The material which Fallers collected, somewhat incidentally while he was doing research, about Busoga law and
courts was presented much later in his Law without Precedent: Legal Ideas in Action in Courts of Colonial Busoga (1969).
In 1953 Fallers went to Princeton for one year as a lecturer in anthropology. The following year he returned to Uganda. As Uganda was preparing for self rule, Fallers acted as the Senior Research Officer at the East African Institute before being appointed Richards' successor as Director of the Institute at the beginning of 1956. There Fallers worked with, among others, J. La Fontaine, Priscilla Reining, Aidan Southall, Martin Southwold, Derrick Stenning, and J. W. Tyler. It was during this period that Fallers conducted research into the leadership and political institutions of Buganda (1954-1957). Fallers' work formed the core of his edited volume entitled The King's Men: Leadership and Status in Buganda on the Eve of Independence (1964), which was part of a larger project on the study of leadership financed by the Carnegie Corporation.
Fallers, returning to the United States in 1957, was appointed Assistant Professor and subsequently Associate Professor at the University of California, Berkeley. He spent 1958-1959 at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in Palo Alto in the company of Clifford Geertz, Fred Eggan, David Apter, Meyer Fortes, Raymond Firth, and Morris Janowitz. In 1960 Fallers returned to the University of Chicago as an Associate Professor of Anthropology. Fallers was appointed Professor at the beginning of 1964 and for the year 1967-1968 was the first recipient of the Henry Schultz Rotating Research Professorship in the Social Sciences. In 1970 Fallers was given a joint appointment to the departments of anthropology and sociology, and in 1972 he was named the A. A. Michelson Distinguished Service Professor.
On his arrival at the University in 1960 Fallers played a central role in founding the Committee for the Comparative Study of New Nations, which was established to encourage the comparative analysis of the social, political, administrative, cultural, and economic changes associated with the development of new states in Africa and Asia. On July 1, 1970, Fallers succeeded Clifford Geertz as the chairman of the committee. Fallers was also active in the Committee on African Studies and in the Center for Middle Eastern Studies. The various interests Fallers developed while participating in the academic life of the University were used, by him, to thematically draw together a collection of previously published essays in Inequality: Social Stratification Reconsidered (1973). These interests also formed the basis of his edited volume Immigrants and Associations (1967).
Throughout his career Fallers was actively engaged in a large number of projects which extended beyond the immediate University community. In 1958 Fallers participated in the Ford Foundation's Review of African Studies Programs in the United States. Then in 1961 Fallers was appointed Associate Editor for Anthropology for the International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences, a project in which he was actively engaged throughout the decade. During 1962-1963 Fallers, Kwamena Bentsi-Enchill, Denis Cowen, and Allison Dunham formed the commission on land tenure for the government of Basutoland which was funded by the Ford Foundation. This was a team of University of Chicago professors who were invited to make recommendations to the government regarding land tenure and land law. In recognition of his wide scholarly contributions Fallers was elected to the American Academy of the Arts and Sciences in 1972.
While developing his interests in the problems of modernization Fallers began, in the early 1960s, to conduct preparatory research on Turkey and in 1964 conducted field research in Konya, Turkey. In 1968 Fallers, accompanied by his wife, went to Edremit, Turkey, for one year to analyze the function of a small community in the operation of the larger national society. He returned to Edremit in 1971, but this stint of research was cut short when he had to return to Chicago after fracturing his elbow. Earlier Fallers had been successfully treated for a brain tumor. Now medical examinations revealed his cancer had reappeared. Fallers' condition deteriorated, and he died on July 4, 1974.
Fallers' last book, The Social Anthropology of the Modern Nation-State (1974), was based on the Lewis Henry Morgan Lectures which he gave at the University of Rochester in April 1971. In these lectures he compared the situations of East Africa and Turkey, crystallizing much of what he had learned about modernization and social change. This book was published posthumously.
Shirley Farr was born in 1851. A member of a prominent Chicago family, she received a Ph.B in 1904 from the University of Chicago. While a student Farr lived in Beecher Hall and was a member of the Women Students Christian League. After graduation, Farr served as an associate professor of history and French at Ripon College, where she later accepted a position on the board of trustees and became a major donor. Farr served as an assistant in history (1914-1917), a half-time Instructor in History (1929-1934), and a departmental counselor (1929-1934) at the University of Chicago.
Farr contributed a great deal of money to the University of Chicago, including a gift of $1,000 annually for five years for the purchase of manuscripts for the Library beginning in 1924. In 1929, Farr contributed gifts amounting to $14,500 to establish an endowment for the Cleo Hearon Fellowship in History. In the same year, Farr provided the first of many gifts that would total $25,000 in support of the University's general development fund. She made other donations in support of causes as diverse as the William Rainey Harper Memorial Library Fund, the Medical School, the Quadrangle Club, the Institute of Sacred Literature, the School of Social Service Administration, and the Law School, where she contributed to the James Parker Hall Professorship endowment. By 1939, when the Board of Trustees took special note of her cumulative contributions, she had donated more than $62,000 to the University of Chicago.
Farr lobbied for the greater recognition of the female donors of the University and she also served as a member of the Board of Alumni Relations.
Shirley Farr died in 1957.
Fred Eggan was born in Seattle, Washington on September 12, 1906. His parents, Alfred J. and Olive Smith Eggan, later relocated to Lake Forest, Illinois, a north suburb of Chicago.
In 1923 Eggan came to the University of Chicago as an undergraduate and continued on to earn an M.A. in psychology with a minor in anthropology in 1928. His master's thesis was entitled "An Experimental Study of Attitudes toward Race and Nationality." From 1928 to 1930 he taught psychology, sociology, and history at Wentworth Junior College and Military Academy in Missouri. During this interval he maintained his connection with the University of Chicago by working summers with Fay-Cooper Cole at Native American archaeological sites in Illinois.
In 1930 Eggan returned to the University of Chicago as a doctoral student in anthropology, completing his dissertation in 1933. Following post-doctoral field research in the Philippines he assumed an instructorship at the university, part-time for the Extension program and part-time for the Department of Anthropology. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1940 and associate professor in 1948. Not long after his promotion to associate professor he received a full professorship. He chaired the Department of Anthropology from 1948 to 1952 and again from 1961 to 1963. He was appointed the Harold H. Swift Distinguished Service Professor of Anthropology in 1963.
Eggan is credited with having achieved a synthesis between the British and American schools of anthropological study. The British school, as exemplified by Eggan's first mentor A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, was then dominated by the synchronic analysis of the function of cultural institutions. In contrast, American anthropologists, including Eggan's teachers Fay-Cooper Cole and Robert Redfield, focused on processes of diachronic culture change. Eggan united these two perspectives by attending to both structure and history using a method of analysis he called "controlled comparison." Based on results achieved by this method, Eggan's most important publication, Social Organization of the Western Pueblos, hypothesized that variations in the social structures of linguistically and culturally related Native American groups were the result of the varied historical circumstances experienced by each group. By applying this same method in his later work on the impact of modernity and Western culture on indigenous Philippine groups, Eggan formulated an inverse corollary: that differing social structures cause different linguistic and cultural groups to respond differently to the same historical circumstances. These insights concerning the interdependence of social structures and historical processes remain at the forefront of contemporary anthropological theory.
When Eggan enrolled as a graduate student in 1930, the Department of Anthropology had just become independent from the Department of Sociology, with Fay-Cooper Cole, Edward Sapir, and Robert Redfield as the core faculty. Sapir soon left the department and was replaced by A. R. Radcliffe-Brown in 1931. Eggan became Radcliffe-Brown's first research assistant in 1931-1932 and began research on kinship and social organization of northern Native American tribes. Under Radcliffe-Brown, Eggan completed a report on the southeast, plains and southwestern tribes.
Eggan continued field research on native North America in 1932 when he was awarded a Laboratory of Anthropology Field Training Fellowship to support his work on the Hopi Indian reservation in Arizona. There he met Don Talayesva, an informant with whom he developed a lifelong friendship. Eggan based his doctoral dissertation, which he completed in 1933, on research from this field work. Social Organization of the Western Pueblos, published in 1950 by the University of Chicago Press, represents a substantially revised version of this work. Eggan balanced his studies of the southwest with his later work on the Philippines, returning to the Southwest almost every year until he retired.
While waiting for final arrangements for a two-year post-doctoral fellowship in Australia, Eggan resumed field study among the Hopi at Oraibi and Second Mesa, Arizona. It was at this time, in the winter of 1933-1934, that Eggan began an association with John Collier and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Collier invited Eggan to participate in a conference between the Bureau and the Navajo regarding sheep reduction and soil conservation. Later in his career, Eggan continued his involvement with the Bureau, serving as an expert witness in Southwestern Native American land claim cases.
Returning to Chicago in the spring of 1934, Eggan learned that funds he was slated to receive could no longer cover the cost of field research in Australia. As an alternative, he arranged to go to the Philippines. Fay-Cooper Cole had worked there under the auspices of the Field Museum in 1907-1908, and wanted Eggan to record changes in Tinguian culture since the time of his original research.
In the late 1930s Eggan developed his field material from North America and published on the Hopi, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and Choctaw. In 1941 he completed his first work on the Philippines, "Some Aspects of Cultural Change in the Northern Philippines." In 1938 he married Dorothy Way who was to become an anthropologist of the Hopi and Eggan's professional partner. A. R. Radcliffe-Brown left the University of Chicago for Oxford in 1937. In honor of his departure, Eggan edited Social Anthropology of North American Tribes.
In 1941-1942 Eggan's earlier acquaintance with John Collier led to participation in a pilot study on food and nutrition in the Southwest among Native American and Spanish-American communities. Graduate students conducted the research for this project under the direction of Eggan and Michael Pijoan, M.D. In October of 1942 Eggan was called to Washington to work for the Board of Economic Warfare. Three months later he was Chief of Research in the Office of Special Services for the Philippine government in exile. While carrying out research requested by President Quezon at the Library of Congress, Eggan again worked with Filipinos he had met on his first trip to the Philippines in the mid 1930s. After six months in this capacity, he attended the School for Military Government at Charlottesville, Virginia in preparation for setting up the Civil Affairs Training Program for the Far East at the University of Chicago. Eggan, as a Captain in the army, then returned to the University of Chicago to direct the Program from August 1943 to August 1945.
During and after World War II, Eggan's interests focused on the Philippines, although he still published on Native American subjects. Financed by a Fulbright grant, Fred and Dorothy Eggan spent the year 1949-1950 at the University of the Philippines. In 1953 Eggan won a Guggenheim Fellowship to further his work on the Sagada Igorots. That same year the Philippine Studies Program at the University of Chicago began operations. Eggan established the Philippine Studies Program with money from the Carnegie Corporation of New York, and directed the program until 1977.
In 1958-1959 Eggan was a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Stanford, California. At the Center, among other projects, he prepared a report on the social and ceremonial organization of the Sagada Igorots.
After the early 1960s Eggan concentrated his efforts on teaching. In 1961 he participated in the first Peace Corps training program at Pennsylvania State University for the Bikol region and Bisayas in the Philippines. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1963. In 1965 his wife Dorothy died.
Four years later Eggan married his second wife, Joan Rosenfeld. In 1970 Eggan was a visiting fellow at All Souls College, Oxford. He retired from teaching at the University in 1974, but stayed on to manage the final projects of the Philippine Studies Program until 1977. He made his last visit to the Philippines in 1975. Late in 1986 he and his wife, Joan, moved to Santa Fe, New Mexico, where he continued work until his death in 1991.
Philip Fox was born on March 7, 1878, in Manhattan, Kansas. He received BS and MS degrees in mathematics from Kansas State University, and a second BS, in physics, from Dartmouth College. He completed graduate studies in astronomy in at the University of Berlin in 1905, and received a PhD in astronomy from the University of Chicago in 1906.
In 1903, Fox joined the University of Chicago's Yerkes Observatory as a Carnegie Research Assistant and instructor in astrophysics. He became director of Northwestern University's Dearborn Observatory in 1909, and served as chair of the University's Department of Astronomy. In 1929, he was named the first Director of Chicago's Adler Planetarium. He served as Director of the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry from 1937-1942.
In addition to his academic career, Fox served in the US Army during the Spanish American War, and the First and Second World Wars, reaching the rank of Colonel in the Army Reserve between the World Wars. He commanded the Army Signal Corps and the Army Electronics Center at Harvard in 1942 and 1943, and taught briefly at Harvard after leaving the army. Fox married Ethel Snow in 1905. The couple had four children. He died on July 21, 1944.
Carlos de Francisco Zea was born into an established and intellectual family in Bogota, Colombia on November 27, 1936. Taken to Mexico by his mother he excelled scholastically at the American High School and won a scholarship to the University of Chicago. He received his undergraduate degree in 1959, winning the Goethe prize in the study of Germanic Language and Literature. In 1970 he received his PhD in Germanic Language and Literature. He taught at several institutions, including Carleton College, the University of Illinois and the City Colleges of Chicago. Carlos de Francisco Zea died on May 5, 1991.
Henry Gordon Gale was born September 12, 1874 in Aurora, Illinois. His father, Eli Holbrook Gale, was a physician trained at University of Pennsylvania. Henry Gale's mother, Adelaide Parker Gale, died six weeks after his birth. He was then raised by his maternal grandparents in rural Illinois.
Gale received his A.B. degree from the University of Chicago in 1896. He continued on to a Ph.D. in Physics in 1899, joining the Faculty in the Department of Physics that same year. He obtained full professorship in 1916 and retired in 1940.
During his career at the University of Chicago, Gale held a number of administrative offices. He served as Dean of the Colleges from 1908 to1922, Dean of the Ogden Graduate School of Science from 1922 to1930, and Dean of the Division of the Physical Sciences from 1931 to 1940. Gale was Chairman of the Department of Physics from 1925 to 1940 and Editor of the Astrophysical Journal from 1912 to 1940. He held the office of president of the Physics Club of Chicago from 1931 until 1940, and was given honorary lifetime membership in the organization upon his retirement. Gale was widely published in the field of astrophysics; with Robert A. Millikan, he co-authored textbooks for high school and college physics courses.
While his career as an astrophysicist was centered at the University of Chicago, Gale also conducted research at Mount Wilson Solar Observatory in Pasadena, California. While working in Pasadena in 1909, Gale was involved in an electrical accident which left him badly burned; he was hospitalized for two months to undergo skin graft operations.
In addition to his career as a physicist, Gale served in the Army during World War I. He attained the rank of lieutenant colonel after serving in the United States and France, was cited for "especially meritorious and conspicuous service" by General Pershing, and received France's decoration of the Legion of Honor.
While a student at the University of Chicago, Gale met Agnes Spofford Cook, daughter of Dr. John W. Cook, educator and first President of Northern Illinois University in DeKalb. Agnes Cook had attended Wellesley College for one year before continuing her studies at the University of Chicago. The two married in 1901, and their daughter Beatrice was born in 1904. Agnes Gale published a number of poems and narratives for children, including an adaptation of Homer, Achilles and Hector: Iliad Stories Retold for Boys and Girls.
Henry Gordon Gale died November 16, 1942.
The Dean of Rockefeller Memorial Chapel and representative of the University of Chicago, Charles W. Gilkey was born in Massachusetts on 3 July 1882. His parents were James H. Gilkey, and Mary Lottie Johnson. Gilkey's brother James Gordon also entered the ministry and became a reverend.
Educated in the United States, Gilkey also pursued graduated studies in Europe:
Harvard, A.B. 1903, A.M. 1904
Union Theological Seminary, B.D., 1908
Universities of Berlin and Marburg, 1908-1909
United Free DH. Coll. Glasgow, 1909-1910
New Coll. Edinburgh and Oxford University 1909-10
Hon. D.D. Williams 1925; Hillsdale College, 1925; Yale, 1927; Brown, 1928; Harvard, 1929; Colby, 1931
In 1910 the Hyde Park Baptist Church ordained Gilkey as their pastor and he remained there for 18 years. He married Geraldine Brown, a graduate of the University of Chicago (1911) on 26 July 1915. Together they had a daughter, Mary Jane, and a son, Langdon Brown. The family lived in Hyde Park, Chicago during the school year and summered in Maine.
Gilkey acted as a Trustee of the University of Chicago from 1919-1929. In 1928 he accepted the position of Dean of the Rockefeller Memorial Chapel of the University, which he would hold until 1947. Gilkey aimed to make Rockefeller Chapel a place of multi-denominational worship with a strong core of participants. This was a difficult task, he admitted, because the students stayed at the university only four years.
Gilkey also served as the Associate Dean of the Divinity School and represented the University in the position of the "Professor of Preaching of the University of Chicago Divinity School" at Princeton, Yale, Cornell, Chicago, Toronto, Wellesley, Stanford, Purdue, Harvard, Wellesley, and the University of Washington. The University appointed Gilkey the Barrows Lecturer to India, 1924-1925
Geraldine devoted herself to the YWCA as the national president and served as the vice-president of the United Council of Church Women in addition to opening the Gilkey home to students at the University.
Gilkey announced his retirement in June 1947. The Gilkey's retired to Massachusetts from which they continued to travel and lecture. A student scholarship, the "Charles and Geraldine Gilkey Fund" was established to honor him and his wife. Mr. Gilkey passed away in Massachusetts in March 1968.
Langdon Brown Gilkey (b. 1919 and d. 2004) was born and raised in Chicago, Illinois. His father, Rev. Charles W. Gilkey (1882-1968), was chaplain of the Rockefeller Memorial Chapel on the campus of the University of Chicago and Associate Dean of the Divinity School. Langdon Gilkey acquired his A.B. from Harvard University in 1940 and a joint Ph.D. from Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary in 1954. Gilkey taught at Union Theological Seminary in New York from 1949 to 1950, Vassar College from 1951 to 1954, and Vanderbilt University from 1954 to 1963. In July 1963 he was appointed to the faculty of the Divinity School of the University of Chicago. After his retirement in 1989, Gilkey taught periodically at the University of Virginia and Georgetown University.
From 1940 to 1942, Gilkey taught at Yenching University (now part of Peking University) in Beijing, China, which was then occupied by the Japanese. After the attack on Pearl Harbor, the United States and Japan formally entered in to war, and Gilkey was interned along with other Allied civilians by the Japanese in the Weihsien Internment Camp in Shandong, China from 1943 until the end of the war; this act may be seen as a retaliation to the forceful relocation of Japanese Americans by the United States. Gilkey discussed the formative impact of this experience in Shantung Compound: The Story of Men and Women Under Pressure (1968), and he revisited the compound in 1995.
A prominent American Protestant Theologian, Langdon Gilkey authored fifteen books and several hundred scholarly articles during his career. He systematically outlined his theology in three major works: Naming the Whirlwind: The Renewal of God-Language (1969), Repeating the Whirlwind: A Christian Interpretation of History (1976), and Message and Existence: An Introduction to Christian Theology (1979). He is best known for his writings on science and religion, including Creationism on Trial: God at Little Rock (1985) that builds upon his testimony at McLean v. Arkansas, a landmark case on the teaching of creationism in public schools. Gilkey wrote authoritatively on twentieth-century theologians Reinhold Niebuhr and Paul Tillich; both were his teachers at Union Theological Seminary. Gilkey also fostered exchanges between theological traditions. He offered a Protestant perspective on the theological movements of Vatican II in Catholicism Confronts Modernity (1975). He authored articles and reviews on Christian-Buddhist dialogues and taught at Kyoto University in Japan in 1975.
Harold Foote Gosnell (1896-1997) grew up in Rochester, New York, where he attended the University and graduated in 1918. He served briefly in the army, remaining in America, before pursuing graduate studies in political science at the University of Chicago. At Chicago Gosnell worked with Charles E. Merriam, graduating in 1922 and staying on as faculty. By 1932 Gosnell was an Associate Professor and closely associated with Merriam's approach to the discipline, which incorporated methods from economics, sociology, and psychology.
Gosnell's work during the 1920s and 1930s used statistical analyses to draw conclusions about voter behavior and political participation. He became known for his research into Chicago politics and the African-American vote; Negro Politicians: The Rise of Negro Politics and Chicago (1935) and Machine Politics: The Chicago Model (1937) were still considered authoritative texts in the 1990s. Gosnell also completed studies of American non-voters and voter turnout in Europe. His work was consistently valued for its "behaviorism" method, which made use of the quantitative models favored by the other social sciences, but modified their tendency towards determinism.
Despite this success, however, the Political Science Department came under increasing criticism from University President Robert Hutchins, who disliked Charles Merriam's political activism. In 1941 Gosnell accepted a job with the Bureau of the Budget. In 1946 he moved to the State Department, where he remained until 1960. He continued to publish on voter motivations, though his case studies of presidential leadership demonstrated a shift away from behaviorism.
During this period Gosnell also served as faculty at American University, where he conducted research on the Soviet Union for their Special Operations Research Office. In 1962 he was invited to teach at Howard University, where his scholarship on African-American politics was particularly admired. Gosnell retired in 1970, but continued to receive accolades for his contribution to the discipline, awarded the Charles E. Merriam Award from the American Political Science Association in 1981. Both APSA and the University of Rochester created fellowships named for him, and by the time of his death in 1997 Gosnell was widely considered to have made quantitative analysis mainstream in political science.
Gosnell was married to Florence Fake, who died in 1991.
Louis Gottschalk was born in Brooklyn on February 21, 1899, and received his early education at P.S. 43 and Brooklyn High School. A New York state scholarship enabled him to enter Cornell University in the autumn of 1915. Gottschalk ultimately received three advanced degrees from that institution: an A.B. in 1919, A.M. in 1920, and the Ph.D. in 1921. Gottschalk later explained the importance of his years at Cornell, which during the early twentieth century produced a remarkable number of outstanding historians. He noted the flexibility of the graduate program, the splendid library, and a small student body at the graduate level. When Louis Gottschalk arrived at Cornell the faculty included Charles Henry Hull in American history, Wallace Notestein in English history, and Nathaniel Schmidt in Oriental studies. His doctoral committee consisted of Carl Becker, William Lynn Westerman, and George Lincoln Burr, all presidents of the American Historical Association.
When Carl Becker joined the faculty in 1917, Louis Gottschalk attended his first classes on the French Revolution. Becker's influence on Gottschalk's intellectual development and his importance to the young scholar's later career was profound, and Gottschalk acknowledged it often throughout his life. It was Becker who instilled in Gottschalk the conviction that history was not simply a chronicle of events, but could and should encompass the methodology and insights of other disciplines. Furthermore, as one of Gottschalk's students remarked, Gottschalk was trained at a time when “by precept and example Becker was leading a personal crusade for the involvement of ideas in the average historical account.” Given his mentor's example, Gottschalk's willingness to grapple with problems ranging from individual motivation to world culture is understandable.
Personally as well as professionally, the Cornell years were important for Gottschalk. Leo Gershoy, later professor of modern European history at New York University, also entered Cornell in the fall of 1915, and the two freshmen became lifelong friends. By the time they registered for Becker's class in their junior year, Gershoy, Gottschalk, and two classmates (Ernest Hettich, and Barnet Novar) had come to be known collectively as “the Goops,” for reasons unknown to Gottschalk. They remained fast friends long after they had left Ithaca, with Gottschalk and Gershoy closely associated “as personal friends, cooperative colleagues and amicable rivals.” Before leaving Cornell for his first teaching position, Gottschalk married Laura Riding, then a student in English literature, later a poet and critic. They were divorced in 1925.
After completing his dissertation on Jean Paul Marat in 1921, Gottschalk accepted a position as Instructor at the University of Illinois- From there he moved to the University of Louisville where he was assistant and then associate professor from 1923 to 1927. Although Gottschalk was able to research and publish several articles while in Kentucky, the environment became uncongenial when a new President instituted policies which alienated members of the faculty. When the controversy led to the dismissal of a colleague from the History Department, Gottschalk became one of the first members of the American Association of University Professors to request that fledgling organization to investigate policies which, according to Gottschalk, included unfair faculty contracts, lowered standards for students, and administrative pressure on faculty members to attend football games and chapel exercises. By the spring of 1927 the AAUP had begun its investigation, the local press had exacerbated tensions, and Gottschalk had been dismissed as disloyal and disruptive. Gottschalk's position during the affair was ultimately vindicated in the AAUP's publication of events surrounding the case.
By the spring of 1927, when faculty-administration relations were at their lowest point at the University of Louisville, the University of Chicago opened negotiations with Gottschalk. He joined the faculty as associate professor of modern European history in the fall of 1927 and thereby began an association which would last almost half a century. Gottschalk's arrival in Hyde Park coincided with that of the University's new President, Robert Maynard Hutchins.
Prior to Hutchins' taking office at Chicago, the University had begun to formulate reorganization plans. These plans materialized under Hutchins' leadership, and by 1933 the innovative “Chicago Plan” was drawing national attention. The subsequent streamlined divisional structure posed problems for the Department of History, however. Some faculty members believed that Clio's proper domain was the Social Sciences, while others insisted she be classified with the Humanities. Professor Gottschalk, who had no strong feelings on that particular issue, entered the fray only after Ronald S. Crane, Acting Chairman of the Senate Committee on History and Professor of English, suggested that the
Department be dissolved, with historians joining other more specialized departments such as economics, sociology, etc. Crane's memorandum, “The Organization of History in a University,” sparked a lively debate within the University community on the nature of history and the proper realm of historians. The History Department's response was drafted primarily by Gottschalk, and it comprises a clear statement by a twentieth-century historian on the historian's art at a critical point in its development.
Gottschalk's association with the University of Chicago began in the fall of 1927, when he joined the Department of History as an associate professor of modern European history. Although only twenty-eight at the time, Gottschalk, in his publications, had already delineated those subjects which were to engage his attention throughout his career. These topics included the era of the French revolution, the significance of individual motivation in history, and historiography. Gottschalk illuminated these themes in his chef d'oeuvre, a six volume biography of the Marquis de Lafayette. His work on this project began shortly after he arrived at the University of Chicago, and he was working on the seventh volume at the time of his death.
Gottschalk's prodigious published work and his excellence in the classroom were soon recognized by his colleagues, and along with numerous honors came increasing responsibilities within the University community and in the rapidly growing historical organizations. His promotion to full professor at the University in 1935 was quickly followed by a term as Chairman of the History Department (1937-42).
From 1929 to 1943 he served as assistant editor of the Journal of Modern History, which was followed by three years as acting editor. In 1959 Gottschalk was awarded the Gustavus F. and Ann M. Swift Distinguished Service Professorship of History (Emeritus 1965-75). An active member of the American Historical Association, Gottschalk was elected President of that organization in 1953, and throughout his life he channeled his energies into myriad other professional activities, ranging from lectures throughout the world to a role as one of the founders of the American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies.
Professor Gottschalk's first decade at the University of Chicago also brackets the first phase of activity by the Social Sciences Research Council, which was organized by the Rockefeller Foundation in 1923. Gottschalk received his first grant from the SSRC soon after he accepted the appointment at the University, and that organization financed much of the next fifty years of research on the Lafayette biography. A Guggenheim fellowship for 1928-29 had enabled Gottschalk to gather research material in France, and the first volume of his biography was published by the University of Chicago Press in 1935.
In addition to the administrative and research work which Gottschalk undertook at the University during this period, he established an outstanding reputation for his teaching skills. During the 1930s Gottschalk, William T. Hutchinson and James Cate developed an historical methods course which became known as the “Laboratory Course in History.” Years later, when the Department established a fellowship fund in Gottschalk's name, numerous students recalled this course in letters to Gottschalk, and repeatedly mentioned his “vivid” lecture style. Herman Kogan's letter to his mentor in 1973 perhaps best characterized other comments about Gottschalk as teacher: “I was, in an important sense, educated rather than merely instructed.”
Three years after his arrival in Chicago Gottschalk married Fruma Kasden, a concert pianist in Europe prior to her arrival in the United States, and later Professor of Russian Language and Literature at the University of Chicago. Two sons were born during the 1930s; Alexander (March, 1932) and Paul Abo (1939-1977), formerly associate professor of English literature at Cornell.
Perhaps no period better illustrates Gottschalk's ability to integrate his scholarship and activities outside the Department of History than the 1940s. While work on the Lafayette biography progressed, Gottschalk became deeply involved in war-related service, Jewish activities, and the ongoing dialogue within his profession on the nature of historical inquiry.
On October 6, 1943 Professor Gottschalk received a call from Major Frank Monaghan of the War Department. Monaghan had been professor of history at Yale before the United States entered World War II, and he now asked Gottschalk to serve on a “Committee of Historians to Analyze and Appraise Current Conditions and Prospective Developments in Germany,” For the next three months Gottschalk shuttled to and from Washington and consulted with fellow historians Carl Becker, Arthur C. Cole, Henry Steele Commager, Elias A. Lowe, Dumas Malone, Benjamin Schmidt, J. Duane Squires, and Edward Meade Earle. The purpose of the study was to give the army an estimate of probable German reaction to continued Allied pressure. The work of this “Secret Committee of Historians,” as it was called, was not publicized until 1946.
Throughout his life Gottschalk devoted considerable time and energy to public lectures, often on topics relating directly to his scholarly expertise: revolution, Franco-American relations, historiography, and so forth. But during the 1940s he increasingly lectured outside the classroom about post-war international relations.
In 1942, because of his interest in the subject, he accepted the chairmanship of the Chicago branch of the Universities Committee on Postwar International Problems. This committee had begun as a national organization under the auspices of the World Peace Foundation, and was directed by Ralph Barton Perry of Harvard University. Like many organizations established during the war, the purpose of this group was to provide a forum for academicians to discuss problems of the post-war world, with the hope of influencing public opinion. Though not as visible in this internationalist movement as other U of C faculty (such as Quincy Wright or William F. Ogburn), Gottschalk nonetheless kept the Chicago branch alive from March through October of 1943.
The Second World War also kindled a vigorous involvement in Jewish questions-both in his addresses from the lectern and in his increasing commitments to Jewish organizations. Essays which he contributed to various Jewish periodicals in the 1940s reveal an awareness of the impact which the American xenophobic reaction of the 1920s had upon the Jewish community. Gottschalk characterized his early teaching career (1920-40) as a period of pronounced anti-Semitism within the United States. In particular, Gottschalk reflected upon the quandary of academic Jews brought up in this environment, and their consequent ambiguous relationship to Jewish culture. Beginning in the 1930s Gottschalk registered his concern through B'nai B'rith, taking special interest in the Hillel program. During the forties he served as chairman of the Conference on Jewish Relations and president of the Board of Jewish Education. His remarks on this topic illustrate the internationalist feelings which motivated many of his activities during and after the Second World War:
So much Jewish money has gone into negative spending -to keep Jews trained in the traditional religion; to counteract anti-Semitism; to carry on charitable enterprises that the state and non-sectarian philanthropic organizations could, would, and should carry on. But that kind of spending adds little or nothing to Jewish life. They are defenses-worthy defenses perhaps, but defenses none the less. We need something to broaden our understanding, to add to our knowledge, to fit Jewish history into world history, to widen our outlook upon others and the outlook of others upon us, to discover not so much what the Jew had done for the Jew as what the Jew has done for the world and the world for the Jew.
The interest in historical inquiry and its methodology which was evident in Gottschalk's defense of the History Department in 1934 persisted throughout his career. When the historical profession went through a period of intense self-examination during the 1940s and ‘50s Gottschalk was again in the midst of the discussion. His presidential address to the American Historical Association in December, 1953 can be read as a sequel to his response to the Crane memo twenty years before. Frankly autobiographical, Gottschalk entitled the speech ‘A Professor of History in a Quandary.” In this address, Gottschalk explained why he ‘found it hard to concede...that the study of history is of interest only to other historians, if to them, unless it contributes to the development of national awareness, satisfies curiosity about recent or local events, or titillates the literary sensibilities.” The same issue enticed Gottschalk into serving as a member of the Social Science Research Council's conference on “Trends in Research in American History” (1942-46), on that same organization's Board of Directors in 1956, and on its Committee on Historical Analysis in 1958. Through his teaching, writing, and participation in such organizations, Gottschalk repeatedly addressed himself to the question of the social responsibility of the historian.
This unflagging interest in historiography, coupled with his decision to do what he could to assist postwar world unity and international harmony prompted Gottschalk to accept a position as one of the editors of the Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (SCHM)-a project which was truly international in scope. The need for a history of mankind, freed from the “misinformation and national biases” of traditional textbooks, was first articulated at a conference of Ministers of Education held in London during World War II. During the late 1940s the outlines of such a project were sketched out under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). SCHM eventually involved hundreds of scholars from numerous disciplines. Gottschalk joined the project as co-author and editor of Volume IV in 1951. Although the original plan had called for publication of six volumes by 1957, Volume IV was not published until 1969. The difficulties inherent in an experiment of this kind are amply recorded in the Gottschalk papers.
While the writing international history plagued Professor Gottschalk for over fifteen years, this work, coupled with other publications and an extensive teaching and lecture schedule brought him numerous honors and increased his responsibilities within the various professional associations. Professor Gottschalk was twice awarded a Guggenheim Fellow-ship (1928-29 and 1954-55) and, in 1953, the French government named him a Chevalier in the Legion of Honor. In addition, he received a Fulbright award for 1954-55, became a fellow at the Center for Advanced study of the Behavioral Sciences (1957-58), and was awarded a $10,000 prize in 1960 by the American Council of Learned Societies for “outstanding past achievements in the field of humanities.”
Gottschalk's retirement from the University of Chicago in 1965 was followed by eight more years of teaching as Professor of History at the University of Illinois Chicago Circle Campus and, from 1969 to 1975, service as Associate Director of the Office of the University Honors Program at that institution. In addition, he devoted considerable attention to the formation of a new, interdisciplinary organization -the American Society of Eighteenth Century Studies. And, a “friend of Lafayette” to the end, Gottschalk helped to edit the massive Lafayette: a guide to the letters, documents and manuscript in the United States,15 a project begun in 1970 at Cornell University. Gottschalk was still at work on this project at the time of his death in March, 1975.
Gerim (sometimes spelled Qerim) Panarity was the editor of the first Albanian-American newspaper in the United States, Dielli ("The Sun"). Taking on the position in the 1940s, he remained there for nearly 25 years, until his retirement in 1963. Started in 1909 by the Society of Besa-Besen in Boston, Dielli is now the oldest continuously-published Albanian language newspaper in the world. In 1912, the Pan-Albanian Federation of America, Vatra ("The Hearth") was formed, becoming one of the most influential voices in the movement for Albanian independence. Dielli became Vatra’s main organ for fostering Albanian nationalism.
Gerim Panarity was dedicated to the cause of Albanian independence his entire life. As a young man in 1911, Panarity left the United States for Albania, to fight with Memet and Faik Konitza for liberation from the Ottoman Empire. He eventually returned to the United States to complete his education, attending the Hitchcock Free Academy in Brimfield, Massachusetts. He graduated from Clark University in Worcester, Massachusetts in 1926, receiving the Washington Franklin Medal for excellence in history. During World War II, Panarity broadcast through the Voice of America in Albania, encouraging Albanian resistance to the Axis powers. He was also instrumental in post-war efforts to send food, clothing and medicine to the country.
Throughout his life, Panarity published numerous articles and books on the subject of Albania. In 1925, he published an article in Current History entitled, "Albania’s Latest Revolution." He was also chief author of the WPA Federal Writers’ Project book The Albanian Struggle in the Old World and the New. In 1957, he published and edited the collection Albania: The Rock Garden of Southeastern Europe and Other Essays. He published a work on Metropolitan Fan Noli, a prominent Albanian-American leader with whom he was in active partnership through Vatra. He also contributed to such publications as The Globe and The Christian Science Monitor.
Gitel P. Steed was born Gertrude Poznanski in 1914, in Columbus, Ohio, to Sara Auerbach and Jakob Poznanski. Her mother was a native of Columbus and her father, a businessman, immigrated from Poland. Shortly after her birth, Steed family moved to the Bronx, New York. She eventually attended Waleigh High School, and as a teenager adopted the Yiddish name Gitel.
In 1932 Gitel entered New York University (NYU), majoring in banking and finance, but dropped out after her first year. She later returned to NYU and in 1938 received her B.A. degree with honors in sociology and anthropology. While attending NYU Gitel lived in Greenwich Village where she developed friendships with many including the painter Rafael Soyer. She is the subject of at least two paintings by Soyer, "Girl in a White Blouse," 1932, which now hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and "Two Girls," 1933, which is in the collections of the Smart Museum of Art, on the campus of the University of Chicago. It was at this same time that Gitel met her future husband, the artist Robert Steed.
In 1938, with financial support arranged by Ruth Benedict, she entered graduate school in anthropology at Columbia University, where she studied under Benedict for three years. During this time Gitel undertook the first two of four ethnological projects that marked her career in anthropology. The first of these projects, under the direction of Ruth Benedict, she conducted among the Blackfoot Indians in Montana. Then, from 1939 to 1941 she worked with Vilhjalmur Stefannsson on Inuit in Greenland, studying hunter-gatherer diet and subsistence patterns. This was to be the basis of her dissertation, but she never completed the Greenland project and only much later (1969) completed her dissertation, basing it on her India research. In 1941 she left Columbia and worked until 1943 as the senior editor of information at Yale University's Institute of Human Relations.
In 1944 she was invited to join the Jewish Black Book Committee. A group of writers and researchers supported by the World Jewish Congress and other anti-fascist Jewish organizations, this committee documented in detail the Nazi death campaign against Jews in Europe during World War II. The committee compiled papers subsequently published as The Black Book: The Nazi Crime Against the Jewish People (1946). Gitel contributed a 130-page section called "Strategies of Decimation" in which she documented Nazi Germany's policies and techniques of extermination.
In 1945 and again in 1947 she taught at Hunter College in New York. In 1946 she taught at Fisk University and there edited the journal Race Relations. In 1947 she married Robert Steed, and in 1953 gave birth to their only child, Andrew Hart Steed.
She began her third ethnological project in 1947 when she was invited to join the Columbia University Research in Contemporary Cultures Project. In this project, co-directed by Ruth Benedict and Margaret Mead, Steed's assignment was to work among Chinese immigrants in New York City. Some of the results of Steed's work were published in Mead and Metraux, The Study of Culture at a Distance (1953).
After a similar China project had to be canceled, Steed formulated her fourth ethnographic project, a field study in India. Funding was received through a grant from the Department of the Navy and Steed was appointed Director of the Columbia University Research in Contemporary India Project. Upon her return to the U.S. from India in 1951, Steed presented her findings in several seminars. The most in-depth of these seminars was a lecture series, run by Abram Kardiner, that she gave at Columbia University in 1953-1954. Due to a disagreement between Steed and Kardiner, the funding for the India project was discontinued.
Steed joined the faculty of Hofstra College in New York in 1962. While teaching at Hofstra, she completed her dissertation at Columbia University, "Caste and Kinship in Gujarat: The Social Use of Space" (1969). In 1970 she returned to Kasandra for four months, with her husband, at which time she interviewed many of her old informants about social change in the village. Steed remained on the faculty of Hofstra University until she died in 1977, at the age of 63.
The India field project was a team effort carried out between 1949 and 1951 in three different villages in northwestern and north central India. The primary research team included Steed, as Project Director; an anthropology graduate student, James Silverberg; a British psychiatrist, G. Morris Carstairs; and Steed's husband, Robert Steed. Silverberg's wife Donna also joined the team for some time, as did an assistant researcher, Cecil B. Massey. They were joined in India by a team of Indian interpreters and researchers. These included Bhagvati Masher and Kantilal Mehta, who worked as interpreters; Nandlal Dosajh, a psychologist; N. Prabhudas, an economist who conducted the land utilization survey; and Jerome D'Souza as cook. In the second year of research, the team also included an Indian assistant, Tahera, as well as Americans Grace Langley and John Koos. The three villages were "Kasandra" in Gujarat state, "Nawabpur" in Uttar Pradesh, and "Deoli" in Rajasthan. The villages were referred to by these pseudonyms throughout the project. Steed worked primarily in Kasandra for one year (1950). She started work in Nawabpur as well but had to cut her stay there short because of illness. James Silverberg worked in both Kasandra (1950) and in Nawabpur (1951), staying in each place for one year. Carstairs worked in Sujarupa village for Steed, 1949-1950. (Carstairs did separate research in Deoli in 1951-1952 and wrote "The Twice-Born" (1957) about it.)
Steed and her team of researchers made use of a variety of fieldwork methods, gathering data both on individual psychology and on social institutions. Most of their data on individual psychology they derived from detailed life histories collected from a sample of informants. These life histories comprised long sets of free-ranging interviews that were designated "personal narration," a battery
of psychodiagnostic tests (whose validity they subsequently questioned and dismissed), as well as watercolors and drawings by both adults and children. Data on social institutions were collected through survey methods as well as participant observation. They completed thorough surveys on land tenure and economic relations, and collected data on economic, political, religious, kinship, and caste organization.
Steed formulated the project within the broader agenda of culture and personality studies in anthropology. The theoretical and methodological agenda of culture and personality studies was to study the relation between individual personality and the socio-cultural context of their enculturation. Steed was interested in studying the extent to which Indian social institutions determined individual behavior and personality. Conversely, she also asked if innate psychological or personal aspects influenced institutions. She analyzed both the cultural and the psychological aspects of character formation and was interested in where these two aspects met.
In order to judge the relation of social institutions to personality formation, the researchers required a basis for comparison, and thus they chose three villages with different institutional frameworks. Kasandra and Deoli were predominantly Hindu villages, while Nawabpur was predominantly Muslim. Each of the three villages had a different land tenure system and political history as well as being linguistically distinct.
Emil J. Gumbel, (1891-1966), a mathematical statistician, was one of the many German intellectuals who opposed the Nazi regime and fled their homeland with the hope that democratic government in Germany could be restored through their efforts abroad. The Gumbel papers reflect his associations with fellow anti-Nazis, and their activities to help their homeland recover from the devastation wrought by the Third Reich. Gumbel's early life was spent in Munich where he studied economics, engineering, and actuarial science as well as mathematics and statistics. He joined the faculty of Heidelberg University in 1922 and during the next decade became widely known for his political writings as well as his scientific work. His political views were largely the result of a determined pacifism acquired during his service in the First World War. Through the 1920's he wrote several books and articles which exposed the militaristic goals and political intimidation of right-wing elements whose influence was then growing in Germany, especially the Freikorps and the young National Socialist Party. As a result of his investigations Gumbel was dismissed from the Heidelberg faculty when the Nazis came to power in 1933. He spent the next several years in France, teaching at the Universities of Paris and Lyons, then, upon the German invasion of France in 1940, Gumbel emigrated to New York City, where he obtained a position at the New School for Social Research.
Gumbel's knowledge of German political affairs enabled him to take an active part in the struggle against the Nazis. The papers record that he was frequently consulted by students, scholars, and government agencies, especially the Office of Strategic Services. Most of the correspondence in the collection is from the 1940's, during which period Gumbel continued to maintain his ties with former colleagues in Europe, North and South America. The papers include correspondence with several friends whom he helped escape the Nazis, and with such associates as Otto Lehmann-Russbuldt, president of the Deutsche Liga für Menschenrechte, and Paul von Schoenaich of the Deutsche Friedensgesellschaft. Gumbel's postwar concern for the reconstruction of Germany, the welfare of his countrymen, and his opposition to German rearmament are also documented in the papers by correspondence and such public statements as his "Erklärung gegen Deutsche Aufrüstung."
Gumbel continued to teach at the New School and other New York institutions until his death in 1966.
Eleanor Prescott Hammond (b. April 26, 1866, d. February 21, 1933) was an English professor and Chaucer expert who taught at the University of Chicago and Wellesley College before spending the majority of her career as an independent scholar. Hammond, known as Nellie to her family, was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, to Andrew Hill Hammond, an organ reed manufacturer, and Rhoda Maria (Barber) Hammond, a homemaker. Raised in Worcester, Hammond left the United States in her early twenties to study at the University of Leipzig.
Hammond graduated from Leipzig in 1891 and entered Oxford University, where she earned a B.A. with First-Class Honors in 1894. At Oxford, Hammond studied under English professor Arthur Sampson Napier, who served as a mentor through her early career. Hammond returned to the United States and completed a Ph.D. as a Graduate Fellow in English at the University of Chicago in 1898.
Hammond taught in the University of Chicago English Department as a Docent in English Literature from 1898 to 1904, beginning her post in the same year as her colleague and lifelong research collaborator, English professor John Matthews Manly. During this period, she published several articles on Chaucer and textual analysis, and was one of two women, out of forty-three contributors, to publish in the first edition of Chicago-based journal Modern Philology in 1903. Hammond resigned from her position at the University of Chicago in 1904, and published her first book, Chaucer: A Bibliographical Manual, in 1908. Hammond continued to live in Chicago, working as a school teacher, until the late 1910s, when she moved to Boston.
In Boston, Hammond taught intermittently at Wellesley College, working primarily as an independent scholar of Late Medieval Period English, French, and Italian poetry. Hammond published extensively through the 1920s. In addition to numerous articles, she authored a translation of Dante’s Inferno and a survey of Chaucer’s influence on English poetry. Hammond conducted multiple research trips to England to examine manuscripts in the 1910s and 1920s and corresponded frequently with fellow scholars, including University of Chicago English professors John Manly and Edith Rickert and French professor Thomas Atkinson Jenkins. She served as a contributor to the University of Chicago’s Chaucer Project, providing notes, manuscript transcriptions, and drafts of her writing. At the time of her death, Hammond was a member of the Modern Language Association and the Société des Anciens Textes Français.
Described by the sixth President of Wellesley College, Ellen Fitz Pendleton, as a scholar of national reputation, Hammond is considered a foundational figure in Chaucer scholarship. Her 1908 Bibliographical Manual was one of the first attempts to record everything known about Chaucer, blending an organized and detailed bibliography with summaries of contemporary scholarly opinion, her own critiques, and reprints of difficult to access texts. The first to identify and link a set of manuscripts transcribed by the same copyist, Hammond lends her name to the “Hammond scribe” and also to the “Hammond group,” which she led in identifying key networks in a series of 15th-century manuscripts during her time at Oxford. Her last book, English Verse Between Chaucer and Surrey, is an early application of socio-cultural theory to late medieval period English literature. Hammond’s engagement with theorists like Thorstein Veblen and ideas of the role of social ferment influenced later Chaucer scholars. Much of Hammond’s innovative approach has been credited to her decision to work outside the academy, which allowed her the independence to explore fresh avenues of analysis and critique.
Hammond died in Boston, Massachusetts, at the age of 66 on February 21, 1933.
Winfield Scott Hancock was an officer in the US army and the Democratic nominee for the 1880 presidential race. Hancock was born on February 14, 1824 in Montgomery Square, Pennsylvania, to Benjamin Franklin Hancock, a public school teacher and lawyer, and Elizabeth Hoxworth Hancock. Hancock also had a twin brother, Hilary Baker Hancock.
Hancock began his education at Norristown Academy, a private preparatory school, but was moved to public schools when they arrived in Norristown in the 1830s. In 1840, Hancock was nominated by a local Congressman, Joseph Fornance, to attend the US Military Academy at West Point. Despite his eventual reaching of the rank of Major General, Hancock was an average student and graduated 18th out of his class of 25.
His role in the military spanned the majority of Hancock’s life. From his graduation from West Point in 1844 until his death in 1886, military service defined, in large part, Hancock’s activities and contributions to the nation. He participated, as a member of the infantry, or led, in his roles as officer of various rank, ten battles, which took place during both the Mexican-American War and the American Civil War. Of note, Hancock served as a corps commander at the Battle of Gettysburg. In a famous strategic move, Hancock sacrificed the 1st Minnesota regiment by sending it against a Confederate brigade. While the 1st Minnesota lost 87% of its men, the move bought time to organize the Union defensive line and secure a victory for the day.
During his military service, Hancock met a woman named Almira (Allie) Russell and married her on January 24, 1850, in St. Louis. Allie gave birth to two children: Russell, in 1850, and Ada, in 1857. Unfortunately, both children died before their parents.
After his wartime service in the military, Hancock continued his path of public service, carrying out the orders of President Johnson, followed by President Grant. Hancock’s political interest grew during his posting in New York, encouraging him to focus his ambition on the 1880 presidential election. Hancock received the democratic nomination, but lost to Republican candidate James A. Garfield.
Hancock continued his service both in the military, leading the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States, a veteran organization, and in private life, becoming president of the NRA. Hancock’s service and participation in these groups continued until his death in 1886 in New York.
In 1902 the University of Chicago saw the need to construct a permanent central library. Plans for the new library were underway when the university’s first President, William Rainey Harper, passed away in 1906. To honor his service to the university, it was decided that the new library would be dedicated to his memory. Construction began in 1910 when the first cornerstone was laid. The building was completed in June of 1912, when the first dedication ceremony took place. Harper Memorial Library served as the main library for the university until the Regestein Library opened in September of 1970. At this time, Harper Library and Wiebolt Hall (originally constructed in 1928) were renovated to preserve their unique architecture and make them better able to meet the university’s growing needs. The rededication ceremony in 1973 marked the completion of these renovations and the transformation of the Harper Memorial Library from the university’s main library to the new College Center, designed to be the distinctive home for the undergraduate College.
Father of William Rainey Harper. Born April 29, 1823 in the vicinity of Canonsburg, Washington County, Pennsylvania. Moved with his family to a farm near New Concord, Muskingum County, Ohio about 1830. Married Ellen Elizabeth Rainey of Cambridge, Ohio. Five children were born to them, William Rainey, Samuel, Robert Francis, James and Mary. He died in Chicago at the home of his son William in July of 1905.
The Rev. William Eleazar Barton (1861-1930) was one of the early twentieth century's most prominent writers and lecturers on the life of Abraham Lincoln. Born in Sublette, Illinois, in the same year Lincoln assumed the presidency, Barton grew up in an environment heavily influenced by reverence for Lincoln. After pursuing undergraduate studies at Berea College in Kentucky, Barton earned his divinity degree from the Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1890. He served parishes in Tennessee, Ohio, and Massachusetts before becoming the pastor of the First Congregational Church of Oak Park, Illinois, a position he held until his retirement in 1924. Four years later, Barton accepted an appointment as lecturer at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, where he also organized and served as pastor of the Collegeside Congregational Church.
Barton's work as a writer produced a number of denominational manuals for church organization and a series of books presenting the wisdom and parables of a character he named Safed the Sage. For the last ten years of his life, however, Barton was best known to the public as a prolific author and lecturer on Abraham Lincoln
John Milton Hay was born in Salem, Indiana in 1838. While clerking in his uncle's Springfield, IL law office in 1859, Hay met Abraham Lincoln. At the urging of John Nicolay, Lincoln's private secretary, Hay was appointed to the personal staff of the President-Elect and accompanied him to Washington, D.C. in 1860. Hay served as a secretary to Lincoln until the President's death in 1865. Following Lincoln's assassination, Hay remained in diplomatic service, serving in lower level posts throughout Europe between 1865 and 1870. From 1879 until 1881, he served as Assistant Secretary of State under President Rutherford B. Hayes. In 1897, Hay was appointed Ambassador to Great Britain by President William McKinley. His tenure coincided with the Spanish-American War, and Hay was instrumental in negotiating the Treaty of Paris (1898), which concluded the hostilities and eventually led to U.S. control of the Philippines. Hay served as Secretary of State from 1898 until his death in 1905, under Presidents McKinley and Theodore Roosevelt. During this time, he articulated the Open Door policy toward China, by which the great powers agreed not to partition the country and to compete freely for trade. He was also instrumental in guiding government policy during the Boxer Rebellion of 1900. Later, Hay negotiated the Hay-Pauncefote treaties with Great Britain (1901), which ultimately paved the way for the construction of the Panama Canal by the United States. Hay died on July 1, 1905 in Newbury, New Hampshire.
In addition to his diplomatic work, Hay was also a journalist and an author of poetry and prose. He wrote, with John Nicolay, the 10 volume biography of Lincoln: Abraham Lincoln: A History (1890). Additionally, he edited Lincoln's Complete Works (1894).
Harold Clayton Urey was born on April 29, 1893 in Walkerton, Indiana. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in Zoology from the University of Montana in 1917 and a Ph.D. in Chemistry from the University of California in 1923. Following postgraduate work at Niels Bohr's Institute for Theoretical Physics, he taught at Johns Hopkins University, and was appointed Associate Professor in Chemistry at Columbia University in 1929. In 1934 he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery of deuterium. He continued to research isotopic chemistry, and particularly the separation of isotopes.
Between 1940 and 1945, Urey served as Director of War Research, Atomic Bomb Project, at Columbia University, where he contributed to the Manhattan Project. In 1945, he moved to the University of Chicago's Institute for Nuclear Studies, becoming the Martin A. Ryerson Professor in 1952. His work at University of Chicago made major contributions to the field of geochemistry. He later went on to positions at Oxford and University of California.
Following World War II, Urey advocated arms control and nuclear safety, joining the Union of Concerned Scientists. Later in his life, he was involved in the U.S. space program as an advisor and consultant.
Urey's publication include Atoms, Molecules and Quanta (1930, with A.E. Ruark), and The Planets (1952), as well as numerous papers. From 1933 to 1940, he was editor of the Journal of Chemical Physics.
Robert Herrick (1868-1938), novelist and professor of composition and literature, was born into the post-Civil War gentility of Cambridge, Massachusetts and died in the Virgin Islands, a member of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal government. Of old New England stock, he was also educated in New England. He attended the Cambridge High School and in 1885 entered Harvard, where his mother's cousin George Herbert Palmer was Professor of Philosophy. At Harvard he studied under such men as Francis James Child, George Lyman Kittredge, William James, and Barrett Wendell, and while still an undergraduate published his first stories in the Harvard Advocate and Harvard Monthly. He was associated, either in friendship or through participation in the Monthly or the Mermaid Club, with such men as Philip Abbot, George Rice Carpenter, Jefferson Fletcher (who was to be his brother-in-law), Norman and Hutchins Hapgood, Bernard Berenson, George Pierce Baker, George Santayana, William Vaughn Moody, and Robert Morss Lovett.
After graduation from Harvard in 1890, Herrick taught composition and literature at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1893, he accepted an appointment at the University of Chicago, where his cousin by marriage, Alice Freeman Palmer, was already established as the University's first Dean of Women. Here he developed a writing program similar to that taught at Harvard by A. S. Hill and Barrett Wendell, and was instrumental in persuading Robert Morss Lovett and William Vaughn Moody to join the English faculty.
In 1894, Herrick married his first cousin, Harriet Peabody Emery. The marriage was dissolved in 1916; and one son, Philip Herrick, survived his parents. In 1899, the Herricks acquired a lot at 5735 Lexington (now University) Avenue and in 1900, engaged Hugh M. Garden to design a home for them. The local press, chafing over Herrick's realistic descriptions of Chicago in The Web of Life (1900), ridiculed the project as intended to educate the taste of those accustomed to Chicago's "vulgarity;" but the house (now Calvert House) has come to be regarded as an important precursor of the "Prairie School" of architecture. In 1913, Herrick purchased a house and land in York Village, Maine; and this he regarded as his permanent home.
From 1909 to 1923, when he resigned his professorship, Herrick spent only part of each year at the University, the other part writing and traveling. In 1935, he was appointed Government Secretary for the Virgin Islands.
During his lifetime, he published three collections of short stories and twenty-one novels, several textbooks, and a study of World War I. He also wrote frequently for periodicals: short stories (several early ones published under the pseudonym of Austin Smith), literary and political essays, book reviews and editorials. In addition, during the period of World War I, he wrote a regular column for the Chicago Tribune.
Thomas Hilliard taught saxophone, clarinet, and flute in Chicago, IL. Hilliard graduated from DePaul University and was involved in name bands and acts, records, jingles, suburban jazz festivals, and broadcasts featured on ABC, CBS, NBC, and WGN.
Before European settlement, the Chicago area functioned as a trade center for various Native American nations, such as the Potawatomi, Myaamia (Miami), and Illiniwek Confederacy nations. Other nations that lived in this region were the Ottawa, Sauk, Ojibwe, Kiikaapoi (Kickapoo), Mascouten, Wea, Delaware, Winnebago, Menominee, and Mesquakie (Fox) nations. The first non-native settler in Chicago was Jean Baptiste Point du Sable, a Haitian from the French colony of Saint-Domingue, who by 1790 had established a trading settlement near the Chicago River. After several wars and raids between Myaamia and Iroquois nations, in the late 18th century the Ojibwe and Potawatomi nations took control over the Chicago area. It was ultimately the Potawatomi nation that, with the Treaty of Chicago in 1833, ceded their remaining lands in Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan to the American government.
Twenty years later, Paul Cornell, a lawyer, real estate spectator, and cousin of the founder of Cornell University, purchased 300 acres of land between 51st and 55th street. Cornell had envisioned creating a residential neighborhood for Chicago businessmen and their families and quickly Hyde Park became that suburban retreat. In 1861, Hyde Park was incorporated as an independent township, called Hyde Park Township, and its boundaries were extended south from 39th to 63rd Streets to 138th Street and west to State Street.
Woodlawn, previous a part of the Hyde Park Township, is a neighborhood south of Hyde Park extending north to 60th Street, south to 67 Street, and west to King Drive. The first non-native settlers of Woodlawn were Dutch farmers who arrived in the 1850s. These farmers were able to sell their produce to merchants via the Illinois Central Railroad, which in 1862 opened a station on 63rd Street.
Kenwood, also a former Hyde Park Township neighborhood, was settled in the 1850s by Chicago individuals who sought a respite from the city. The first of these residents was Dr. John A. Kennicott, who built a home near the Illinois Central Railroad tracks at 48th Street. Dr. Kennicott named his home Kenwood after his ancestral land in Scotland, and eventually the name Kenwood came to be applied to the land between 43rd Street and 51st Street, and west to Cottage Grove Avenue.
In 1889, Hyde Park Township, including the neighborhoods of Kenwood and Woodlawn, was annexed to the city of Chicago.
Though the University of Chicago was originally located in the Bronzeville neighborhood, on the northwest corner of 35th Street and Cottage Grove Avenue, through the efforts of the American Baptist Education Society and billionaire John D. Rockefeller, the university was moved to Hyde Park in 1890
In 1893, The World’s Columbian Exposition was hosted in Hyde Park-Kenwood and Woodlawn, which, alongside an influx of residents, brought increased attention and development to the neighborhoods. During this period, Hyde Park was an affluent white neighborhood governed by racially segregating covenants that prevented African Americans from purchasing or occupying property.
In the 1950s, Both Hyde Park-Kenwood and Woodlawn experienced racial tensions and declining housing conditions, which led to a “white flight” as middle class white families left the area. In response to deteriorating housing conditions and economic decline, during the 1950s and 1960s the University of Chicago sponsored an urban renewal plan. This plan involved demolishing and redeveloping entire blocks of buildings in disrepair. Significantly, substandard housing primarily populated by low-income African Americans was demolished and replaced, but these former residents could not afford to live in these newly developed areas. The goal of this renewal plan was to create an affluent but diverse community, and after this plan, the average income of Hyde Park increased sharply by 70 percent, but the population of African Americans decreased by 40 percent.
George Lillie Craik, a Scottish writer and literary critic, was born in Kennoway, Fife, Scotland in 1798 to William Craik and Paterson Lillie. One of Craik’s brothers was Scottish Hebraist and theologian, Henry Craik. George Craik was educated at the University of St. Andrews, and moved to London in 1824. Shortly after, in 1826, Craik married Jannette Dempster. Together they had a number of children, including novelist Georgiana Craik. In 1849, George L. Craik was appointed Professor of English Literature and History at Belfast. Craik died in 1866.
James Henry Leigh Hunt was an English critic, essayist, poet, and writer. Hunt was born in London on October 19, 1784 to Isaac Hunt and Mary Shewell who had fled the US because of their loyalist sympathies during the American Revolution. Hunt was educated at Christ’s Hospital in the UK. His first publication of poems was published in 1801. Between 1808 and 1821, Hunt occupied the editorship of a number of newspapers and magazines. During that time, he continued to write and publish literature and poetry. In 1809, Leigh Hunt married Marianne Kent. Together they had 10 children. Hunt later died on August 28, 1859.
At the age of thirty, Robert Maynard Hutchins was inaugurated as the fifth President of the University of Chicago. From 1929 until his retirement from the University in 1951, Hutchins remained the chief executive officer of the University.
Robert Maynard Hutchins was born on January 17, 1899 in Brooklyn, New York, to Anna Laura Murch and William James Hutchins, a Presbyterian minister, professor of theology, and eventual President of Berea College (Kentucky). Hutchins enrolled at Oberlin (where his father taught) in 1915 but discontinued his undergraduate studies in 1917 to serve with the Ambulance Corps of the U. S. Army. For his conduct, he was awarded the Croce di Guerra by the Italian government. He resumed his education at Yale in 1919, graduating in 1921. Following graduation, Hutchins married artist and writer Maude Phelps McVeigh. The couple moved to upstate New York where Hutchins taught at the Lake Placid School until 1923. Together, they had three children. The marriage ended in divorce in 1948. Hutchins was remarried in 1949 to Vesta Sutton Orlick, and adopted her daughter.
Hutchins' career at Yale was nothing less than meteoric. He graduated from the Yale Law School in 1925 while also serving as Secretary of the University since 1923. He joined the faculty of the Law School in 1925, becoming a full professor in 1927. Hutchins' vitality and intellectual agility led to his appointment first as Acting Dean (1927) and then as Dean (1928) of the Law School. While at Yale, he was instrumental in creating the Institute of Human Relations, an interdisciplinary center for the legal, medical, and sociological study of contemporary social problems.
Hutchins' youth made his appointment as President of the University of Chicago something of a surprise, but according to Harold Swift, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, the search committee was concerned with finding an individual with the personality and the intellectual drive to fill the position. Hutchins' gregarious nature and his commitment to curriculum reform, evident at Yale, seemed to make him an ideal candidate to provide the kind of leadership and vision that the University had not had since President William Rainey Harper.
The initial years of Hutchins' administration were dramatic ones. He accepted and implemented plans for a general reorganization of the University that had been in the works since the administration of Ernest D. Burton (1923-25). These reforms were intended to simplify the administrative structure of the University, to promote interdisciplinary work among the faculty, and to redefine the undergraduate curriculum. The so-called "New Plan" or "Chicago Plan" created four graduate divisions—Humanities, Social Sciences, Physical Sciences, and Biological Sciences—and established a consolidated College as a separate division of the University. Additionally, Hutchins eliminated the University's varsity football program. Hutchins' major interest, however, was in the nature and goals of undergraduate education in general and the College in particular. Curricular reforms, with which his name has become more or less synonymous, emphasized the role of the College in providing general education grounded in philosophy and philosophical analysis. Impatient with the increasingly fine division of academic labor and the intensification of research specialization, Hutchins became an outspoken advocate of the value of general education. He lectured tirelessly on the meaning of college and seemed to relish his self-assumed role as a leading American educator.
Hutchins' candor and glibness, his self-confidence and (to some) his dogmatism were mixed blessings. The Walgreen investigations (1935) into possible subversive activities on the part of certain faculty at the University put Hutchins in the public eye as an eloquent defender of academic freedom against the claims of naive xenophobes. On the other hand, his style and opinions antagonized parts of the faculty who came to resent what they interpreted as arrogance and a sort of "party line" within the University. Their fears of Hutchins' power and their perception of the declining role of faculty governance at the University stood behind the Senate Memorial (1944) to the Board of Trustees. Protesting some of Hutchins' assertions about the role of the University in contemporary society, the Memorial coincided with widespread administrative reforms designed at least in part to more clearly define the respective roles of the President and the University Senate in the making of educational policy. Hutchins was appointed Chancellor of the University in 1945.
As a public figure, Hutchins championed a variety of issues and causes. Although he opposed America's entry into World War II, he cooperated with the government in the establishment of the Metallurgical Laboratory (1942) on campus as part of the Manhattan Project. Following the war, Hutchins was in the forefront of groups seeking to control the destructive potential of nuclear energy and to evaluate the broader implications of scientific research. He was sympathetic to the idea of a single world order (which he could trace to Thomas Aquinas) and in 1945 established, at the request of G. A. Borgese and Richard McKeon, the Committee to Frame a World Constitution. One year earlier he had been appointed chairman of the Commission on the Freedom of the Press. Funded by grants from Time, Inc. and the Encyclopædia Britannica (of which Hutchins had been a director since 1943), the Commission inquired into the nature, function, duties, and responsibilities of the press in America. It was particularly sensitive to the constraints on a free press in the contemporary world.
Controversial and opinionated, Hutchins served as President (and then as Chancellor) of the University longer than any other individual. He retired from the University in 1951 to assume an associate directorship of the Ford Foundation.
Hutchins tenure at the Ford Foundation underwent several metamorphoses. In 1954 he was appointed director of the Foundation's semi-independent fund, the Fund for the Republic. He reorganized the Fund in 1959 as the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, and moved its headquarters from New York City to Santa Barbara, California. He served as its chairman until 1974.
From 1943 to 1974, Hutchins was also chairman of the Board of Editors of Encyclopædia Britannica and a director for Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Hutchins spoke and published frequently. He authored numerous books including No Friendly Voice (1936), The Higher Learning in America (1936), Education for Freedom (1943), The University of Utopia (1953), Some Observations on American Education (1956), and The Learning Society (1968).
Hutchins died in Santa Barbara, California on May 14, 1977.
The Congress for Cultural Freedom was founded in 1950 as an anti-communist advocacy organization whose primary intention was to influence left leaning intellectuals and cultural leaders. Based in Paris, the CCF fielded dozens of offices across the world, and supported anti-communist cultural activities through publications, conferences, seminars, and funding of researchers, authors, poets, and artists. It included famous public intellectuals and artists such as Bertrand Russell, Karl Jaspers, Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. and Tennessee Williams.
In the 1960s, it became publicly known that the Congress for Cultural Freedom received funds from the CIA and that some members were CIA operatives. In response to this controversy, the Congress for Cultural Freedom was reorganized as the International Association for Cultural Freedom. Nicolas Nabokov, president, and John C. Hunt, executive director of the CCF, both resigned and Shepard Stone was named president of the IACF.
The IACF retained the mission and organizational structure of CCF under its new leadership. However, as funding for the IACF decreased during the 1970s and the nature of the Cold War changed, the scope of the organization decreased and by 1978 the last offices of the IACF had closed.
The International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences has met regularly around the world since the second World War. The Ninth Congress, held under the leadership of Professor Sol Tax in Chicago in 1973, hosted 4,000 scholars from more than 100 countries. In addition to the scholarly panels, the University of Chicago hosted the Youth for Mankind conference for high school students and cultural programs such an ethnographic opera by Gian Carlo Menotti and the American Folk Concert organized by Alan Lomax.
James Patrick Mahon, also known as "The O'Gorman Mahon," entered Irish politics in 1821, while still a student at Trinity College, Dublin. becoming (upon the death of his father) a J.P. for his native county, Clare. Around the time of his graduation from Trinity in 1826, he joined then newly-formed Catholic Association, headed by Daniel O'Connell. Mahon was one of the first to urge O'Connell to stand for Parliament from County Clare in the election of 1828. O'Connell's election marked the first time since the Glorious Revolution that a Catholic was elected to Parliament and ultimately seated.
The success of this undertaking inspired Mahon to try his luck as a candidate. He was elected in 1830, along with Major W. N. MacNamara, but was charged with bribery and unseated. (He was subsequently cleared of the charge.) When he again became a candidate in 1831, it was without the important support of O'Connell. O'Connell backed MacNamara; a rift between Mahon and O'Connell resulted, which was never to be mended. Mahon did, however, win the seat.
In 1835, Mahon began an extensive sojourn abroad. He traveled in a number of European countries, Africa, the East, and South America, before returning to Ireland in 1846. From 1847 to 1852, he again represented Clare. When he stood for re-election in 1852, Lord Fitzgerald defeated him. He thereupon resumed his foreign travels, becoming for a time a lieutenant in the Czar's army. From Russia, he wandered across China, India, Arabia, Turkey, and Austria; in the latter two countries, he served in military capacities. He returned to England in 1858, but soon left for South America, where he became involved in one of the many plans to construct a canal across Central America.
Mahon also spent several months in Peru. During his time there, he took an active interest in investigating the mysterious disappearance of Captain Lionel Lambert, commander of the British ship Vixen, on which Mahon had traveled. Mahon compelled the Peruvian government to investigate, and it was found that Lambert had been murdered. Mahon reported the findings to Lord Palmerston, whose acquaintance Mahon had cultivated during his second term in Parliament.
Mahon served in a number of military capacities while in South America, most of them honorary appointments. Legend has it that he was even made an archbishop in Brazil. Upon learning of the outbreak of civil war in the United States, Mahon went to fight on the side of the North. In 1866, he returned to Europe and was granted a colonelcy in a regiment of chasseurs by Louis Napoleon. Although Mahon's escapades have taken on a legendary quality, it is nonetheless clear that his foreign travels constitute one of the most interesting--if, unfortunately, not always well documented periods of his life.
In 1867, he proceeded to Berlin, where he became acquainted with Bismarck and the crown prince. He petitioned Bismarck for a concession to establish a joint-stock bank in Berlin, to be called the Anglo-Prussian Bank. Negotiations had begun in the autumn of 1863, while Mahon was still in South America.
Mahon returned to Ireland in 1871, and two years later took part in the Home Rule Conference founded by Isaac Butt. Through his association with the Home Rule Party during this period, Mahon became friends with Mitchell Henry and his family. Henry was a wealthy manufacturer from Manchester, who settled in County Galway and represented this county in Parliament as an advocate of Home Rule.
During this same period Mahon formed a friendship with Arthur Richard Wellesley, the second Duke of Wellington. Wellington's father, ironically, had strongly disapproved of the young O'Gorman Mahon's actions fifty years earlier during the campaign for O'Connell's election. Both Wellington and Mahon were in their seventies by the time they became friends. Wellington, in the spirit of his father, strongly disapproved of Mahon's Home Rule stand. Despite this difference, their friendship grew.
In 1879, Mahon was elected to Parliament from Clare as a Home Ruler. By this time, Isaac Butt's leadership of the Home Rule Party had become ineffective. As a result, Charles Stewart Parnell superseded Butt in the leadership of the party, though Butt remained nominal head. Butt died in the autumn of 1879, and was temporarily succeeded by William Shaw. The following year, when Disraeli dissolved Parliament and called for new elections, Mahon was returned. At a party meeting before Parliament met, Mahon proposed the election of Parnell as head of the party. Parnell defeated Shaw.
After Parliament was dissolved, Mahon had proposed to Shaw that Captain William O'Shea succeed Lord Francis Conyngham as the other representative from Clare. O'Shea was elected along with Mahon and a deep friendship developed between the two men.
In 1885, Mahon failed to obtain renomination in Clare. Many in his constituency felt the need for a younger representative in Parliament. Mahon succeeded, however, in a bid for office in 1887 as representative of Carlow. During this time also Mahon found himself distracted by a personal matter-a lengthy and unpleasant court case contesting the will of his son, St. John, who had died in 1884.
Mahon's health began to fail as he approached his ninetieth year. When his attendance in Parliament became irregular, Parnell and Justin McCarthy (leader of the party in Parnell's absence) requested that Mahon try to attend more frequently, especially when the party was to vote on an important issue. Mahon died in London on June 15, 1891. Shortly before his death, he publicly repudiated Parnell, with whom he had broken over the issue of the O'Shea divorce. Mahon was buried in the O'Connell circle in Glasnevin Cemetery on June 21, 1891.
The Mathematical Club was established January 5, 1893 in order to provide a forum for graduate students in mathematics. Papers were presented and discussed by the faculty of the Mathematics and Astronomy Departments, and, occasionally by graduate students and visiting scholars.
Fred H. Matthews, a professor of history at York University (Ontario) wrote a biography of sociologist Robert E. Park (1864-1944). The book was published in 1976 as Quest for an American Sociology: Robert E. Park and the Chicago School.
Robert L. McCaul, Jr. was born May 29, 1913 in Waltham, Massachusetts. He studied Classics at Boston College from 1929 to 1932 and then went on to Harvard College where he received his Bachelor's degree in English Language and Literature in 1935. McCaul completed a Master of Education degree at Harvard in 1937 and worked for several years in the Waltham public schools and then at the Laboratory School at the University of Chicago.
In 1940 McCaul married Isabel Ruth Sheehan. The couple had two sons, Robert L. III, Edward, and a daughter Margaret who died in 1974.
From 1946 to 1954 McCaul was Assistant Professor of English at the University of Chicago, and during that time also completed a PhD in History of Education at the University. In 1954 he received an appointment as Assistant Professor in the Department of Education, where he taught until retiring in 1978.
In addition to teaching, McCaul served on the Board of Editors of the School Review from 1962 to 1967 and as Vice-President and President of the History of Education Society from 1965 to 1967.
McCaul's research interests include the early history of American education, the life and work of John Dewey, minorities in American history and American education, power in American society, and the usefulness of newspapers for historical research. Notable publications include The Black Struggle for Public Schooling in Nineteenth Century Illinois, published in 1987, "Annotated List of Chicago Tribune Editorials on Elementary and Secondary Education in the U. S., 1852-1900," Annotated List of Chicago Tribune Editorials on Elementary and Secondary Education in the U. S., 1852-1971 (both with Peter DeBoer), and several articles on John Dewey and on education in Colonial Georgia.
McCaul died July 23, 1994 in Chicago.
Meteorology as an academic discipline at the University of Chicago began as an institute of the Department of Physics in 1940. In 1942, Carl-Gustaf Rossby organized an independent Department of Meteorology. Early work established the "Chicago School" of meteorology, and the department was the site of ground-breaking research through World War II. In 1961, the department merged with the Department of Geology, forming the Department of Geophysical Sciences.
Marvin Mirsky was born in New York City on May 31, 1923. He worked as a code breaker in the State Department Intelligence Division during World War II. After the war, he was a Fulbright scholar in Paris, France.
Mirsky taught at the University of Chicago from 1962-1992, focusing on courses in literature and critical thinking in the humanities department of the College as well as in the Basic Program of Liberal Education for Adults in the Graham School. He was interested in how literature deals with ethical questions, which fueled his co-development of the course Human Being and Citizen, an interdisciplinary course that is still offered as part of first-year general education at the University. Mirsky’s love for teaching also extended beyond university classrooms. Until his death in May 2014, Mirsky held informal classes and private discussion groups for adults in the greater Chicago community, most of which focused on contemporary literature, cinema, and theater. Mirsky also led a number of literary and theatre themed study tours across Europe and Canada.
Marvin Mirsky died in Chicago on May 20, 2014.
William Wilson Morgan was born on January 3, 1906, in Bethesda, Tennessee. His father and his mother were both home missionaries in the Southern Methodist Church, and Morgan's childhood was spent moving around following his father's lecture itinerary. His basic education came from his parents. In 1923, Morgan entered Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia. He was an excellent student in English and planned to become a teacher of literature. However, he was also a particularly good student in Physics and Mathematics. He impressed Professor of Physics and Astronomy Benjamin A. Wooten. Wooten had obtained a small, professional-quality refracting telescope for the university and Morgan soon began observing the sky.
In 1926, on Wooten's recommendation, Morgan started his graduate work at the Yerkes Observatory. Two years later he married Helen Barrett, daughter of astronomer Storrs B. Barrett, who was the secretary of the observatory. In June 1930, under the supervision of Otto Struve, he began a Ph.D. thesis on the spectra of A stars. Morgan completed his thesis and received his doctoral degree in December 1931. Despite the onset of the Great Depression and dark economic times, he was kept on the staff at Yerkes Observatory, though he remained in the same assistantship he had held as a graduate student. In the summer of 1932 he was promoted to instructor and in 1936 to assistant professor.
Morgan lived and worked at Yerkes Observatory for almost seventy years. An accomplished teacher and, for a period, editor of The Astrophysical Journal, Morgan's greatest achievements came from research. From the beginning of his work at Yerkes, Morgan's methods were grounded in the systematic organization of concrete data. Eschewing the then new field of theoretical astrophysics, he built his reputation as one of the greatest astronomers of the twentieth century with the morphological classification of stars based on stellar spectra. With Phillip Keenan and Edith Kellman, he created the MKK system for stellar classification, later refined to the MK system that remains in use today.
Morgan's work, though rigorous, was eclectic and improvisational, relying on his ability to wring significance from spectra that others could not interpret. In 1951, Morgan proved that the Milky Way Galaxy had spiral arms - a hypothesis proposed one hundred years before by Alexander. For this he received an unprecedented standing ovation from a meeting of the American Astronomical Society. His work was celebrated with many awards and honorary degrees, including membership in the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters and the Pontifical Academy of the Sciences.
In late 1951 or early 1952, Morgan suffered a nervous breakdown and was hospitalized for several months. Soon afterwards, he began to keep a journal recording his private thoughts and experiences. The collection contains almost 250 volumes of this journal, which Morgan wrote in regularly until 1990, when he seems to have begun to experience the effects of Alzheimer's Disease. In these journals, Morgan tries to psychoanalyze himself by following closely Freud's works as well as the works of other psychoanalysts and philosophers of the twentieth century. Also, the reader can find Morgan's own reflections, critiques and foundations to his corpus of work. For the astronomer the dividing line between science and art was blurry, and as proof of this he gives his own research.
In 1963, his wife Helen died. Morgan, his son and daughter, survived her. The emotional and professional implications for Morgan's life were devastating. In 1966, he married Jean Morgan, a teacher at the Rochester College in Chicago. He remained with Jean until his death in 1994. Jean strongly encouraged Morgan's artistic endeavors. In addition to his scientific work, Morgan never stopped taking photographs or writing about art in his journals. In one of his writings, Morgan states that his most important life works were his photography and journal. Morgan died in Chicago in 1994.
Thomas John Morgan was born in Birmingham, England, October 27, 1847, the son of Thomas John and Hannah (Simcox) Morgan. Educated at Sunday and evening schools, Morgan worked at the machinist trade during and after his schooling. On January 26, 1868, he married Elizabeth Chambers of Birmingham and in 1869 he and his bride migrated to the United States, where they settled in Chicago. Morgan continued to work as a machinist. Rising quickly in the ranks of the labor movement in his trade, Morgan became President of the Machinists’ Union of Chicago in 1874, the same year that he became a member of the Socialist (Workingman’s) Party. In 1875 Morgan was a delegate to the Chicago Trades Assembly, and four years later he represented the Chicago Trades Assembly before the Legislative Committee of Inquiry into the Conditions of Labor. In the same year (1879) Morgan represented the Socialists of Chicago before a Congressional Committee of Inquiry.
In the years 1877 to 1880 Morgan was active in organizing the Socialist Labor Party. During the same period he prepared Workshop and Factory laws, which he had presented before the Chicago City Council in 1879 and which were adopted by the Council and made a part of the Municipal Code of Chicago. In 1888 Morgan organized the Woman’s Alliance for Protection of Women and Child Workers. In the same year he became editor of the journal Trades Assembly. In conjunction with Mrs. Morgan he prepared a twenty-four page pamphlet concerning Chicago sweat shops, which was published by Trades Assembly in 1891. By that year, Morgan had risen to be chairman of the joint committee of all the labor organizations of Chicago. This position undoubtedly was influential in Morgan’s receiving the Socialist Labor nomination for mayor of Chicago in 1891.
Thomas Morgan was a member of a committee that was instrumental in securing the location of the 1893 World’s Fair at Chicago. After the site had been settled on, he represented the labor organizations of the United States before a Congressional committee at Washington, requesting that the Fair be open on Sundays.
After graduating from the Chicago Law College in 1895, Morgan was examined by the Superior Court of Illinois and admitted to the legal profession. He was chosen to be one of a committee of one hundred selected by the Civic Federation to recommend reforms in Chicago public schools. He became secretary of the National Campaign Committee, Social Democratic Party in 1900, the same year in which he was run as the Party’s nominee for State’s Attorney for Cook County, Illinois.
Morgan was a lecturer at the National Sociologists Convocation held at Lake Bluff, Illinois in 1900, and a delegate to the Socialist National conventions at Indianapolis in 1901 and Chicago in 1904 and 1908. In 1903 he was the Party’s nominee for City Attorney of Chicago, in 1903 and 1907 for judge of the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois, and in 1909 for United States Senator from Illinois.
Morgan’s offices within the Party itself included Chairman of the Illinois State Campaign Committee, 1904; member of the State Committee and Cook County Executive Committee, 1905; Chairman of the Cook County Central and Executive Committees, 1906; member of the Central and Executive Committees, 1907.
From 1909 until his death, Morgan was editor and publisher of The Provoker, a pocket-sized Socialist weekly. Morgan's other activities included being a member of the Grand Lounge and Deputy Grand Master of the Order of Sons of St. George, Illinois chapter, in 1904. Morgan died December 10, 1912.
Teresa Bandettini, often known by her Arcadian name, Amarilli Etrusca, was born in Lucca in 1763. Her parents, Benedetto Bandettini and Maria Alba Micheli, died when she was seven. Bandettini quickly achieved fame as a dancer in the theatrical world, but would gain more lasting fame as a composer of extemporaneous verse. While in Imola in 1789 she met the Lucchese Pietro Landucci, whom she would marry. After her marriage, she abandoned her dancing career for that of an improvisatrix, and held "Accademie d'improvvisazione" in which paying members of the audience proposed themes that she then elaborated extemporaneously in verse. Bandettini achieved fame throughout Italy and was so well-respected as to draw words of praise from Parini, Monti, Mascheroni, and Alfieri. Bandettini had four children, three girls who died young and a son, Francesco. She died in Lucca in 1837.
Bandettini was reportedly a learned woman who was known to read Dante backstage when she was not dancing. Sources cite her as an "improvisatrice commossa," capable of simultaneously moving her audience and becoming emotional herself. She resisted the idea of publishing her extemporaneous verse, preferring instead to publish poems that had been subject to a more lengthy elaboration (although a volume of her Rime estemporanee would eventually come out in 1801 and another in 1807). She published a two volume collection of Rime varie in 1786, followed by the 1788 publication of her Poesie diverse. She also published poemetti (La morte d'Adone, 1790) and tragedies (La Teseide, 1805; La caduta de' giganti, 1814; Rosmunda in Ravenna, 1827), and left behind fragments of Romantic tales.
Bandettini's name resurfaced in 2002 with the discovery of six lost sonatas dedicated to her by the young Niccolò Paganini.
Sources
s.v. "Bandettini, Teresa." In Dizionario biografico degli italiani. Vol. 5 (Bacca-Baratta). Rome: Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana, 1960-.
s.v. "Bandettini Landucci, Teresa." In Dizionario enciclopedico italiano. Vol. 2 (Bacce-Cas). Rome: Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana fondata da G. Treccani, 1961.
s.v. "Bandettini Landucci, Teresa." In Enciclopedia Biografica e Bibliografica "Italiana." Serie 6: "Poetesse e scrittrici." 2 vols. Rome: E.B.B.I. Istituto Editoriale Italiano, 1941.
s.v. "Bandettini Landucci, Teresa." In Enciclopedia italiana di scienza, lettere, ed arti. Vol. 6 (Balta-Bik). Rome: Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana fondata da G. Treccani, 1937.
Costa-Zalessow, Natalia. "Teresa Bandettini Landucci." In Scrittrici italiane dal XIII al XX secolo. Ravenna: Longo Editore, 1982. 187-192.
Biographical note provided by Margaret E. Kern, as seen in the Italian Women Writers database entry for Teresa Bandettini. http://www.lib.uchicago.edu/efts/IWW/BIOS/A0065.html
Samuel Harrison was born in Hartwell, Buckinghamshire, where his father was rector of the local church. On December 4, 1661, he was matriculated at Magdalen Hall, Oxford. In 1665 he received a baccalaureate from Wadham College, followed by a Master's degree in 1668. He became rector of Oving, Buckinghamshire in 1672. After ten years he was transferred to a position at Waddesdon, where he is recorded as continuing to serve as late as 1706.
Marshall Sahlins was born on December 27, 1930 in Chicago, Illinois. He graduated from the University of Michigan (M.A. 1952), and Columbia University (Ph.D. 1954).
Sahlins began his career at Columbia University, where he was a lecturer in anthropology from 1955 to 1957. In 1957, he moved to University of Michigan as assistant professor, and became professor of anthropology (1957-1974). In 1974, Sahlins joined the faculty at University of Chicago as professor of anthropology. He became Charles F. Grey Distinguished Service Professor in 1983.
Among Sahlins' many published works are: Social Stratification in Polynesia: A Study of Adaptive Variations in Culture (1958), Moala: Culture and Nature on a Fijian Island (1962), Stone Age Economics (1972), Culture and Practical Reason (1976), The Use and Abuse of Biology: An Anthropological Critique of Sociobiology (1976), Islands of History (1985), How Natives Think: About Captain Cook for Example (1995), and Culture in Practice: Selected Essays (2000).
Marshall Sahlins is currently Charles F. Grey Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and of Social Sciences at the University of Chicago.
Prior to the establishment of a Music Department in 1931, the University had formed its band, chorus, and orchestra and housed multiple music clubs. Numerous music performances had been organized and staged at the University of Chicago since the earliest years of its existence. These events include performances by the University’s own band and chorus, student-led music clubs, or prominent guest musicians and groups, local and international. In 1903, Leon Mandel Assembly Hall (Mandel Hall) opened its door to listeners for the first time with a concert by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and since became one of the most important historic spaces for music performances at the University. Bond Chapel and Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, built in 1926 and 1928 respectively, became other major venues for the University’s music programs. Recitals, chamber concerts, and operas performed in these spaces are well documented in the collection. Of special note is the frequent appearance of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, which had formerly been named after its founder Theodore Thomas, in Mandel Hall from 1904-1934.The Department of Music was established in 1931 as part of the Division of Humanities through a special gift from an anonymous donor. Following the department’s establishment, a University symphony orchestra was created during the academic year 1931-1932. The department’s first chair as well as the symphony orchestra director was the music scholar and composer Carl Bricken. In the following years and decades, the Department recruited such leading scholars and composers as Leonard B. Meyer, Edward Lowinsky, Ralph Shapey, and Howard Mayer Brown, and came to prominence in the 1960s as a major center of musical research and composition.The Department’s Performance Program involves choirs, orchestras, and ensembles, and aims at providing the students with opportunities to participate in a variety of music performances. Since the establishment of the University Symphony Orchestra, several other ensembles were formed within the Department’s Performance Program. They include the Collegium Musicum, Rockefeller Chapel Choir, Motet Choir, Contemporary Chamber Players (later to be named “Contempo”), and New Music Ensemble. The collection contains documents about the musical performances of these ensembles over the decades. Moreover, the Department of Music hosted many other programs featuring visiting musicians and orchestras, as well as lectures and conferences. The University of Chicago Chamber Music Series, founded in 1943, later grew into “The University of Chicago Presents” concert series with the mission of sharing world-class music through concerts and educational programs with audiences across Chicago and its surrounding suburbs. In the 1960s, the series came under the stewardship of the Department of Music at the University, where it has since resided. The University of Chicago Presents is also represented in the collection. The American Indian Press Association was a news-gathering organization devoted to increasing the participation of Native Americans in the creation and consumption of newspapers. Notable staff members included Rose Robinson, Charles Trimble, and Richard LaCourse. The AIPA was in operation from 1970 until 1976.
The AIPA records were held by the Native American Education Service (NAES) until 2008. Established in Chicago in 1974, NAES College aimed to improve the leadership of Native communities and to ensure that tribal knowledge, traditions and values play a major role in the higher education of Native students. Before closing its doors in 2007, NAES College offered a single degree, a Bachelor's of Arts in General Studies with an emphasis in Public Policy, and tribal knowledge, community service, community development and leadership.
The Native American Educational Services (NAES) College began the Community Board Training Project (CBTP) as a 2 ½ year program in 1979. The CBTP continued through 1983. During that time, the CBTP was structured to help organizations serving the Native American community to function more efficiently. With Louis Delgado as its director, CBTP sponsored workshops which focused on training in the concepts behind community service agencies, including effective management and technical skills such as planning fiscal management, improving public relations, filing, hiring and using computer technology. During the course of its existence, the program expanded and sought to provide resource materials to community organizations and to offer them technical assistance.
Established in Chicago in 1974, NAES College (Native American Educational Service) aimed to improve the leadership of Native communities and to ensure that tribal knowledge, traditions and values play a major role in the higher education of Native students. Before closing its doors in 2007, NAES College offered a single degree, a Bachelor's of Arts in General Studies with an emphasis in Public Policy, and tribal knowledge, community service, community development and leadership.
Established in Chicago in 1974, NAES College (Native American Educational Service) aimed to improve the leadership of Native communities and to ensure that tribal knowledge, traditions and values play a major role in the higher education of Native students. Before closing its doors in 2007, NAES College offered a single degree, a Bachelor's of Arts in General Studies with an emphasis in Public Policy, and tribal knowledge, community service, community development and leadership.
Robert W. Rietz (1914-1971) was an anthropologist known for his work among Native American populations in Iowa and North Dakota, as well as the highly-esteemed Director of the American Indian Center in Chicago, where he served from 1958 until his death. Rietz was a veteran of World War II and pursued graduate studies at the University of Chicago under the supervision of Sol Tax without having attended High School. In the summer of 1948, Rietz was one of the original six members of the “Fox Project” to be sent to Tama, Iowa, alongside Lloyd Fallers, Grace Gredys, Walter Miller, Davida Wolffson, and Lisa Redfield Peattie. In his mid-thirties and as one of the most experienced members in the group, Rietz left a long-lasting impression amongst his peers and the population he worked with. Gredys recalled Rietz as lacking “respect for authority, age, and all those great things,” but as a “serious person” that nurtured with his colleague Miller a “persona of wise-cracking.” Years after he left Tama, students from the University of Chicago sent to work on the Fox field school still registered inquiries about Rietz from people he had met years earlier.
After finishing his Master’s thesis at the University of Chicago in 1950, he moved with Robert Merrill to the Indian Reservation at Fort Berthold, North Dakota. The new Fort Berthold research project, devised as part of the “action anthropology” project, was meant to assist the members of the Three Affiliated Tribes (Hidatsa, Mandan, Arikara) in relocating from their lands following the construction of the Garrison Dam, approved in the late 1940s and concluded in 1953. While Merrill pursued a strict research project and left only a few months later, Rietz remained in the Reservation as the Agency’s “community analyst.” Two years later, he was designated the Agency’s “relocation officer.” Over the course of these four years, Rietz gained the respect of the different parties of the reservation, from the Indian community to the officers of the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs. In 1952, he refused to be transferred to the Sioux Cheyenne River reservation in South Dakota to start a new relocation project, stating that it was not his intention to help implement official policy on Indian Affairs that clashed with his own beliefs. Despite some reservations from fellow anthropologists, Rietz managed to strike a balance between his work as a researcher and his responsibilities as a federal agent. According to Sol Tax, Rietz’s “greatest problem turned out to be avoiding moving ‘up’ to higher positions in the B.I.A.!”
Upon his resignation from Fort Berthold, effective October 1954, Rietz returned to Chicago and the “Action Anthropology” group, taking up a research affiliation at the University of Chicago. Over the next three years he pursued a close working relationship with Native American populations in the Tama Indian Project and its summer field training school. Until becoming the Director of the American Indian Center in 1958, Rietz would remain engaged in a number of other educational and health care projects meant to provide for Native American populations, including an arts and crafts cooperative (Tamacraft), and the Summer Workshops for Native American Indian College Students, of which he was a founder, both in Colorado and in Canada. In the late 1960s, Rietz was also responsible for a course on the “History and Culture of the American Indian” at Northeastern Illinois State College.
Sol Tax (1907-1996) was a prominent cultural anthropologist. He completed a Bachelor's degree at the University of Wisconsin in Madison in 1931, a M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of Chicago (1932 and 1935). He took a faculty position at University of Chicago in 1940 and remained there until 1977. Tax founded the academic journal Current Anthropology (1959), served on the National Research Council Committee on Latin American Anthropology (1946-1954), served on the President's Task Force on Indian Affairs (1965-1969), was Director of the Smithsonian Institute's Center for the Study of Man (1969-1977), served as President of the American Anthropological Association (1958-1959) and edited that Association's Journal, American Anthropologist (1953-1956). He was a pioneer in the field of action anthropology, published many academic articles and corresponded with researchers and activists.
Tax was an active organizer of the 1961 American Indian Chicago Conference (AICC, also called the American Indian Charter Convention or Conference), which produced the path-breaking Declaration of Indian Purpose, and worked to coordinate pan-tribal research on education. Tax was instrumental in the creation of the Native American Educational Services (NAES) in 1970 as an offshoot of earlier organizing efforts by Chicago Indians and their supporters.
The first meeting of what was to become the Northwestern Baptist Education Society was held on September 14, 1891, at 7 Custom House Place, Chicago. "The Joint Committee of the Trustees of the University of Chicago and the Theological Union" met "in response to a communication of the Ladies' Baptist Education Society." The purpose of the meeting was stated to be to form "one ministerial society, to take the place of the different organizations now working for the same end in this field," and to harmonize "interests now to some extent conflicting," and to afford "the necessary aid to students for the ministry in the Northwestern States."
Before the Society was fairly in working order, however, the Great Fire disorganized every plan that had been made and for the time put out of sight the work and needs of the Society. During the next few years the Executive Committee met more or less regularly and handled the business of the Society.
The Society had, since its founding, received the sum of $14,326.89 from fifteen states. The state conventions of Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin had by this time taken official action guaranteeing cooperation with the Society and on November 18, 1876 the Society was incorporated under the general laws of Illinois. Thomas W. Goodspeed was secretary from 1876 until he resigned in 1889 to raise funds for the new University of Chicago.
The last meeting of the Society was held in the office of Dean Mathews on May 8, 1925.
Horace van Norman Hilberry was born in Cleveland, Ohio, and graduated from Oberlin College in 1921. Before arriving at University of Chicago, Hilberry served on the faculty of New York University, where he taught physics and conducted research in cosmic rays, physical optics and discharge of electricity through gases.
Hilberry earned a doctorate in physics from University of Chicago in 1941, completing a thesis entitled "Extensive cosmic-ray showers and the energy distribution of the primary cosmic rays." As a personal aide to Dr. Arthur Holly Compton, director of the Metallurgical Project, Hilberry participated in the Chicago Pile Experiment of 1942 as the “axe man”: If neutron detectors indicated a runaway reaction, Hilberry was to cut a rope that suspended a safety rod over the pile.
Hilberry went on to serve in a number of administrative positions, directing research and development projects associated with DuPont, Hanford Engineer Works, and the Manhattan District of the U.S. Corps of Engineers He became associate director of Argonne National Laboratory in 1945, then served as director from 1957 to 1961. He continued to work as senior scientist and consultant to the laboratory until 1964. Hilberry then joined University of Arizona’s department of nuclear and energy engineering, where he taught until his 1985 retirement. He died in 1986.
Little is known of the author of the letters in this collection, Aaron Nickerson. From the contents of the collection, he moved to La Grange, Texas, from a northern state (possibly Michigan) in 1839. The Texas Revolution had ended in 1836, and many settlers were moving to the state as it emerged as an independent republic. Lizzie, Aaron’s correspondent in this collection, lived in Jackson, Michigan, though information on her life is sparse as well. The letters in the collection range from 1839 to 1860, covering almost all of Texas’ shift from independent republic to state, including the Mexican-American war (1846-1847).
Hoke Marion Norris was born on October 8, 1913 in Holly Springs, North Carolina. He received an A.B. from Wake Forest College (now Wake Forest University) in 1934. His post-graduate work included time at the University of North Carolina (1946), Harvard University (1950-1951, as a Nieman Fellow), and the University of Chicago (1960-1961, on a Ford Foundation Grant).
Norris’ long career in journalism began in 1934 when he started working for the Daily Advance of Elizabeth City, North Carolina. Work at other papers soon followed including the News and Observer (Raleigh, North Carolina, 1936-1937), the Associated Press (editor for Raleigh and Charlotte, North Carolina, 1937-1942, 1946), the Winston-Salem Journal-Sentinel (1946-1950, 1951-1955), the Chicago Sun-Times (reporter, 1958-1959; literary editor, 1959-1968), and the Chicago Daily News (editorial board member, 1968-1970).
In addition to his work in journalism, Norris served as public relations director for the Lost Colony summer theater of Manteo, North Carolina (1946-1947). He was also an instructor in creative writing at the University of Chicago, at the Y.M.C.A., and at the summer program of the University of Wisconsin. From 1971 to 1974 he served as the Director of Public Information for the Chicago Public Library. In 1974 Norris returned to the University of Chicago to serve as Assistant Vice-President for Public Affairs and Director of Public Information. Amidst these jobs Norris served as an intelligence officer in the Army Air Force from 1942 to 1946 in the Southwest Pacific Theater.
Norris’ publications extend from newspaper articles to non-fiction to novels. His work includes All the Kingdoms of the Earth (1956), We Dissent (1962), and It’s Not Far But I Don’t Know the Way (1968). He also had short storied published in Playboy, Redbook, Rogue, Cavalier, Gallery, Genesis, and other journals and anthologies.
In 1965 the Illinois Library Association presented Norris with the Intellectual Freedom Citation.
Norris married Edna Dees. The couple had one child, Marion Dees Norris.
Hoke Norris died on July 8, 1977 in Chicago. He was 63.
Ida Elizabeth Smith Noyes was born on April 16, 1853 in Croton, Delaware County, New York to Joel W. and Susan M. Wheat Smith. The family of seven moved to Iowa in 1857. In 1870 Noyes began attending Iowa State College, then spent a term at the State University of Iowa City, finally completing college at the State University at Ames in 1874.
Noyes returned home and became a teacher in the Charles City High School. She married La Verne Noyes, an inventor and manufacturer whom she had met in college, on May 24, 1877. The couple moved to Chicago in 1879, where Noyes followed her ambition to become an artist by enrolling at the Art Institute. This interest in art led her to make a two-year trip to Europe in 1886. In a volume of the University Record from 1919, Thomas W. Goodspeed writes that driven by her artistic instinct, Noyes was “a devotee of the camera” during her years in Europe.
Noyes made other trips, including an 1892 journey to the Pacific Coast where she visited Oregon, Washington, and California. She returned to Europe in 1894, and again in 1895. In the summer of 1897, Noyes and her husband took a trip throughout the West and Northwest of the United States, eventually ending up in Alaska. Later that same year, Noyes and a friend left to spend six months traveling around the world, having been inspired by a similar journey described in East, West-Home’s Best, by Sarah A. Pope. During this trip, Noyes took almost two thousand photographs. Other travels followed, and in 1910 Noyes made her last trip abroad to London.
Noyes, in addition to having a great love for travel, was very interested in the activities of women. She was the director of the Twentieth Century Club and of the Women’s Athletic Club. She was president of the North Side Art Club and was a member of the Chicago Colony of New England Women. Later, Noyes was an active member, then secretary and regent of the Daughters of the American Revolution, Chicago Chapter. Noyes went on to become the vice president of the national organization.
After a lengthy illness, Ida Noyes died on December 5, 1912. Six months after her death, her husband announced to the Trustees of the University of Chicago that he wanted to build a hall dedicated to her memory. The cornerstone for Ida Noyes Hall was laid on April 17, 1915.
George Wells Beadle (1903-1989) was the son of Chauncey Elmer Beadle, a farmer, and Hattie Albro. Beadle was educated at the Wahoo High School in Nebraska and may have become a farmer if one of his teachers at school had not directed him towards science and persuaded him to go to the College of Agriculture at Lincoln, Nebraska. There he took up the new field of genetics and continued on to receive his Ph.D. from Cornell University.
Beadle taught biology at Harvard, Stanford and the California Institute of Technology before coming to the University of Chicago. During his time at Stanford, Beadle began his collaboration with Edward L. Tatum. Beadle and Tatum worked to establish the relationship between genes and enzymes in the bread mold Neurospora, which would earn them the 1958 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine.
In 1960, Beadle was elected Chancellor of the University of Chicago and, in autumn of the same year, President of the University. Beadle served as President and Professor of biology from 1961-1968. These were turbulent years of growth and change for universities across the country. Despite calls for universities to become centers for social and political action, Beadle held the University of Chicago steady to its traditional values of research and intellectual excellence. Beadle increased the size of the faculty, raised the average salary, and doubled campus expenditures. The three year development campaign reached its goal of $160 million and many new buildings were erected on campus. Beadle led the university through student protests concerning racial segregation in university housing policy as well as Vietnam protests against university compliance with government regulations requiring reports on the academic ranking of male students for draft purposes.
While president of the University of Chicago, Beadle continued his interest in genetics and grew corn behind his house and in other plots near campus, occasionally being mistaken for a University gardener. Beadle retired from the Presidency on his 65th birthday. He accepted the directorship of the Institute for Biomedical Research of the American Medical Association which he moved to campus, where he remained to teach and continue experiments with corn for some years. He was named William E. Wrather Professor of Biology from 1969-1975 and retired to Pomona, California with his wife Muriel in 1982.
Lawrence A. Kimpton (1910-1977) was raised in Kansas City, Missouri, attended college at Stanford, and completed a Ph.D. in philosophy at Cornell University in 1935. He worked in California and Nevada throughout the late 1930s, teaching at the experimental Deep Springs College and working as a cattle rancher. He came to Chicago in 1943 to work as Chief Administrative Officer of the Metallurgical Laboratory, associated with the Manhattan Project.
University Chancellor Robert Maynard Hutchins hired Kimpton as Dean of Students in 1944. Kimpton later recalled that in his brief interview, Hutchins asked, "Don’t you think the University is lousy? Don’t you think great books are great? And isn’t the function of an educational institution to educate?" Kimpton agreed, and after also admitting he knew absolutely nothing about student matters, Hutchins immediately offered him the job. In 1947, Kimpton returned to Stanford, where he served as Dean of Students for three years. In 1950, he was re-hired by the University of Chicago as Vice-President of Development. When Hutchins resigned in 1951, Kimpton was named as his successor.
In his first years as Chancellor, Kimpton imposed significant University-wide budget cuts, balancing the university’s budget for the first time since the Depression. In 1955, he instigated a large development campaign which raised funds for expansion and endowments. Through the last five years of his tenure, Kimpton oversaw the construction of 15 new campus buildings and a 30 percent increase in faculty salaries.
While improving the university’s financial situation, Kimpton also worked to improve the Hyde Park area. Many neighborhood buildings had been poorly maintained since the Depression, and overcrowding had caused problems in infrastructure and security. Kimpton assisted in the creation of the South East Chicago Commission (SECC), a group which coordinated broad-based urban renewal projects throughout Hyde Park-Kenwood. More than 20 percent of buildings in the neighborhood were removed and rehabilitated through renewal projects. Kimpton, serving as president of the SECC, oversaw the allocation of federal, state, local, and private funds to projects aimed at improving housing, infrastructure, and safety in the Hyde Park area. Reflecting on this work, Kimpton "acknowledged that the urban renewal program did not solve the problems of the city’s slums – only that it had saved the university."
Within the academic sphere, Kimpton brought the undergraduate curriculum back into alignment with national standards and expectations. Under Hutchins, the College had accepted students after completing tenth grade, granting a bachelor’s degree after the college sophomore year. Kimpton reinstated a traditional College program, with a four-year sequence beginning after twelfth grade.
After fulfilling his three major goals of financial stability, neighborhood security, and curricular standardization, Kimpton resigned in 1960. He worked as an executive for Standard Oil of Indiana until his 1971 retirement.
Originally an advertising executive and broadcasting entrepreneur, William Benton retired from the advertising world in 1935 and accepted an offer from the University of Chicago's president, Robert M. Hutchins, to undertake a short term study of the university's public relations. After completing the study, Benton assumed the post of part-time vice-president in 1937, overseeing the university's public affairs and broadcasting initiatives until 1945.
As part of Benton's plan to improve the University of Chicago's public image in the wake of accusations that it was a haven for left-wing radicalism, as well as to increase its visibility and prestige, both Benton and Hutchins gave a great number of public talks, especially to the business community. Moreover, Benton's office arranged for Hutchins and prominent faculty members to write articles and be interviewed as experts for various media.
One of Benton's most successful projects was the University of Chicago's Round Table radio program, which was launched as a local broadcast in 1931 and was picked up by the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) in 1933. It was thereafter aired as a national broadcast until 1955. The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, a private trust providing grants for projects related to science, technology, and economic performance, began sponsoring the weekly broadcasts in 1938.
The standard Round Table format involved three speakers, usually two university faculty members and one guest speaker, and dealt with contemporary – often controversial – social, political and economic issues. Though it quickly emerged as one of the most popular radio programs of the time, it was also criticized for having a leftist bias, especially by NBC. The latter pushed for more network control over its content and sought to impose commercial standards on its scholarly approach. Alfred P. Sloan, himself, criticized the program after a 1945 broadcast in which the liberal economist and philosopher Friedrich Hayek faced off with two faculty members, Charles E. Merriam and Maynard C. Krueger. Sloan viewed the program as unfairly harsh in its treatment of Hayek, and this temporarily jeopardized the program's relationship with the Foundation. During the Second World War, most of the Round Table's programming was related to developments in the war and the American military effort.
Benton also successfully launched the radio program The Human Adventure, which aired 1939-1945. The program showcased faculty research on a wide range of topics, including scientific, historical and cultural phenomena; however, it was less successful than the Round Table at attracting a broad audience. Aside from radio, Benton was keen to develop the University of Chicago's capacity for producing educational films, but his efforts in this realm were not as fruitful as his radio endeavors.
In early 1942, Benton was appointed by the U.S. War Department as Coordinator of the Orientation Courses of the Bureau of Public Relations for the Sixth Corps Area (comprising Illinois, Wisconsin and Michigan). This position involved organizing lectures on different regions of the world, political developments, and international relations for the officer orientation courses held by the various Midwestern military camps of this area. In 1945, Benton officially left the university, accepting the position of Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs, which involved consolidating wartime information agencies and creating new information bodies for the post-war era.
Ron Offen was born to Charles, a sales engineer, and Ellen Offen on October 12, 1930 in Chicago, IL. In 1950 he married Sharon Nealy; from 1966-2000 he was married to Rosine Breuckner (aka Kristine Cameron); in 2003, he married Beverly K. Drick. Offen received an AA degree from Wright Junior College in 1950 and an MA degree from the University of Chicago in 1967.
Offen worked in the insurance industry from 1953-1967. He then pursued a literary career as a poet, writer, and editor. He served as editor for Chicagoland (1967-1969) and Automotive Fleet (1969-1971). In 1994 he edited The Starving Poets' Cookbook, Free Lunch Arts Alliance. He wrote biographies and books of poetry, including Dillinger: Dead or Alive? (with Jay Robert Nash, 1970), Brando (1973), Together: A Casebook of Joint Practices in Primary Care (with Hal Higdon and Jack Star, 1977), Instead of Gifts: Poems for Poets (1995), Answer Questions (1996), and God's Haircut, and other Remembered Dreams (1999).
Offen wrote poetry columns for Chicagoland and Automotive Fleet magazines. He also created several television series including Blackwash, Main Road Travelled, and Meeting of the Mindless, as well as the radio plays The Last Celebration of Leon Duprey, and Madame Sostro: The Dream Merchant.
In 1989, after a bout with cancer, Offen founded the poetry journal Free Lunch: A Poetry Miscellany. He stated, "I thought about how important poetry had been to me my whole life and how much it had given to me. So, I thought, I want to give something back to poetry and poets."
Offen was an active member in various organizations, such as Authors League of America and Society of Mid Land Authors. In 1955 Offen won first prize from the Chicago Poets and Writers Association and in 1975 he won the Joseph Jefferson Award for producer of children's theater.
Offen continued to edit Free Lunch: A Poetry Miscellany until it ceased publication in 2009. He died on August 9, 2010.
Off- Off Campus is the second oldest continuously running student improvisation theater troupe in the country, with the first generation of actors dating back to 1986. Improvisational and sketch comedy first started at the University of Chicago in the 1950’s as a group of students formed the Compass players on campus, which in 1959 became The Second City. In 1986, U of C Alum and Second City co-founder Bernie Sahlins (A.B. ’43) returned the University campus in order to begin a south side group to rival his north side creation. Sahlins trained the first generation of Off-Off Campus in the art of sketch and improve comedy, using the same technique he had developed and taught 27 year prior within his classroom. The group has continued to use this same regiment of training since.
The troupe is set to the rhythm of the University of Chicago quarter system, casting a new “generation” each fall, who regularly produce a theater revue in the autumn, winter, and spring. The group also brought comedy to the orientation week (O-Week) of the University of Chicago and many other Midwest schools as they used sketch comedy as a means of transmitting messages and mirth to incoming freshman. For a period of time, the group also participated in the international Fringe Theater festival.
Some of the groups alumni have gone on to further success in theater and comedy including David Auburn, winner of the Pulitzer prize for his show (and now film) Proof, Greg Kotis, best known for penning the Tony award winning musical Urinetown, and Tami Sagher, writer on the television series “30 Rock.” Early comedic sketches written by David Auburn and Tami Sagher can be found within the collection.
Elder Olson was born in 1909 in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at the University of Chicago, where he received his B.A. (1934), M.A. (1935), and Ph.D. (1938).
Olson became a visiting Assistant Professor of English at the University of Chicago in 1942, Professor in 1955, and Distinguished Service Professor in 1973.
Olson published many volumes of poetry and literary criticism. Things of Sorrow, Poems (1934), was published while he was an undergraduate at the University of Chicago. Among his other books of poetry are: The Cock of Heaven (1940), The Scarecrow Christ, and Other Poems (1954), and Olson's Penny Arcade: Poems (1975). Olson's literary criticism includes: The Poetry of Dylan Thomas (1954), Tragedy and the Theory of Drama (1961), and On Value Judgments in the Arts and Other Essays (1976).
Elder Olson died on July 25, 1992 in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
The "Origin of Man" symposium was held April 2-4, 1965, at the Center for Continuing Education. It was organized and convened by Sol Tax, Professor of Anthropology at the University of Chicago, and sponsored by the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research.
The symposium was a working conference of anthropologists, designed to assist the participants in re-thinking and reformulating their views on the origin of man in the light of new information on the subject.
The symposium was occasioned by Louis S.B. Leakey's visit to the United States. L.S.B. Leakey was the principal anthropologist involved with the archeological work at the Olduvai Gorge in Tanganyika, where the partial remains of several early men were discovered. It was Leakey's theory that three types of early man-like beings, habilis, Pithecanthropis, and Australopithecus, were living in the gorge simultaneously. This view of man's origin in opposed to the view traditionally held by anthropologists that of a single line of descent for man.
Melchior Palyi was born in Budapest, Hungary in 1892. He received his Doctorate in Economics from the University of Munich in 1915. From 1918 to 1933 Palyi taught at the University of Munich, the University of Goettingen and the University of Kiel. In 1927, he first came to the United States as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago. 1928 saw Palyi as an economist at the Deutsche Bank. Until 1931, Palyi was also a Professor of Finance at the Graduate School of Commerce in Berlin. For the next three years he held two posts important in the financial reconstruction of the German economy: he was the principal economic advisor to the Reichsbank and the Managing Director of the Institute for Currency Research, Berlin.
By 1933, Palyi had immigrated to the United States. He became a visiting professor and research economist at the University of Chicago and the University of Wisconsin. During the years 1943-1944, Palyi gave a series of radio talks on WIND, dealing with economic and social problems caused by the war in Europe. In 1945, he became a war correspondent and wrote articles for the Chicago Tribune and the Jackson Citizen Patriot newspapers. After the war, Palyi returned to Chicago and continued teaching and lecturing.
The 1950s saw Palyi producing such works as Compulsory Medical Care and the Welfare State (1950), The Dollar Dilemma: Perpetual Aid to Europe, and Managed Money at the Crossroads (1958). Palyi, as seen through his books and articles, represented the "conservative" faction of American economists during the middle of the 20th century.
In 1960, Melchior Palyi became a visiting professor and research economist at Northwestern University. From 1961 to 1968 Palyi wrote a weekly column for the Chicago Tribune entitled, "Comment," which dealt with various economic problems in the United States and the world as well as local problems. Also in 1961, Palyi produced a small but foresighted book that he entitled An Inflation Primer. This book attempted to get at the various causes for spiraling inflation and the accompanying recessionary periods. From 1962 to 1970, Palyi also wrote a regular column for the Chicago Commercial and Financial Chronicle which was entitled "Point of View."
Melchior Palyi, after 78 years of studying, advising, and teaching about world economics, died on July 29, 1970. In 1971 one of his greatest works was published posthumously. The Twilight of Gold dealt with a subject that fascinated Palyi all of his life: the gold standard. In this book he talks about the classical gold standard, the post-World War I monetary climate and its relationship to gold stabilization (which includes an interesting section entitled "Social Justice vs. Gold") and the New Gold Standard. "Prelude to Catastrophe" is a section which discusses flaws in the international credit structure and the American debt behemoth and the speculative euphoria. "Destabilization (1931-1936)" deals with the demise of the "Gold Bloc." The final section of the text proper deals with the demise of the gold standard. Additionally, there is a postscript entitled "Does History Repeat Itself?"
Eugene Newman Parker was born on June 10, 1927 in Houghton, Michigan. His father, Glenn Parker, worked as an engineer at Chrysler and his mother, Helen Parker (MacNair) worked as a homemaker. Parker earned a B.S. in Physics from Michigan State University in 1948 and a PhD from the California Institute of Technology in 1951.In 1954, Eugene married Niesje Parker. The couple had one son, Eric Parker, and one daughter, Joyce Marie Parker. After finishing his PhD, Parker worked at the University of Utah as an instructor and assistant professor. He was hired by the University of Chicago in 1955, where he worked for the rest of his career. In 1958, Parker published his prediction of the existence of solar wind, a continuous outpouring of charged particles flowing from the sun at a million miles per hour. His idea was met with widespread skepticism from fellow physicists, including the reviewers of the paper and the editor of the publication. Parker’s prediction was verified, however, when NASA’s Mariner II spacecraft encountered a flow of solar particles during its flight to Venus in 1962.In addition to heliophysics, Parker also studied cosmic rays and magnetic fields. His four books include Interplanetary Dynamical Processes (1963), Cosmical Magnetic Fields: Their Origin and Their Activity (1979), Spontaneous Current Sheets in Magnetic Fields, with Applications to Stellar X-rays (1994), and Conversations on Electric and Magnetic Fields in the Cosmos (2007). He retired in 1995 but continued to teach and publish work in the following decades. Parker won numerous awards throughout his career, including the National Medal of Science, the Kyoto Prize, and the American Physical Society Medal for Exceptional Achievement in Research. He was member of the National Academy of Sciences and served as chair for the Academy’s astronomy section. In 2017, NASA named its solar probe the Parker Solar Probe in his honor, marking the first time NASA named a spacecraft after a living person. Eugene Parker died in Chicago on March 15, 2022 at the age of 94.Francis W. Parker [1837-1902], leading American educator, was called by John Dewey "more than any other person... the father of the progressive education movement." His teaching career, begun ca. 1857 was interrupted by the Civil War; by the end of the war Parker had attained the rank of lieutenant colonel and for the remainder of his life was known as "Colonel Parker." A $5,000 legacy enabled him to study at the Friedrich Wilhelms University in Berlin and to travel in Holland, Switzerland, Italy, and France, from 1872 to 1875 where he encountered the educational theories of Pestalozzi, Herbart, and Froebel. After returning to the United States, he was appointed superintendent of schools in Quincy, Massachusetts; here his educational innovations, labelled the "Quincy movement," made him a national reputation. In 1883, after several frustrating years in the Boston school system, Parker became principal of the Cook County Normal School in Chicago--an institution devoted to the training of elementary school teachers. Among the supporters of Parker's work in Chicago were Jane Addams, Rabbi Emil G. Hirsch, and Anita McCormack Blaine [Mrs. Emmons Blaine].
In 1899, Mrs. Blaine, in order to free Parker from the continual harassment of politicians and the school board, offered to endow a private school for Parker and his faculty; accordingly, in that year, the Chicago Institute was established. Land was purchased, architectural drawings for the proposed Institute were prepared, and temporary classes begun when William Rainey Harper proposed that the Chicago Institute join with the Department of Education to form the School of Education of the University of Chicago. The merger was to become official on July 1, 1901, and, at the June, 1901 Convocation, ground was broken for the School of Education Building, "Emmons Blaine Hall." At the same time, an elementary school "extension"--known as the Francis W. Parker School--was established on the North Side of the city for the benefit of the sizeable contingent of Chicago Institute pupils who resided there. Parker became Director of the School of Education, while John Dewey (at the University since 1894) remained Head Professor in the Department of Education in the Graduate Schools of Art, Literature, and Science. However, on March 2, 1902, Parker, who had been in ill-health since the beginning of the year, died at the age of 64. The trustees of the Chicago Institute recommended to the Board of Trustees of the University of Chicago that John Dewey be appointed as Parker's successor, and this was accordingly done.
Phyllis J. Patton is a former employee of the Valley Forge Division of the Container Corporation of America. As secretary to the Public Relations Manager, Patton received books, coasters, and calendars created at the facility. The Container Corporation of America was founded in Chicago in 1926 by Walter Paul Paepcke (1896-1960). The company manufactured cardboard boxes but is best known for its modernist design department and their innovative advertisements beginning in the 1930s.
Mark Perlberg was born in 1929 in Palisade, New Jersey. In 1950, he graduated from Hobart College with a degree in English Literature. While taking graduate courses at Columbia University in 1952, he was called to serve in the Korean War. In 1953, he married Anna Backer and, in 1954, he was discharged from the service. He then began his career as a journalist with Time Magazine, relocating to Chicago in 1956. He later worked for Encyclopaedia Britannica, World Book Encyclopedia, and Prism. During this time, he and Anna had two daughters, Katherine Eve and Julie Anna. In 1968, he co-founded the Poetry Center of Chicago, serving as president for 13 years. He also taught a poetry workshop at the Newberry Library for nearly 20 years. Perlberg has five published poetry collections: The Burning Field (1970), The Feel of the Sun (1981), The Impossible Toystore (2000), Waiting for the Alchemist (2009), and Theater of Memory: New and Selected Poems (2012). Mark Perlberg died on June 23rd, 2008 in Skokie, Illinois. His wife, Anna, was instrumental in bringing his final collection to publication.
Pi Lambda Theta is an honor society for educators which was founded in 1910 by the Dean of Education at the University of Missouri, Dr. W.W. Charters. As a member of Phi Beta Kappa, an honor society who admitted only men at the time, Dr. Charters sought to create a similar honor and professional society for women educators. Six other Midwestern institutions had joined the University of Missouri in creating local charters by 1916. In 1917, the society increased its regional scope to a national one, and by the 2000s, it had sixty-three regional, national, and international charters and 15,000 men and women members.
The mission of the Pi Lambda Theta is to honor academic excellence, promote leadership among educators, encourage educational research, and make available to members activities and resources for pursuing these goals.
Pi Lambda Theta installed the Lambda Chapter at the University of Chicago in June, 1921. Its meetings were held on campus in Judd Hall where the Department of Education was housed. Different members of the Education Faculty served as Faculty Advisers to the Chapter. It appears that the Lambda Chapter was dissolved in the mid 1990s when the University of Chicago closed the Department of Education.
Robert Swanton Platt (1891-1964) was born in Columbus, Ohio, studied at St. George's School and the Hotchkiss School, and graduated from Yale in 1914. After teaching for a year at Yale in China at Changsha, he returned to the United States to enter the Department of Geography of the University of Chicago in 1915. Despite the interruption of military service during World War I, he completed his Ph.D. and was appointed an instructor in the Department in 1920. For the next thirty-seven years, Platt remained at the University of Chicago as assistant professor (1921-1927), associate professor (1927-1939), professor (1939-1957), and chairman (1949-1957) of the Department of Geography.
The central concern of Platt's work as a geographer was the intensive field study of small geographical areas that could provide data to support broader theoretical generalizations on the interrelation of landforms and human occupancy. Beginning in 1920 and continuing for more than thirty years, Platt led graduate students in his field courses on annual summer trips to Ellison Bay, Wisconsin, the upper Great Lakes region, and along the U.S.-Canadian border from Manitoba to Quebec. Conclusions drawn from these studies were distilled for presentation at the annual meetings of the Association of American Geographers and subsequently published as a regular series of articles in professional journals.
Platt followed a similar procedure in surveying Central and South American geography. On seven trips to the Caribbean and Latin America between 1922 and 1941 (each lasting from two to six months), Platt and his wife, Harriet, alternated lengthy traverses of continental regions with careful micro-studies of specific villages and farms. These studies, which eventually numbered nearly one hundred, formed the basis for Platt's monographic text, Latin America: Countrysides and United Regions (1942). In later years, Platt utilized the field methods developed in the 1920's and 1930's to examine a variety of other geographic settings: Tierra del Fuego (1948); the Dutch-German border (1952-1954); the Saarland (1958-1959); volcanic activity in Mexico, Hawaii, and Italy (1958-1960); and Pakistan (1961). In each of these projects, as in the edited collection of essays published as Field Study in American Geography (1958), Platt stressed the spatial complexity of human social and cultural patterns and warned against the conceptual dangers of environmental determinism.
While fieldwork formed the foundation of his reputation, Platt was equally well known for his interest in general geographical theory and the development of geography as a professional discipline. From 1923 to 1940, he was a regular participant in the spring field conference of American geographers first organized by Wellington Jones and Carl Sauer. He served the Association of American Geographers for many years as its treasurer (1929-1934), vice-president (1943), president (1945), and as editor of the Annals of the A.A.G. from 1961 to 1964. Outside the discipline, Platt advanced the interests of professional geography as vice-chairman of the Division of Geology and Geography of the National Research Council (1937-1939); as adviser to the Geographer of the U.S. State Department (1943); and most notably as chief of the Division of Maps at the Library of Congress (1944-1945) during Federal wartime mobilization. Even after his retirement in 1957, Platt's interest in professionalism and methodology was reflected in his organization of the Pakistan Field Geographers while a Fulbright Scholar in 1962 and his course on Geographic Thought given as a visiting professor at Indiana University in 1963.
Platt's skill as a teacher and his generous encouragement of the work of others contributed to the high regard in which he was held by both students and colleagues. Together with Harriet, he opened his home at 10820 S. Drew to successive generations of foreign and American students in geography and other fields, many of who lived with the Platts for more than a year and came to style themselves "Plattaches." The Platt home was also the scene of frequent gatherings of Department of Geography faculty, staff, students, and alumni, and of meetings with geographers from other universities. Following Platt's death in 1964, several of these friends and colleagues joined in erecting a monument in his memory in Ellison Bay, Wisconsin, on the site of his earliest contributions to field methodology and in tribute to the teacher and scholar who represented "in remarkable degree," as Richard Hartshorne has noted, "the development of American geography during his lifetime."
Poetry: A Magazine of Verse was founded in 1912 by Chicago poet Harriet Monroe. Taking Whitman's line, "To have great poets there must be great audiences too" as her motto, Monroe sought to cultivate a wide readership for new writing and ideas. By insisting on paying all contributors and establishing an annual prize, Poetry magazine raised the visibility and status of poetry. The journal published and promoted the careers of a galaxy of poets who came to define twentieth century modernism, including T. S. Eliot, Ezra Pound, Marianne Moore, Wallace Stevens, William Carlos Williams, Robert Frost, and Langston Hughes, among many others. Poetry transformed the way that poetry and poets are recognized and read worldwide, and it continues to flourish as a major cultural influence.
Monroe funded the early publication of Poetry with subscriptions and contributions from wealthy Chicago patrons. As editor, she shepherded the magazine through into its third decade. Following Monroe's death in 1936, editorship passed to Morton Dauwen Zabel (1936-1937), followed by George Dillon (1937-1949), Hayden Carruth (acting editor, 1949), Karl Shapiro (1950-1954) and Henry Rago (1955-1969).
In 1931, Harriet Monroe presented her poetry library, her personal papers, and the editorial files of Poetry magazine to the University of Chicago. Following her death, the Monroe library and Poetry archives were received as a bequest and installed in a specially designated room in Wieboldt Hall, the modern languages building on the campus of the University of Chicago. The Modern Poetry Library room provided book shelves for the poetry collection, display cases for the letters and manuscripts of notable poets in the Poetry archives, and equipment for listening to recordings of poets reading their works.
The formal opening of the Harriet Monroe Library of Modern Poetry was marked by a festive dinner of the University of Chicago Friends of the Library on May 24, 1938. Guest speakers paying tribute to Harriet Monroe's achievements included Carl Sandburg, Archibald MacLeish, Ford Maddox Ford, George Dillon, and Sterling North. Messages lauding Monroe's remarkable influence were received from many of the poets she had encouraged and promoted, including Ezra Pound, Walter De La Mare, William Rose Benet, Witter Bynner, John Gould Fletcher, Edgar Lee Masters, Lew Sarett, Jean Starr Untermeyer, and John Hall Wheelock, among others.
In addition to the gift of her library and archives, Harriet Monroe's will provided $5,000 to establish a fund for the advancement and encouragement of poetry through the award of a $500 prize for distinction in poetry. Monroe stipulated that the committee of award for the prize should give preference to "poets of progressive rather than academic tendencies." The inaugural Harriet Monroe Poetry Award, given at the University of Chicago in June 1941, was presented to twenty-eight-year-old Muriel Rukeyser. Among those receiving the award in later years were Marianne Moore, Wallace Stevens, and Robert Lowell.
In 1953, the Harriet Monroe Modern Poetry Library was incorporated within the newly established Department of Special Collections of the University of Chicago Library. In 2002, this department became the Special Collections Research Center. The Modern Poetry book collection, enlarged continuously on an annual basis with the support of an endowed acquisition fund, is divided between a poetry collection in the general stacks of Regenstein Library and the Modern Poetry rare books and serials in the Special Collections Research Center. The editorial archives of Poetry magazine, the personal papers of Harriet Monroe, and the papers of other modern poets, editors and publishers of poetry are held as part of the manuscript collections in the Special Collections Research Center.
The editorial archives of Poetry: A Magazine of Verse acquired by bequest from Harriet Monroe included extensive files of correspondence and poetry manuscripts from the time of her founding of the journal in 1912 until her death in 1936. Subsequently, the University of Chicago Library acquired two additional series of editorial files documenting Poetry and its authors during the years 1936-1953 and 1954-1961. Together, these three series of files preserve the letters and writings of a significant and remarkably diverse group of modern poets of the first half of the twentieth century. Eliot, Pound, Williams, Moore, Yeats, Sandburg, Thomas, and Frost are represented, along with Vachel Lindsay, Conrad Aiken, Wallace Stevens, Yvor Winters, Sara Teasdale, James Joyce, Edgar Lee Masters, Alfred Kreymborg, Ford Maddox Ford, Louis Zukofsky, Hart Crane, Witter Bynner, and Robert Penn Warren, Richard Wilbur, and many others.
Michael Polanyi was born in Budapest in 1891, and though his career as a scientist and philosopher led him far from his native Hungary, the intellectual milieu of his childhood remained a life-long influence on his work. His father was an engineer and businessman and his Russian mother, Cecile, wrote a fashion column for the German-language newspaper in Budapest. Throughout the early years of Polanyi's childhood, the family was financially successful, but most of their resources were lost before the first World War, leaving the children largely dependent on Polanyi's brother Karl for support. Despite this poor financial situation, Cecile Polanyi maintained a salon for Hungarian literary figures.
Polanyi grew up in a literate, political world. With his brother Karl and friend Oscar Jászi, a young Polanyi helped to found the Galilei Circle, a Hungarian nationalist group which promoted Hungarian cultural traditions and worked for an independent Hungarian state. Polanyi became a Doctor of Medicine at Budapest University in 1913 and served as a medical officer in the Austro-Hungarian army during World War I. His earliest scientific paper, "Chemistry of Hydrocephalic Liquid," was published at age 19. Throughout the war, he worked on the application of quantum theory to the third law of thermodynamics and on the thermodynamics of adsorption. In 1916, he published his work on adsorption, one of the first of over two hundred scientific papers he was to publish before his move into philosophy in 1948. His theory of adsorption was accepted by the chemistry faculty of Budapest University which awarded him a Ph.D. in 1917.
Following the war, in the autumn of 1920, Polanyi received an appointment to the new Institute of Fibre Chemistry in Berlin, part of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute. His early years in Berlin are recounted in the 1962 essay, My Time with X-Rays and Crystals. Fritz Haber, the Director of the prestigious Institute of Physical Chemistry, sent Polanyi off to expand his laboratory skills in order to achieve full acceptance by the German scientific community. He succeeded in this with a study of x-ray diffraction of cellulose fibers, and in 1923 he was appointed to the Institute of Physical Chemistry to work under Haber. During the following ten years in Berlin, Polanyi established himself as one of Germany's leading physical chemists. He worked with some of the most prominent scientists of the age, including Eugene Wigner with whom he was to share a life-long friendship.
For Polanyi, who was a Jew, the coming to power of Hitler and the National Socialist Party marked the end of his career in Germany. In 1933, prompted by repeated attacks on Jewish intellectuals, Polanyi accepted a chair in physical chemistry created for him at the University of Manchester. He continued with the chemical studies begun in Berlin, and his laboratory at Manchester attracted students and established scientists from all over the world. His contacts with non-refugee German scientists decreased, but from 1933 to 1948 (the year Polanyi accepted the chair of Social Studies at Manchester), his contacts with British scientists increased, and eventually included William H. Bragg and his son William L. Bragg, Arthur Allmand, Patrick Blackett, Christopher Ingold, Cyril Hinshelwood, and Eric Rideal. There are a number of exchanges from this period with Max Born and Erwin Schrödinger, but perhaps his most important associate during this period was Japanese chemist Juro Horiuchi.
During these first years in England, Polanyi turned his interest to the philosophical attack presented free societies by the totalitarian governments of Germany and Russia. In 1935, he published his first non-scientific work, "U.S.S.R. Economics—Fundamental Data System and Spirit." This was accompanied by a film which criticized the system of Soviet economics as an attack on liberty. While devoting most of his time to scientific pursuits, Polanyi spent part of the next five years in work on The Contempt of Freedom (1940), his large-scale critique of totalitarian government. In the early 1930s, Polanyi had visited the Soviet Union and had become friends with two Soviet chemists, Alexander Frumkin and Nicolai Semenoff. Both were to write him asking that he stop his attacks on Soviet economic policies.
A devoted Keynesian, Polanyi's writings on economic subjects are divided between attacks on the Soviet system and lucid commentaries on the work of Lord Keynes. Between 1935 and c1950, Polanyi corresponded with a number of important economists including Friedrich A. Hayek, David Caradog Jones, Wolfe Mays, and John Maynard Keynes. His position as a scientist and a social thinker led him to become involved with a group of intellectuals in England concerned with social problems. This group, the Moot, was convened by Joseph H. Oldham, editor of the Christian Newsletter.
The war was passed in divided intellectual pursuits. Polanyi continued his scientific studies and tried to obtain military projects through Sir William Lawrence Bragg. At the same time he wrote on economic subjects. It was during these years that he helped to found, with John R. Baker, the Society for Freedom in Science which he used as a forum for developing his ideas on scientific liberty.
The philosophic ideas of Michael Polanyi first took characteristic shape during the war years. His opposition of planning in science led to an epistemology of science grounded in a belief in an individual nature of discovery, unhindered by official or dogmatic interference. In 1945, Polanyi published Science, Faith and Society, his first large-scale philosophic work and the foundation for his theory of knowledge. The evolution of Polanyi's thought is traceable in the Papers through a number of manuscripts, beginning with his 1936 On Truth, On Reason and Science and Liberty and continuing with his studies of scientific planning throughout the late 1930s and early 1940s. By 1950, the date of the first of his University of Chicago lecture series, The Logic of Liberty, his interest in philosophy dominated all other intellectual concerns.
In 1951, Polanyi was offered a position at the University of Chicago on the Committee on Social Thought and was awarded a large grant by the Rockefeller Foundation. The State Department, however, held up his immigrant visa under the McCarran Act until Polanyi withdrew it, consequently remaining in Manchester. He was suspected of past involvement in a subversive organization, the Galilei Circle of his Hungarian youth. Ironically, he was involved with the most significant intellectual anti-Communist force in post-war Europe, the Congress for Cultural Freedom. When Princeton University made Polanyi an honorary Doctor of Science during its 1949 bicentennial celebration, he was cited as "a veteran campaigner against those who would take from science the freedom she requires for the pursuit of truth." His book, The Logic of Liberty, 1950, would continue his attack on Soviet infringement of personal liberty begun nearly twenty years before.
Following this debacle, Polanyi became a regular visitor to the United States and the University of Chicago. Two of his lecture series here were ultimately published as The Logic of Liberty (1950) and Meaning (1936). Between 1951 and 1958, when he retired from Manchester to accept a position of senior research fellow at Merton College, Oxford, Polanyi wrote his central philosophical work, Personal Knowledge. Personal Knowledge grew out of Polanyi's 1951 Gifford lectures.
Another aspect of Michael Polanyi's life, political involvement, can be traced throughout the collection. Prominence as a scientist and anti-Communist social thinker led Polanyi to recognition as an important commentator on current affairs. Throughout World War II, his letters, articles, and reviews appeared in various British journals, particularly the Manchester Guardian.
Polanyi was a major figure in the debate over intellectual liberty and most particularly the issue of planning in science. He was co-founder with John R. Baker of the Society for Freedom in Science in 1941. In the post-war period, Polanyi was an active participant in the organization of the Congress for Cultural Freedom and its English affiliate, the Committee on Science and Freedom. His close involvement with these organizations is best illustrated in the correspondence through exchanges with such figures as Raymond Aron, Konstantin A. Jelenski, Shepard Stone, and Michael Josselson.
By 1972, age and infirmity had slowed Professor Polanyi's work. His final years were spent at home in Oxford and in a Northampton nursing home. During this period, Polanyi's wife of fifty-six years, Magda Kemeney Polanyi, managed his affairs. She supervised the translation of Personal Knowledge into German and was responsible for decisions concerning the disposition of Professor Polanyi's papers and library. Michael Polanyi died in the hospital at Northampton on February 22, 1976. He was eighty-four.
Primavera was a feminist literary magazine founded at the University of Chicago in 1975. It was conceived of by Janet Ruth Heller, Celia Josephson, and Deborah Gordon Fisher, and was proposed at the first meeting of the University of Chicago Feminist Organization. The intention was to give women an outlet for their creative work and also to counterbalance another campus publication, Wild Onions, which at the time published work mainly by men. The magazine had several unique attributes from its inception, particularly the invitation extended to all contributing authors and artists to sit on its editorial board, and the commitment to providing feedback for manuscripts that were not selected for publication. These practices could not be sustained for the life of the magazine, however, and by Issue 8 it was operating with a 6-person editorial board. In the mid-1980s the policy of returning all manuscripts with feedback was modified and authors given the option to request comments on their work.
Initially a student organization, the magazine received funding from the University, though that had to be supplemented by grants and loans to cover printing costs. In the 1980s Primavera began to have difficulty in continuing to secure University funding due to their women-only acceptance policy, though it remained affiliated with the University of Chicago until 1990. When the magazine went its own way, a nonprofit corporation was established (Moveable Type, Inc.), under whose auspices operations continued. It was around this time that Primavera began accepting submissions from men, though the focus remained on the lives and experiences of women.
Primavera came into being among many similar publications, among them Black Maria, Calyx, and Sing, Heavenly Muse! While these were all in some sense women's literary journals, they varied in focus. Primavera is notable for its lack of political content; very few essays were published, and the editorial focus was on the artistic merit of the pieces selected. The magazine was more concerned with reflecting the experiences of women than with encouraging activism or overt political messaging. The women reflected in its pages were often older than the demographic reflected by many feminist magazines, were more likely to come from the Midwest (or other areas besides the Northeast and West Coast, which were well represented in the mainstream feminist movement and its associated publications), and there was less of an emphasis on lesbian issues or experiences in Primavera than in some journals.
Issues for the feminist movement at large were also issues for Primavera. That Primavera was a Midwestern magazine placed it somewhat outside the (largely coastal) mainstream of the feminist movement. There was some initial difficulty in getting the magazine reviewed in Ms., which the editors may have felt had to do with the differing values, experiences, and needs of women in large coastal cities and women in the Midwest and south.
The magazine was the recipient of multiple Illinois Arts Council grants and literary awards, awards from Chicago Women in Publishing, and a Puffin Foundation grant used to translate poems by women from around the world. Notable authors who appeared in its pages include Louise Erdrich, 1997 Pulitzer Prize winner Lisel Mueller, Pamela Gemin, Michael Lee West, Diane Seuss, Lori Ostlund, and Chitra Divakaruni.
Members of Primavera's editorial board undertook other publishing-related work as well. In 1986 designer Lisa Grayson and editor Ruth Young worked on a side project preparing and publishing a booklet of early poems by Margaret Pearce Rummel, entitled The Other Side of the Hill. Grayson also work as a designer for other periodicals.
Edward Kirby Putnam, born in Davenport, Iowa, November 17, 1868, received his A.B. degree from Illinois College in 1891. After engaging for a time in newspaper work, he entered the University of Chicago in 1894 as a graduate student in English and Social Science. He remained at Chicago two years before transferring to Harvard, where he took his M.A. degree in 1899; then in 1901 he joined the faculty of Stanford University. In 1906, he left Stanford to become Director of the Davenport Academy of Sciences (now the Davenport Public Museum). He died on May 22, 1939.
Eugene I. Rabinowitch was born in St. Petersburg in April 1898. In 1918, he fled the Red Terror in Soviet Russia with his parents. They went first to Kiev where Eugene briefly enrolled at the University of Kiev, then to Warsaw where Rabinowitch continued his studies. In 1920, the family moved to Berlin.
Rabinowitch studied at the University of Berlin, receiving a PhD in in Chemistry 1925 with a thesis entitled “Über die Darstellung des Zinnwasserstoffs und die Eigenschaften der flüchtigen Hydride” (“Tin Hydrides and Volatile Hydrides”). As a former Russian citizen, he found it difficult to gain an academic position, but following the publication of his book Rare Gases, he became a research fellow at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physical Chemistry in Berlin. He later moved to the University of Gottingen, joining Professor James Franck.
When his fellowship was suspended in 1933, Rabinowitch joined the stream of eminent refugees fleeing Germany. At the invitation of Niels Bohr, he spent a year in Copenhagen, before moving to University College, London, where he worked as a research associate to chemist Frederick G. Donnan. He remained in England for four years.
While lecturing in the United States in 1938, Rabinowitch accepted a position at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with the Cabot Solar Energy Research Project. In the spring of 1944 he took a leave of absence from M. I. T. to join the Manhattan Project, serving as the chief chemist and section chief in the information division at the Metallurgical Laboratory in Chicago. "My work there," Rabinowitch wrote in 1959,"had to do with the exchange and coordination of information between Chicago, Oak Ridge, Hanford and Los Alamos."
Rabinowitch was concerned about the repercussions of the use of nuclear weapons. In June 1945, with a group of scientists led by James Franck, and including Szilard, Seaborg, and Nickson, Rabinowitch helped to draft what has become known as the "Franck Report," addressed to Secretary of War Henry Stimson, warning of an impending nuclear arms race without effective international control.
The same year, with fellow alumni of the Chicago Laboratory Hyman Goldsmith and John Simpson, Rabinowitch founded the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. After Goldsmith's death in 1949, Rabinowitch became the Bulletin's editor-in-chief.
Rabinowitch's status as a molder of opinion among American scientists, his numerous European contacts, and his fluency in Russian made inevitable his role as a leader of the "Pugwash" movement. The call for an international conference of scientists to discuss the perils of the nuclear age was raised by India's Prime Minister Nehru in 1954. The suggestion was taken up in an exchange of letters between Rabinowitch, as representative of the Federation of Atomic Scientists, and the representative of the Atomic Scientists Association of Great Britain, Joseph Rotblat. The Soviets entered the discussions indirectly through an organization of non-scientists, the Association of Parliamentarians for World Government, which held its conference in London in August 1955; Rabinowitch and Rotblat were among the conferees. Subsequently Albert Einstein and Bertrand Russell's joint "appeal" for an international conference of scientists gave impetus to these preliminary organizational attempts. The "appeal" plus the financial assistance of Cyrus Eaton enabled the first Pugwash Conference to convene in 1957 at Eaton's estate, Pugwash, Nova Scotia. Rabinowitch, a founder of the organization, served as a member of the International Continuing Committee of Pugwash from 1957 to 1973 and was president of the movement from 1969 to 1970.
After the first conference the scientists met many more times. Originally, the talks centered upon the scientific implications of atomic energy such as the dangers of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere and the effect of strontium 90 upon the genetic future of humanity. In later meetings the discussions probed the problems of underdeveloped nations and the cooperative roles that science and government should play to increase the food supply, check the population growth, and raise industrial production in these critical parts of the world.
Rabinowitch served as professor of of botany and biophysics at the University of Illinois in Urbana from 1947 to 1968, when became professor of biology and chemistry and as senior advisor to the newly-established Center for Science and the Future of Human Affairs (later called the Center for the Study of Science and Society) at the State University of New York at Albany. Rabinowitch's son, Victor, was director of the Center from 1968 to 1970. Following Victor's resignation, Eugene Rabinowitch served as acting director from March to September 1970. Rabinowitch retired from SUNY Albany on August 31, 1972 and was reappointed as a visiting professor for the 1972-1973 school year. At this time Rabinowitch was given a leave of absence from the University in order to accept a fellowship with the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars of the Smithsonian Institute. While in Washington, he continued to write, edit the Bulletin, and participate in Pugwash.
Rabinowitch married Anya Mejerson on March 12, 1932. Their twin sons, Alexander and Victor, were born in London in 1934. Eugene I. Rabinowitch died on May 15, 1973 in Washington, D.C.
Margaret Gilpin Reid (1896-1991) was an economist whose research interests centered on household production and consumption, and later on the relationships between health, income, and productivity. Her work on the importance of non-market activities such as housework is considered to have anticipated "New Home Economics" in the 1960s.
Reid was born in Canada and completed a degree in Home Economics at the University of Manitoba in 1921. She received her PhD from the University of Chicago in 1931. She taught briefly at Connecticut College, moving on to Iowa State College (Iowa State University) where she taught and researched until 1945. Her first book, Economics of Household Production, was published in 1934. Reid, like her PhD advisor Hazel Kyrk, sought to theorize the productive contribution made by domestic activities within the household. She drew much of her data from experimental agricultural stations in the Midwest. Her attention to labour skills and technologies applied in the home led her to conclude that the household was not only a site of consumption, but of production. Feminist economists would later argue that this work was underappreciated and even ignored, pointing out its similarity to Gary Becker's 1965 Nobel-prize winning theory of time allocation.
Reid served as an economic advisor to the Division of Statistical Standards during 1943 and 1944. She moved permanently to Washington the following year, where she served as the Head of Family Economics for the Department of Agriculture. She returned to academia in 1948, taking up a position in economics at the University of Chicago, Urbana-Champaign. She was also a member of the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, reporting on price inflation and family budgets to its Committee on Postwar Agricultural Policy. Reid's tenure at Iowa State and at UIUC involved her in controversies about academic freedom: in Iowa, faculty chafed at the dairy lobby's control over the administration, while in Illinois a series of resignations protested the administration's removal of a popular Dean.
In 1951 Reid returned to the University of Chicago as a Professor of Home Economics and Economics. Although she became emeritus in 1961, she continued to research and write until her death in 1991. Her work at Chicago brought her in contact with economists such as Theodore W. Schultz (a colleague from Iowa) and Milton Friedman. She was an active member of Gary Becker's Applications of Economics Workshop. In later years her work was preoccupied with the relationship between demographic factors such as age, race, health, and income, and productivity and consumption.
The American Economic Association named Reid a Distinguished Fellow in 1980, recognizing her as a "truly tireless colleague" whose contributions to the field were complemented by a "felicitous sense of humour." In 1996 Feminist Economics devoted an issue to recognizing her research, and scholarship continues to try to restore her status as a pioneering economist.
The Renaissance Seminar began in 1963 at the University of Chicago. The group was founded by Edward Lowinsky, the Ferdinand Schevill Distinguished Service Professor of Music at the University of Chicago. The Seminar attracted participants from colleges and universities throughout the Midwest.
Rachel Marshall Goetz was born in 1904 in Delaware, Ohio. The daughter of University of Chicago Business School founder and dean, Leon Carroll Marshall, she attended the University’s Laboratory School, the College and the Graduate School of Business, earning a master’s degree in business in 1927. She lived in Hyde Park for 65 years and maintained close ties to the community throughout her life.
Early in her career, Goetz worked with her friend Ursula Batchelder Stone, the first woman to be granted a Ph. D. in business at the University of Chicago. They formed the Batchelder and Marshall Research Organization, authoring several studies including "Chicago’s Stake in International Trade." She also worked closely with the Illinois League of Women Voters.
In 1949, after the death of her husband, Roger Goetz, she undertook significant work on the use of new media by state and local governments. Rachel Goetz wrote several pamphlets and articles on the use of visual aids in public service and developed a course on educational television, which she taught at the University of Chicago during the 1954-1955 academic year. Goetz also won the competition to name Chicago’s public television station’s call letters with her entry, "WTTW, Chicago’s Window to the World."
In 1955, Goetz joined the presidential campaign staff of Illinois governor Adlai Stevenson. She worked as a speechwriter, helping to craft Stevenson’s statements on a variety of issues, with special focus on the female vote. She maintained a close relationship with Stevenson through the late 1950s and early 1960s.
Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, Goetz focused considerable time and energy on the Hyde Park-Kenwood urban renewal project. She was a founding member of the Hyde Park-Kenwood Community Conference, and she sat on the board of the South East Chicago Commission. Goetz was influential in the establishment of the Hyde Park Co-op grocery store, and she helped in the planning of the Kenwood Shopping Center on 53rd street.
In 1972, Goetz moved to Alexandria, Virginia and focused her energy on creating ornamental eggs, a decorative art form exemplified by the work of Carl Peter Fabergé. Her work has been widely praised within the egg artist community, and has been displayed at the Smithsonian Institution, Mount Vernon, the Illinois state capitol, the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.
Goetz funded a fellowship in her father’s name at the Graduate School of Business. Later, this fellowship’s funding enabled the establishment of the Leon Carroll Marshall and Mary Keen Marshall Scholarship and the Roger L. and Rachel M. Goetz Professorship in Creative Management. Goetz died on November 15, 1994
Bob Richards is a Chicago photographer.
The Lower Rickert House at the University of Chicago was part of the Woodward Court residential hall, completed in 1958 and demolished in 2001. Woodward Court was a residential hall for university undergraduates.
David Riesman (born September 22, 1909, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.—died May 10, 2002, Binghamton, New York) was an American sociologist, attorney, writer, and educator. He is best known as the author of The Lonely Crowd: A Study of the Changing American Character (with Reuel Denney and Nathan Glazer, 1950), an examination of post-WWII American society. The book struck a chord with readers and became a bestseller, contributing the terms "inner-directed," "outer-directed," and "tradition-directed" to discourse on the social character of modern Americans in an age of burgeoning prosperity and consumerism.
Riesman was educated at Harvard University, receiving an A.B. in biochemistry in 1931 and a law degree in 1934. Following law school, he clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Louis D. Brandeis for a year, then taught law at the University of Buffalo from 1937 to 1941 (now the State University of New York at Buffalo). He also served as a deputy assistant district attorney in Manhattan in 1940, where he contributed to the state legislature's anti-Communist Rapp-Coudert committee hearings. Riesman spent World War II working as an executive at the Sperry Gyroscope Company.
Riesman married Evelyn Hastings Thompson, a writer and art critic, in 1936. She died in 1998. They had two daughters, Lucy Lowenstein and Jennie Riesman; and a son, Michael.
The remainder of Riesman's career was in academia. He taught social sciences at the University of Chicago from 1946 to 1958, then at Harvard until his retirement in 1980. He wrote and co-authored more than a dozen books, including Faces in the Crowd: Individual Studies in Character and Politics (with Glazer, 1952), Thorstein Veblen: A Critical Interpretation (1953), Individualism Reconsidered and Other Essays (1954), Abundance for What? and Other Essays (1964), and The Academic Revolution (with Jencks, 1968).
Wyndham Robertson (1803-1888), the 20th governor of Virginia actively corresponded with southern generals during the civil war. Additionally, he traced his family heritage to Pocahontas and authored historical texts.
Earl Edgar Rosenthal (b. August 26, 1921, d. September 13, 2007) was an art history professor at the University of Chicago for over forty years, scholar of Spanish renaissance art and architecture, and War World II veteran. After receiving his B.A. from the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee in 1943, he served with the U.S. Naval Reserve from 1943 to 1946.
He pursued further studies in art history at New York University and completed a dissertation on the Cathedral of Granada in 1953 (published by Princeton, 1961). After brief work for the Milwaukee Art Institute and Layton Art Gallery, he was appointed assistant professor of art at the University of Chicago in 1954, where he developed his entire professorial career, becoming full professor in art history by the 1960s.
In 1963, Rosenthal received a Guggenheim grant, and a year later, he published a highly influential article in the Art Bulletin entitled "Michelangelo's Moses, dal di sotto in su" (December 1964). In his careful study of this work, already vastly examined, Rosenthal nonetheless observed that the extremes in proportion of the Moses statue only made sense in the context of its original purpose, to be placed high on Julius II's tomb. Thus, Rosenthal's postulation that the Moses only made sense when seen "looking up from below" demonstrates his astute examinations and original thinking.
Rosenthal was known for teaching courses on the diffusion of the renaissance arts throughout Europe and for highlighting Spain's important contributions to this period of art history. He published a monograph in 1985 entitled The Palace of Charles V in Granada. In 1995, Professor Rosenthal retired to Santa Barbara, where he died at the age of 86.
Beardsley Ruml (1894-1960), probably best know for his "Pay - As - You - Go" income tax plan, also achieved distinction as an educator, trust administrator, business executive, and advisor to commerce, industry, education, and government, particularly in the field of financial and fiscal policy. In addition, he was a prolific writer and much in demand as a speaker, both on general subjects of social and economic interest and on his fields of specialization.
Educator and businessman. A.B., Dartmouth College, 1915. Ph.D., University of Chicago, 1917. Director, Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial, 1922-1929. Dean of Social Sciences, University of Chicago, 1931-1933; professor of education, 1931-1933. Treasurer, R.H. Macy and Company, 1934-1945; Chairman of the Board, 1945-1951.
Jean-Baptiste Say was born on January 5, 1767, in Lyon, France, to Jean-Etienne Say and Fraçoise Brun de Castanet. He had three siblings, Denis Say, Jean Henri Say, and Lous Auguste Horace Say (who was also an economist). In 1785, Say traveled to England with his brother, Horace, to complete his education at a private school in Croydon. Say returned to France in 1787 and began work at a life assurance company.
Say published his first work, on the liberty of the press, in 1789. By 1793, he had become the secretary to Clavière, the finance minister. In 1793, he married Julie Gourdel-Deloches. Together they had two children, Horace Emile Say and Adrienne Say.
From 1794 to 1800, Say worked as the editor of La Decade philosophique, litteraire, et politique, a periodical in which he refined his own economic views as well. The periodical established his reputation as a publicist, and he was selected as one of the members of the tribunate for the consulate government established in 1799. He continued publishing in the following years, and in 1803, published his principal work, the Traité d'économie politique ou simple exposition de la manière dont se forment, se distribuent et se composent les richesses. A second and third edition of this work was published in 1814 and 1817, respectively.
In 1819, Say co-founded the ESCP Europe, which became the first business school in the world. In 1826, he was elected as a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, and in 1831, he was made a professor of political economy at the Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers. Late in his life, at this point, Say was subjected to attacks of nervous apoplexy, particularly after the death of his wife in 1830. Say later died in Paris on November 15, 1832. He is buried in Les Invalides, the resting place of many of France’s most influential figures, including Napolean Bonaparte.
Joseph Halle Schaffner (1897-1972) spent most of his life in his native Chicago as director of the clothing-manufacturing firm Hart, Schaffner, and Marx. He formed several collections reflecting both literary and historical interests. His greatest collecting passion was the history of science, and he bequeathed to the University of Chicago an extraordinary collection of several hundred scientific and medical rare books and manuscripts.
Schaffner acquired fine copies of great books, many in contemporary or presentation bindings or from the libraries of great scientists. He relished the excitement of competing for a particularly rare item, especially since he was so often successful; and he exemplifies the zealous, generous bibliophile whose high standards and discriminating taste have enriched the holdings of American research libraries. Schaffner's passion for collecting also resulted in the acquisition of some important manuscripts and correspondence of notable scientists.
Marjorie (Preston) Schulz was a student at Hyde Park High School in Chicago, Illinois. She attended the University of Chicago, graduating in 1912. Upon graduation Schulz moved to Jacksonville, Florida to accept a teaching job.
Eva Watson-Schütze was born in Jersey City, New Jersey in 1867. At the age of sixteen she enrolled in the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia, where she studied under Thomas Eakins. She eventually became a founding member of the Photo-Secession movement and contributed both images and articles to Stieglitz's Camera Work, while being an active participant in Steiglitz's circle of followers and artists. Like many late-19th-century photographers, Eva Watson-Schütze originally had her work exhibited at Alfred Stieglitz's influential New York Gallery.
Watson-Schütze established a new studio in Chicago and soon attracted a large and appreciative clientele for her romantic, yet powerfully composed portraits and figure studies. Beginning in 1902, she and her husband spent their summers in Woodstock, New York. Eventually, Watson-Schütze lived there six months out of the year, working on photography and painting.
In Woodstock, she became associated with Byrdcliffe, a distinctly American arts and crafts colony. Founded by Ralph Radcliffe Whitehead, his wife Jane Byrd McCall, Hervey White (associated with Jane Addams's Hull House) and painter Bolton Brown, Byrdcliffe was conceived under the precept set forth by John Ruskin and William Morris: a movement resistant to the rapid urbanization and industrialization during the latter part of the nineteenth century. They had the vision of developing a utopian community that would foster the education and collaboration of like-minded artists; the mission: producing handmade objects to finance the colony and concurrently holding classes to lend its aesthetic traditions to future generations.
Additionally, in 1929 Watson-Schütze became the director of the Renaissance Society, a non-collecting museum founded in 1915 at the University of Chicago and is Chicago's oldest contemporary art museum. Named for the spirit of rebirth, the society sought to provide university students with a well-rounded education in the arts. Although located on the university campus, the museum has remained an independent institution.
Despite the controversies surrounding modern art following the Armory Show of 1913, the society, from its inception, was quick to embrace modernism. Under Watson-Schütze's direction, from 1929 to 1935, the society presented groundbreaking exhibitions of early modernists such as Pablo Picasso, Georges Braque, Marc Chagall, Jean Arp, Joan Miró, Wassily Kandinsky, Piet Mondrian, Henri Matisse, and Constantin Brancusi, as well as pivotal one-person shows of Isamu Noguchi, Alexander Calder, Fernand Léger, and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.
Eva Watson-Schütze died in 1935.
The Emil Schwarzhaupt Foundation was established in New York on July 21, 1936 by Emil Schwarzhaupt, a German immigrant who came to the United States in 1910 at the age of seventeen. Schwarzhaupt first worked as a salesman for several distilling firms in Chicago. In 1927 he helped to organize the American Medicinal Spirits Company and served on its board of directors until it was purchased by the National Distillers Products Corporation in 1930, when he became director and vice president of that corporation.
In 1933 Schwarzhaupt and Leo Gerngross acquired the Bernheimer Distilling Company in Louisville, KY. Schwarzhaupt became president of the firm and remained in that position after the company was purchased by Schenly Industries, Inc. Emil Schwarzhaupt retired in 1948 and died March 30, 1950.
Schwarzhaupt's interest in promoting an intelligent understanding of American citizenship among the foreign born led him to create the Foundation that bears his name and to bequeath a substantial share of his estate to its work. The bequest in his will resulted in the sale of 113,000 shares of the Bernheimer Company to Schenly Industries for about $3.6 million.
Schwarzhaupt had no intention of making a permanent institution of the Schwarzhaupt Foundation. He stated in his will:
"any moneys, securities, other assets or propertyall be expended within the period of 25 years from and after the date of my death. My reason for imposing the restriction and conditionsbecause of my conviction that in the long run society is benefited by having each generation solve its own problems and provide the necessary funds for so doing."
The initial group of trustees consisted of four friends of Schwarzhaupt: Leo Gerngross (first president), Adolph Hirsch, Hugo Sonnenschein and Frederick Lee. Schwarzhaupt's will stipulated that three years after his death three additional trustees were to be added to the board, "to be selected by the then presiding head of the Catholic Archdiocese of New York, the then acting head of the Federal Council of Churches of New York, and the then acting Rabbi of Temple Emanu-el of New York City."
After the bequests specifically stipulated in his will to family, friends, and a sizeable number of public and private institutions had been disbursed, the trustees of the Foundation were unsure how to proceed with the allocation of the remainder of the funds. Schwarzhaupt, as noted earlier, had suggested in his will that the Foundation's funds could be used to distribute materials on American citizenship to immigrants, to endow a university chair devoted to the study of American citizenship. But Schwarzhaupt did not make these suggestions binding upon the trustees. Adolph Hirsch, who became president of the Foundation after Gerngross's death in 1958, commented on this lack of direction by saying that he and Gerngross had asked Schwarzhaupt for more specific guidance. Schwarzhaupt replied that "if he had known, he would have set it down."
With the purpose of the Foundation unresolved, the trustees decided to meet with Professor Louis Wirth of the University of Chicago in 1951. Wirth was a professor of sociology who was interested in problems of civic leadership and training, especially as it related to urban areas. It was decided that Wirth and others in the department would apply to the Schwarzhaupt Foundation for funds to create a committee to study the theoretical problems of education and citizenship. The Foundation provided $25,300 to establish the Committee on Education for American Citizenship. Louis Wirth became chairman, and other committee members were Daniel Boorstin, Kermit Eby, Walter Johnson, Avery Leiserson, Bessie Louise Pierce, Kenneth J. Rehage, and Ralph W. Tyler.
The final recommendations of the Committee suggested that an advisory group "representing a diversity of backgrounds" be formed to review and evaluate grant applications. Instead, the trustees hired Carl Tjerandsen on a consulting basis in 1953 to review applications submitted to the Foundation and to make recommendations based on the Foundation's statement of purpose. Tjerandsen had helped organize an "Institute on Citizenship" at Kansas State College in the mid-1940s prior to attending graduate school at the University of Chicago where he worked with Professor Louis Wirth. It was as a graduate student that he worked with the Committee on Education for American Citizenship, and after the death of Professor Wirth was appointed by Dean Ralph Tyler as Executive Secretary to the Committee. Based on his analysis of the initial applications to the Foundation, and his previous experience at Kansas State College, Tjerandsen was hired in 1953. It was Tjerandsen who essentially performed the work of the Foundation for its entire duration.
An important feature of the Committee's report was the recommendation that grant-making activities be divided among three discrete areas. The first was defined as the "improvement of citizenship participation on a community basis," the second as support for research on the "process of becoming an American citizen," and the third as funding worthwhile groups related to the Foundation's statement of purpose which did not fall under the first two categories.
The Committee developed five criteria which were adopted by the trustees in evaluating the merits of the applications: 1) Did the application fall within the established guidelines of education and citizenship participation? 2) Were the proposed activities consistent with the aims of the proposals? Did the applicants show how the activities might be expected to change citizen behavior? 3) Did the applicants have the understanding, interest, and skills to complete the project? 4) Was the program practical? Would the resources be adequate to deal with the particular situation? 5) Was the probable cost sufficiently small in relation to expected benefits to warrant the support from the foundation's modest resources?
In addition to the five criteria mentioned above, institutions and groups applying for funding from the Foundation had to meet three further requirements: they had to be tax-exempt organizations; they could not be on the U.S. Attorney General's list of subversive organizations; and they were to be engaged in either research or education to improve citizen participation.
In the course of its existence, the Schwarzhaupt Foundation disbursed $3,361,973 in grants. The kinds of projects receiving Foundation support included: cooperative nursery care in an interracial community (South Chicago Community Center); research projects to identify problems in citizenship organizations (the University of Michigan survey of the League of Women Voters); neighborhood improvement organizations (United Community Fund of San Francisco, Citizens Planning and Housing Association of Baltimore, Hyde Park-Kenwood Community Conference); and organizations to improve the citizen participation of minority groups (Highlander Folk School, Industrial Areas Foundation, Migrant Ministry, American Indian Development, and Unitarian Service Committee). A significant if not disproportionate number of projects from the Chicago area were funded, causing occasional concern among the board members. In fact, Saul Alinsky's Industrial Areas Foundation in Chicago received so much money from Schwarzhaupt that at least one author assumed the Schwarzhaupt Foundation was located in Chicago (see Saul Alinsky's humorous letter of April 14, 1966 in Box 29 Folder 18).
In the 1950s, during the Foundation's greatest period of activity, the trustees met twice a year, later reducing this to one meeting a year (usually held in New York). Before each meeting of the Foundation, Tjerandsen prepared a 1-3 page report on each grant application received along with recommendations for approval or denial. The trustees received these summaries in advance of the board meetings, and then came to a conclusion regarding the project.
In addition to the recommendations (or appraisals) of grant applications that Tjerandsen supplied to the trustees, he also submitted monthly reports. These reports introduced new applications received, results of meetings held with grant recipients, and summaries of reports submitted by the recipients. Then, at the board meeting, Tjerandsen summarized the appraisal and contributed to the discussion that followed. Application was not made unless it reflected a consensus. If any trustee had significant reservations about an application, the proposal was rejected.
The terms of Schwarzhaupt's bequest to the Foundation required that all funds were to be disbursed and the Foundation dissolved within 25 years of Emil Schwarzhaupt's death (March 30, 1950). Accordingly, the trustees met on March 31, 1975 to discuss a course of action. Adolph Hirsch reported that "substantially all the assets of the foundation, both principal and income, had been distributed." The trustees noted that the only project not yet completed was the writing, publication, and distribution of the final report. The trustees concluded that it was premature to adopt a plan of dissolution since activities in connection with the report would require "new contractual relations for the publication and distribution of the report."
The trustees did not meet again until April 15, 1979, when they again considered dissolution of the Foundation. Tjerandsen, who prepared the final report, explained that a draft was being written but that it would take an "extended time" before the report would be ready. The trustees decided to wait until after the report was published before considering dissolution.
The final report, Education for Citizenship: A Foundation's Experience, was published in 1980. Promotional circulars were mailed to individuals and institutions likely to benefit from the report's findings, and copies of the book were distributed without charge to those who returned a postal card.
By late 1981 about 1500 copies of a press run of about 200 had been distributed, and the trustees met in November to consider termination of the Foundation. While the actual date of dissolution is not found in the records, the trustees in their final actions granted some of the remaining funds of the Foundation to the Highlander Center, Resources for Just Communities, Santa Cruz, California, to cover the costs of distributing the final reports, and the remainder to the University of Chicago Library to process the records of the Foundation.
The Reverend Hugh MacDonald Scott (1848-1909) was professor of Church History at the Chicago Theological Seminary. Among other works, he was the author of the Origin and Development of the Nicene Theology. His death occurred before the affiliation of the Chicago Theological Seminary with the University of Chicago.
Seven Woods Press, founded by George Koppelman, was a small, New York based publishing company that operated from 1972-1981. The press concentrated on poetry books, producing seven collections of poetry as well as several broadsides and chapbooks. Some of the authors published by Seven Woods Press include University of Chicago alumnus Susan Fromberg Schaeffer, Chicago native Albert Goldbarth, Jay Wright, winner of MacArthur “genius” award, and Frances Mayes.
George Koppelman graduated from the University of Chicago (S.B. 1961) and operated Seven Woods Press from 1972-1981. Following this, Koppelman was a programmer for IBM. Upon retiring from programming, Koppelman began “Cultured Oyster Books,” a mail-order rare book business specializing in contemporary literature. In 1995 Koppelman became a member of the Grolier Club.
Benjamin Estill Shackelford was born in Richmond, Montana. He received his A.B. from the University of Montana in 1912. Shackelford went on to study mathematics and physics at the University of Chicago, receiving his Ph.D. In 1916 under the direction of Robert Milliken. Shackelford's thesis was titled, "Temperature and Blackening Effects in Helical Tungsten Filaments."
Shailer Mathews was born in Portland, Maine on May 26, 1863. He received an A.B. from Colby College in 1884, and an M.A. in 1887 In the latter year, he also graduated from Newton Theological Seminary, after which he spent a number of years as a professor at Colby. He was on leave during the year 1890-1891, studying at the University of Berlin, and returned with an enthusiasm for research and the historical-scientific approach to all knowledge that became a life-long characteristic.
In 1894, at the invitation of William Rainey Harper, he came to the newly reorganized University of Chicago, where he was to play an influential role until his retirement in 1933. He held a number of positions in the Divinity School of the University; Assistant Professor of New Testament Interpretation, 1894-97; Professor in the same field, 1897-1905; Professor of Systematic Theology, 1905-1906; Professor of Historical and Comparative Theology, 1906-1933; junior Dean, 1899-1908; Dean, 1908-1933. At the same time he played a very active part as a member of the administrative council of the University as a whole and as a participant in countless faculty and administrative activities He found time to write or to edit more than a score of books, many of which were extremely influential and widely read, particularly those dealing with the new approach to religious knowledge then widely disparaged as "Modernism" and with the social application of the Christian Gospel. He edited a journal of general observation and comment on world affairs, "The World Today", from 1903 to 1911; he also was editor of "The Biblical World", 1913-20 For a long period he was an editorial adviser on religious books for Harpers
Dr. Mathews did not believe that real scholarship could prosper in an "ivory-tower" and he was always active in a great variety of organizations and associations outside the University. He was a member of the Chicago Co-operative Council of City Missions (the forerunner of the Council of Churches), 1908-1915; of the Chicago Baptist Executive Council, 1910-1919; and of many other similar groups. His abilities as a leader and parliamentary officer were drawn upon in many ways within these groups He was the first president of the Federal Council of Churches, 1912-1916, and had much to do with the formulation of its policies and procedures. In 1915 he served at a very critical juncture as president of the Northern Baptist Convention and is credited with being largely responsible for saving that body from splitting in two over the question of Modernism versus Fundamentalism. From 1929 to 1932 he was president of the Chicago Church Federation.
The breadth of Mathews' interests is indicated by his association with a number of other activities not officially related to the churches or directly to theology. He was, for example, director of religious work for the Chautauqua Institute from 1912-1934, most of which time he was also a trustee of the association and a major figure in Chautauqua's development. In 1920 he served as a member of the Kobe College Foundation and made a trip to Japan which made him a national spokesman for Japanese and American friendship. His interest in politics and social welfare is indicated by his membership on the board of trustees of the Church Peace Union in 1914, as well as his participation and encouragement in the work of Jane Addams' Hull House. However, he strongly supported the cause of the Allies once the United States entered the first World War and from 1917 to 1918 served at the appointment of Illinois' governor as State Director of War Savings. He co-operated and supported progressive movements in politics led by men like Charles Merriam in Chicago and Theodore Roosevelt on the national scene.
Mathews died on October 23, 1941.
David Lee Shillinglaw (b. June 6, 1889, d. February 13, 1976) was a World War I-veteran, American Legionnaire, investment banker, and a Chicago civic leader. Born in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, Shillinglaw was raised in Independence, Iowa and later Rowley, Iowa following the death of his father in 1900. He attended a country school until the age of thirteen, and then worked on the family farm until age eighteen.
Shillinglaw attended the Iowa State Teachers College for four years, majoring in History and Economics, and teaching courses in both subjects during the summer months. In 1911 he entered the University of Iowa as a Senior and completed his Bachelor of Arts degree. He went on to earn his L.L.D. from the University of Iowa Law School in 1915. Following graduation, Shillinglaw practiced law in Waterloo, Iowa and organized several businesses.
When the United States declared war in 1917, Shillinglaw immediately applied for active service. He was rejected from the first training camp, but eventually found his way to Europe in September 1917 as a member of the YMCA American Expeditionary Forces (AEF). He was put in charge of the YMCA AEF's construction work in Europe, organizing the design, manufacture, and erection of all buildings used by the YMCA throughout France. He entered direct army service in July 1918 under the command of General Dawes in the engineer corps. Here, Shillinglaw was in charge of lumber supplies not produced in French forests. After the Armistice, he was asked to return to the YMCA AEF in January 1919 to lead the salvage and liquidation of YMCA properties throughout Europe. He secured 48,000,000 francs for the Perkins Commission, and returned to the United States in 1920.
Shillinglaw held various positions following the war. Returning first to Iowa he was founder of the First Radio Corporation in Iowa. He was an assistant sales manager of the Chicago branch of the Liquid Carbonic Company in 1922. He began work for investment bankers Forgan, Gray and Company in 1923 and was eventually made Vice President. In 1933 he founded his own investment firm, the David L. Shillinglaw Company, later Shillinglaw, Bolger and Company, Inc.
In addition to his leadership in numerous corporations throughout Chicago, Shillinglaw served in the American Legion. He joined the Legion in 1919, and was commander of the Advertising Men's Post in Chicago. He was President of the Cook County Council, and later a member of the National Defense Committee. Shillinglaw was elected the Illinois State Commander of the American Legion in 1928, and was made a member of the National Executive Committee in 1929.
Shillinglaw married Marie Schmidt of Chicago in 1930.
In addition to his business ventures and service in the American Legion, Shillinglaw was active in politics. He was a Republican precinct captain for twenty-five years, Chief Doorkeeper at the Republican Convention in Philadelphia in 1940, and Assistant State Director of Finance for Illinois from 1940 to 1944. He was active in many local and state campaigns. In 1953 Shillinglaw was sponsored by Everett Dirksen for an appointment to the United Nations Economic and Social Council. His appointment stalled, however, in the federal security check. At the height of the McCarthy era, the FBI questioned Shillinglaw's membership in the Institute of Pacific Relations. Shillinglaw was never appointed to the U.N.
Throughout his career, Shillinglaw lectured widely on finance, foreign relations, democracy, and civil liberties. A number of his addresses and articles were published in The New York Times, The Economist, and other leading newspapers. He was active in numerous educational and philanthropic organizations, including the board of governors of the International House at the University of Chicago, and the board of the Fulbright Scholarship. He established the David Lee Shillinglaw Distinguished Service Professorship at the University of Chicago in 1972. In 1971, the University of Chicago published Shillinglaw's book about his experience in World War I: An American in the Army and YMCA, 1917-1920: The Diary of David Lee Shillinglaw.
Mr. Shillinglaw died in Chicago at the age of 86.
Harrington Shortall was born to a wealthy Chicago family in 1895. He attended the Thatcher School in Ojai, California and Harvard University. Like many young American composers, Shortall studied with Nadia Boulanger in Paris. During World War I he served in the U.S. Navy, and afterwards began a life of music composition.
During the 1930s, Shortall’s work was included as part of the Federal Music Project Composer’s Forum, an event sponsored by the Works Progress Administration. In 1939 his "The Night is Well-Nigh Spent," was conducted by Nadia Boulanger at The Library of Congress Coolidge Theater.
Shortall was a composer for most of his adult life, although he rarely had his works published or performed after the 1940s. His work is characterized by its clarity, directness, and an embrace of pre-romantic compositional models. Simultaneously, it is music grounded in the everyday life and holiday celebrations of wealthy Chicagoans.
Shortall’s work as a music educator took two forms. He produced (although never published) a piano method book, and served as a lecturer at The Chicago Theological Seminary and Rosary College (now Dominican University) in River Forest, Illinois. Additionally, Shortall copied music from the collection of Chicago’s Newberry Library and produced his own treatises on music composition and theory.
During the 1940s, Shortall briefly taught courses at the Chicago Theological Seminary, Rosary College, and the Latin School. He died in Evanston in 1984.
There are few biographical materials housed in the James Silverberg Papers. He worked with Gitel P. Steed as a graduate student, traveling with her to Gujarat, India, as part of the Columbia University Research in Contemporary India Field Project. He was accompanied by his wife, Donna. Silverberg later taught at the University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee. He died in 2001.
Maud Slye was born in Minneapolis in 1869. Many published sources give her birth date as February 8, 1879, but U.S. Census records indicate that she was born in 1869; it may be that claimed the later birth date to avoid mandatory retirement. In 1895, Slye entered the University of Chicago as an undergraduate student and worked as secretary for President William Rainey Harper to support herself. Following a breakdown brought on by the strain of full-time work and study, Slye relocated to the East Coast and received her A.B. degree from Brown University in 1899. She taught at Rhode Island State Normal School until 1905, and in 1908 returned to the University of Chicago as a graduate assistant to Professor Charles Otis Whitman.
Slye began her pioneering research on cancer heredity in mice soon after her arrival in Chicago, and in 1911 joined the University's newly opened Sprague Memorial Institute. In 1919 she was appointed director of the Cancer Laboratory at the University of Chicago, and in 1926 was promoted to associate professor of pathology, a position she held until her retirement in 1944. Slye performed her research with only minimal financial support from the University, often paying for mouse food and other supplies out of her personal stipend. Her first research assistant, Harriet Holmes, worked without pay.
Slye faced criticism from other pathologists and researchers for her contention that heredity played a key role in susceptibility to cancer; her research challenged prevailing notions of cancer as being at least partly caused by contagions. Although her hypotheses about heredity were later shown to be a simplification of the complex role genetics play in cancer susceptibility, her studies were crucial in establishing heredity as a key area for cancer research.
Slye sometimes had to battle gender-based stereotypes and criticism, including questions from the press about whether she was “afraid” of her mice and a cruel rumor that circulated for a time in the cancer research field, charging that she had refused to share her research results with scientists from the New York Institute for Cancer Research and had cried when questioned about her findings. Nevertheless, Slye was recognized for her work, receiving a gold medal from the American Medical Society in 1914 and another from the American Radiological Association in 1922. She was also awarded the Ricketts Prize from the University of Chicago in 1915 and an honorary doctorate from Brown University in 1937.
In addition to her scientific work, Slye published two volumes of poetry, Songs and Solaces (1934) and I in the Wind (1936). She died in Chicago in 1954.
Dr. Alexander Spitzer was born on October 22, 1868 in Miskolc, Hungary. He studied medicine at the University of Vienna and graduated in 1892 with a doctor of medicine degree. Following graduation, he worked in affiliation to Richard von Krafft-Ebing's psychiatry clinic, H. Obersteiner's Neurology Institute, and S. Exner's Physiology Institute. While he preferred to pursue his scientific investigations independently, relying on a moderate inherited fortune, the inflation of World War I forced him to assume teaching positions. In 1914, Spitzer became an assistant to Julius Tandler at the University of Vienna's Anatomy Institute. In 1919, he earned his habilitation in anatomy and became an assistant under Otto Marburg at the Neurology Institute of the University of Vienna, which he continued until 1933. During this position, in 1924, he was named Extraordinary Professor for the Anatomy and Pathology of the Nervous System.
In the early stages of his career, Spitzer's interests were focused on neurology and psychiatry. After the time he spent with Tandler, he developed an interest in circulation, which guided him towards investigating the ontogenetic and phylogenetic development of the human heart. From there, Spitzer researched in more detail the abnormal development of the heart in transposition of the arterial trunks. He published numerous articles on the subject throughout his later career.
He was persecuted by the Nazis and in 1938 expelled from his position at the University of Vienna. It must be around this time and under difficult conditions that he completed the manuscript of the monograph "Die Transposition und Inversion des Herzens im Lichte der phylogenetischen Theorie (The Transposition and Inversion of Hearts in Light of the Phylogenetic Theory)," presenting his whole theory, together with a separate manuscript that responds to his critics, "Beiträge zur Kritik der phylogenetischen und ontogenetischen Transpositonstheorie (Articles on the Critique of the Phylogenetic and Ontogenetic Transposition Theory)."
In 1942, Spitzer was deported by the Nazis to the concentration camp in Theresienstadt (Terezín, in today's Czechia). He had already been suffering from heart disease at that advanced age. He died on January 16, 1943. The cause of his death is identified by the physicians in the concentration camp as myocardial degeneration.
Spitzer's manuscript presents the fullest version of his theory and includes numerous illustrations (of which only a few are in the collection). The latest work he cites in the book is from 1937, thus enabling the dating of the manuscript from 1937-1942. The second part of the book responds to the critics of Spitzer's theory. Spitzer later decided to develop this part as a separate book, which is also included in the collection.
Spitzer's notes on the documents show that he created multiple copies of both books, prepared them for publication by adding guiding notes to typesetters, and associated the copies with certain places (such as USA and Switzerland). It is likely that he intended to send the works to different places for publication. The manuscripts seem to have entered the possession of Dr. Emil Schwarz (1865-1955) who had been a physician at the University of Vienna and later immigrated to the U.S. to escape Nazi persecution. In Schwarz's words, the manuscript was committed to his care "after a complicated journey." Schwarz then entrusted the manuscript to the custody of Dr. Richard Langendorf, who also escaped Nazi persecution, immigrated to the U.S., and worked at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago together with Schwarz. Eventually, in 1969, Langendorf handed the manuscript to Dr. Maurice Lev (1909-1994), a prominent heart disease specialist.
Already in 1951, Maurice Lev, together with Dr. Aloysius Vass, had published a book that consists of an English translation of Spitzer's 1923 article on the phylogenetic theory of malformed hearts and an analysis of the theory (under the title "The Architecture of Normal and Malformed Hearts: a Phylogenetic Theory of Their Development"). In the introduction, Lev reveals the existence of "an unpublished manuscript summarizing [Spitzer's] whole theory" and informs that "[t]his is now being translated by the authors and will be published […] in the near future." Apparently, this was not accomplished and Spitzer's final work remained in manuscript form.Francis P. Squibb was born July 20, 1927 in Brookline, MA. He earned his B.A. in Philosophy from Dartmouth College and a M.A. in Social Philosophy from the University of Illinois. After serving two years in the U.S. Army, Squibb became a jazz musician in the Chicago area.
From 1952-1954, Squibb edited and prepared jazz records for William Russell in Chicago. He then worked for the American Peoples Encyclopedia from 1954-1964. During his tenure as the chief editor at the University of Alabama Press from 1965-1980, he published Storyville, New Orleans by Al Rose. His continued interest in jazz led him to serve as a curator at the William Ransom Hogan Archives of New Orleans Jazz at Tulane University from 1965-1980.
Squibb also wrote liner notes for jazz recordings including Montego Joe’s “Arriba! Con Montego Joe,” Jimmy Witherspoon’s “Evenin’ Blues,” and Shirley Scott’s “Soul Shoutin’.”
Squibb died September 1, 2003 in Flossmoor, IL.
The Work Incentive Program (WIN) was established by the U.S. Department of Labor in 1967-1968. WIN was designed to increase employability and employment among those receiving welfare under Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC). It required states to offer job training and job-seeking assistance. A voluntary program until 1971, incentives for participation ranged from exemptions in calculating AFDC need to actual incentive payments. WIN programs were federally funded and locally administered by employment services and social services.
As a research institution and public service provider, the University of Chicago's School of Social Service Administration (SSA) was involved with local administration of the WIN program. Working closely with the University of Michigan's School of Social Work and Case Western University's School of Applied Social Science, SSA produced a number of reports on the program's administration and its efficacy on the ground.
The WIN Program met with widespread criticism and was generally recognized as having failed to accomplish its intended goals. By the early 1970s it was clear that many enrollees were not finding jobs. Amendments to the Social Security Act in 1971, 1980, 1982, and 1984 attempted to improve program administration. By 1990 it had been phased out by a new program, Job Opportunities and Basic Skills (JOBS).
Amos Alonzo Stagg was born in 1862, in West Orange, New Jersey. He was the fifth child of eight and his father was a laborer and cobbler. Early on Stagg's family instilled moral, religious ethics into his already resilient character. Stagg worked and attended public school until 1883. Following his graduation from high school, Stagg, aged twenty-one, enrolled in post-graduate courses at Philips Exeter Academy in order to prepare for Yale University Entrance exams.
In 1884, Amos Alonzo Stagg entered Yale as a freshman. He intended to study divinity and become a minister. A popular, if not mediocre student, Stagg excelled in numerous sports including baseball and football, sang in the glee club, and was the financial manager of the Yale News. It was Stagg's devotion to athletics, which marked his tenure at Yale. By his senior year in school, Stagg, already a star catcher on the baseball team, joined the football team that provided him with a life-long love of the game and a dedication to amateur sports. In 1889, Stagg enrolled as a full-time student at Yale's Divinity School, but soon left because of his poor ability to preach sermons.
Stagg soon found work in the athletic department at the new International Young Men's Christian Association training school in Springfield, Massachusetts. His success as a football coach at the college earned him great notoriety throughout intercollegiate athletics. At this time his former Yale Divinity School professor, William Rainey Harper, to head up the Department of Physical Culture at the newly formed University of Chicago, contacted Stagg. Stagg's appointment came with full tenure, an assistant professorship and substantial salary, setting a precedent in selections of athletic directors in American universities. Harper and Stagg soon developed a life-long, intimate friendship that had a significant impact in the development of athletics and football at the University of Chicago.
In 1892, Stagg coached and often played in the first football season at the University of Chicago. A "green" team, Stagg's innovative coaching and personal charisma helped earn the new football players success in the field. The early years of the 1890's marked the rise of Stagg's presence not only in athletics, but also within the administration of "Harper's university."
1894 brought in another prosperous season for the "Maroons." The addition of a new field donated by the prosperous Chicago retailer Marshall Field and a series of successful games played in the West Coast against schools like Stanford provided Stagg with a tremendous amount of respect and popularity among the faculty and students. Intercollegiate football gave the university a significant measure of prestige.
It was at this time he met and married Stella Robertson, a young freshman from upstate New York. Their marriage was an extremely happy one and Stella, referred to as Stagg's beloved "assistant coach," often sat in the press stands, offering commentary on the football games. Together they had three children, two of whom followed their father in careers as coaches.
Under President Harper's administration, Coach Stagg enjoyed a tremendous amount of influence in the policies governing intercollegiate athletics and the Department of Physical Culture at the university. Preferential treatment of players, special athletic scholarships and controversial recruiting tactics were supported by the office of the university president. Football generated a lot of revenue for the school and even more enthusiasm from students, faculty and alumni alike.
Coach Stagg's enhanced reputation on campus allowed him a great deal of autonomy in dealing with athletics. Affectionately dubbed the "old man," he was bold and impatient with anyone who challenged his manner of leading the Department of Physical Culture and the football team. National and collegiate reforms of the game, coaching, and recruiting had little impact on Stagg's dynamic. Even the loss of Coach Stagg's long time friend and confidant, William Rainey Harper, did little to diminish his authority. The successive president, Harry Pratt Judson continued to encourage and protect Stagg and the game of football.
During the years of 1906 through 1924, Coach Stagg enjoyed success as an innovator for the game of football. He has been credited with the invention of the modern "bowl" game, the numbered jersey and the use of the forward pass. He was a productive tactician and strategist for football. Not only did Stagg coach several championship seasons; he was also the head athletic trainer for track, baseball, and basketball. From 1906 to 1932, Stagg served as a member of the American Olympic Games Committee. This period also was distinguished by his increasing difficulties with the administration of the University of Chicago.
Following the presidencies of Ernest DeWitt Burton and Max Mason, the "Maroon's" football team showed a decline in the quality of the player and the performance of the game. The university administration sought out more serious and committed students and checked the recruiting tactics of Stagg's department. After the champion season of 1924, Stagg's team went downhill.
The election of Robert Maynard Hutchins in 1929 to the presidency of the University of Chicago marked the end of Stagg's influence on campus. Hutchins' commitment to academics and to the welfare of the student body placed athletics in a lesser position. The reorganization of Stagg's post and the increasing pressures placed upon him to retire left the "old man" with little alternative. Stagg left the University of Chicago in 1933. A few years later, football would be abolished at the school. Amos Alonzo Stagg took over as athletic director and football coach for the College of the Pacific in California. Coaching well up into his nineties, Stagg continued to enjoy many successful seasons with the football team. He and his beloved wife Stella died in California in 1965.
Aron M. Mathieu was the founder and publisher of Minicam Photography (founded in 1937 and later renamed Modern Photography). In 1942 Mathieu met the photographer Alfred Stieglitz and as a result of that meeting obtained Stieglitz's complete set of Camera Work.
Zena Sutherland was born in Winthrop, Massachusetts in 1915 and raised in Chicago. She graduated from the University of Chicago in 1937 and in 1958 earned a master's degree in library science from the University, intending to pursue a career as a medical librarian. Her experience as a mother of three children inspired her to take several courses in children's literature.
Sutherland was among the world's most influential and prolific scholars of young people's literature. She was associated with the University of Chicago Graduate Library School throughout her career, and served as a faculty member there from 1972 to 1986. She wrote 19 books and reviewed more than 30,000 children's books during more than 40 years as a critic of children's literature. From 1958 until her retirement in 1985, she served as reviewer and editor of the Bulletin of the Center for Children's Books, a comprehensive guide to all the latest literature published for children. She wrote monthly columns as children's books reviewer for the Saturday Review from 1966 to 1972 and also served as children's book editor for the Chicago Tribune. In 1972, she succeeded May Hill Arbuthnot as author of Children and Books, a classic textbook in the field of library science and children's literature for which she produced the fourth through ninth editions.
She served on numerous book award juries including the National Book Award, the Hans Christian Andersen Award, the Jane Addams Book Award, the Laura Ingalls Wilder Award, the Caldecott Award, and the Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction of which she was the permanent chair. As a member of the American Library Association, she was a jurist and member of the Newberry and Caldecott award committees. Sutherland also served on the United States Board of Books for Young People, acting as a children's literary ambassador in South Africa, China, and other countries.
In 1983, two former students used the royalties from a Festschrift in her honor to establish the Zena Sutherland Lecture Series, and the Lab Schools at the University of Chicago also recently established the Zena Sutherland Prize in Children's Literature, which is awarded by children of the School. In 1998 she was awarded the Norman MacLean Faculty Award, and named professor emeritus Zena Sutherland.
Sutherland married Roland Bailey in 1937. They had three children before divorcing in 1961. In 1964, she was remarried to Alec Sutherland, director of broadcasting and head of the Center for Continuing Education at the University of Chicago. Zena B. Sutherland died in Chicago on June 12, 2002.
Manley Hawn Thompson was born in Zanesville, Ohio on April 12, 1917. He received both his A.B. and A.M. from the University of Chicago in 1938, and a Ph.D. in philosophy in 1942. Upon completing school, Thompson joined the U.S. Naval reserves, and remained until 1946. After the war, he taught for three years at the University of Toronto before returning to the University of Chicago in 1949 as an Assistant professor in philosophy. With the exception of visiting lectureships and other temporary associations with other universities, Thompson spent the remainder of his career at the University of Chicago.
Thompson married Margaret Phyllis MacKenzie and the couple had three children: Katherine, Roderick, and Clark.
Thompson's early interests centered on C. S. Peirce and, to a lesser extent, American pragmatism more generally. His only book-length work, The Pragmatic Philosophy of C. S. Peirce, was based on his dissertation and published in 1953. Thompson had a general interest in metaphysics and epistemology, particularly that of Immanuel Kant. He was a leading authority on Kant's theory of categories, and at the time of his death, was working on a manuscript dealing with Kant's account of our understanding of mathematical concepts. Thompson also published articles on Aristotle and W. V. O. Quine, semantics and logic. He authored the Metaphysics monograph for the Princeton Studies in Philosophy.
Thompson's professional career included serving on the Harvard philosophy department's visiting committee and as a member of Princeton's Associate Council on the Humanities from 1960 through 1965. He was active in the Aristotelian Society, the C. S. Peirce Society, the North American Kant Society, and was president of the American Philosophical Association in 1983.
Thompson retired from the University of Chicago in 1987. In 1991 he was diagnosed with a form of Parkinson's disease that gradually affected his ability to read and write, though he continued to correspond as much as possible with colleagues and former students. Thompson died in 1994.
George Townshend was born on February 28, 1724, in London. His parents were Charles Townshend, 3rd Viscount Townshend, and Audrey Ethelreda Townshend (née Harrison). After his education at Eton College and St. John’s College in Cambridge, Townshend joined the army in the summer of 1743 and was swiftly involved in the Battle of Dettingen in June 1743. Townshend rose to the rank of captain in the 7th Regiment of Dragoons in April 1745.
While in Belgium in 1747, Townshend ran unopposed for a position as Member of Parliament in Norfolk. He become captain of the 1st Regiment of Footguards and lieutenant colonel In the Army on February 25, 1748. As an MP, he was personally responsible for ensuring the passage of the Militia Act of 1757. On May 6, 1758, Townshend was promoted to colonel and took control of the 64th Regiment of Foot.
Townshend assumed command of a brigade in Quebec during the Seven Years’ War under General James Wolfe. When Wolfe died in 1759 and his second-in-command was wounded, Townshend took command of the British forces and received Quebec City’s surrender on September 18, 1759. Townshend was promoted to the rank of major general on March 6, 1761, and went on to command a division of the Anglo-Portuguese army to protect Portugal during the Spanish Invasion.
After the Seven Years’ War, Townshend became the Lieutenant-General of the Ordnance in the Greenville Ministry in 1763 and succeeded his father as Viscount Townshend in 1764. He went on to become Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and introduced measures to increase the general standing of Ireland’s military and economy. Along with Prime Minister Lord North, he also succeeded in imposing much greater British control over Ireland.
In 1773, Townshend married Anne Montgomery, his second wife (his first, Charlotte Compton, had died in 1770). Together they had six children, one of whom was the Lady Charlotte Townshend, born on March 16, 1776. Unfortunately, little is known of the life of his children, besides his youngest son, James Nugent Boyle Bernard Townshend, a British naval commander. Later in life, Townshend continued his rise through the ranks of the military, eventually being promoted to the position of field marshal, the highest rank in the British Army, in 1796. Townshend died and was buried in his family home in Norfolk on September 14, 1807.
The Board of Trustees, currently consisting of 55 members, governs the University of Chicago under provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, and Statutes. As well as providing financial support and fundraising leadership, the Board of Trustees oversees the University’s program goals, financial and physical resources.The board is made of 9 standing committees: Audit, Executive, Financial Planning, Institutional Capacity, Investment, Medical Center Executive Committee, Outward Engagement, Trusteeship and Governance, and University Advancement.
The Tuesday Club, an organization of University of Chicago faculty members, came into being as a result of a series of preliminary luncheon meetings among interested parties at the Quadrangle Club during December of 1943. The planning group at this initial stage consisted of professors Gertrude Smith (Greek), Henri Frankfort (Oriental Languages and Literature), Ralph Marcus (Greek; Oriental Languages and Literature), John Wilson (Egyptology), Thorkild Jacobson (Oriental Institute), Jakob Larsen (History), Frank Knight (Economics), Edwin Aubrey (Divinity School), Ralph Gerard (Physiology), and Edgar Wind (Art). The planners invited selected colleagues to join them for what they described as "an interdepartmental circle" interested in "the history of science and culture and in methodology." The first regular meeting of the club was held on January 18, 1944 at 8:00 p.m. in the office of John Wilson, Director of the Oriental Institute. Those attending enjoyed light refreshments and heard Thorkild Jacobsen speak on "The Validity of the Ethnical Approach to the Study of Culture." It was not until April 27, 1944, however, that members outlined informal rules and officially designated the new faculty club the Tuesday Club. These informal rules mandated that the club would be limited to eighteen members and that a nominating committee of two or three members plus a secretary would be chosen to maintain membership. It was also decided to appoint a chairman who would facilitate discussions after program presentations. Dues were collected from members, apparently to cover expenses for refreshments.
From its inception the club included faculty from the humanities, the social sciences, the physical sciences, and also the professional schools. Unlike similar faculty clubs such as the Innominates or the X-Club, the Tuesday Club was not a dinner club, although it did hold an annual dinner at the Quandrangle Cub to which members' spouses were invited. At regular meetings, members were also permitted to bring guests. By the early 1950s the club grew to embrace over thirty University of Chicago faculty members, including many nationally and internationally known scholars. Illustrative of the caliber and diversity of Tuesday Club participants is the 1958 member roster which includes Mircea Eliade (Divinity School), Eric Hamp (Linguistics), Frank Knight (Economics), Robert S. Mulliken (Physics), and Sol Tax (Anthropology). In 1962 participation had dwindled enough to precipitate the circulation of a questionnaire to remaining members designed to ascertain whether sufficient interest remained to keep the club alive. Although many expressed continued interest, there is no evidence of activity beyond 1965. The records of the Tuesday Club remained in the possession of one of its final officers, Robert M. Grant, until 1988, when they were given to the Special Collections Research Center.
James Hayden Tufts (1862-1942) was on the faculty of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Chicago from 1892-1930. In 1905 he was appointed Chairman of the Philosophy Department, a position he held until his retirement from the University in 1930. In addition to departmental duties, he was Dean of the Senior Colleges (1898-1904), Dean of Faculties and Vice-President of the University (1924-26), Acting President of the University (1925-26), and editor of the International Journal of Ethics (1914-1930).
Born in Monson, Massachusetts, James Tufts was educated at his father's grammar school and subsequently at Amherst College (B.A., 1883), Yale Divinity School (B.D., 1889), and the University of Freiburg (Ph.D., 1892). After graduating from Yale, he accepted a teaching position in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Michigan. During a holiday visit to his home in Massachusetts, he received an invitation to call on his former professor, William Rainey Harper, at Yale. Sharing with Tufts his plans for a new university in Chicago, Harper invited him to join the faculty. Tufts resigned from the University of Michigan, married Cynthia Whitaker, and set sail for Germany to begin one year of study at the University of Freiburg, with the agreement that he would be in Chicago, prepared to teach, by August, 1892. While in Germany, Tufts and Harper corresponded frequently [Tufts' letters to Harper, dating from 1890-92, are in Box XV, Folder 12 of the William Rainey Harper Personal Papers]. At Harper's request, Tufts provided information about various candidates for positions at the University, and he advised Harper on acquisitions for the Philosophy Library.
Ralph W. Tyler was born in Chicago, IL on April 22, 1902, the son of Reverend William A. Tyler. He earned his BA at Doane University in Nebraska and his Master's degree in 1923 at the University of Nebraska. Tyler's Ph.D. was granted by the University of Chicago in 1927. After teaching at the University of Nebraska (1922-1927) and the University of North Carolina (1927-1929), Tyler moved to Ohio State University as Professor of Education and Research Associate of the Bureau of Educational Research (1929-1938).
Tyler specialized in measuring the application of education. Before arriving at the University of Chicago he led "the eight year study" which measured to what degree students absorbed information given to them by their teachers. The study showed that children learned best at their own pace and students best retained information compounded by experience. This program led to national testing for pre-college students.
When Tyler met with the President of the University of Chicago to recommend methods for testing applicants, the thirty five year old professor held a reputation as a progressive educator who smoked cigars constantly and raced cars against trains. Although University of Chicago president Robert Hutchins believed in classical education, in 1938 he risked hiring Tyler as the Chief Examiner and Director of the Board of Examinations, Professor of Education, and Chair of the Department of Education. Tyler accepted and moved to Chicago with his entire testing staff.
Tyler became acting Dean of Social Sciences when Dean Robert Redfield took a leave of absence in 1946. Tyler was officially appointed as dean in 1948. He streamlined the committees between the departments and promoted interdisciplinary studies. Additionally, Tyler participated in University life by contributing to the Great Books Program and to the Chicago Roundtable radio discussions. Additionally, Tyler continuously published the results of his work.
Through the course of his tenure at the University of Chicago his positions included: Chairman, Department of Education, University of Chicago (1938-48); University Examiner, University of Chicago (1938-53); Dean, Division of the Social Sciences, University of Chicago (1948-53); Director, Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Stanford, California (1953-67); Acting President, Social Science Research Council (1971-72); Vice President, Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions (1975-78); and President, System Development Foundation (1969-until his death?).
Additionally, Tyler served as the official Director of the Examinations Staff of the U.S. Armed Forces Institute from 1943-1954 during which the military asked him to administer tests to measure the effectiveness of its training programs.
In the 1960's, Tyler worked with his colleagues on the National Assessment of Educational Progress, measuring educational achievements around the United States. Tyler advised six U.S. Presidents and assisted in writing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. After leaving the University of Chicago in 1953, Tyler moved to California as the founding director of the Center for the Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, funded by the Ford Foundation (1953-1967). Throughout the 1980's Tyler commuted from California to the University of Massachusetts at Amherst to teach and advise the Coalition for School Improvement.
Tyler's style of testing became common and was known as the "Tyler Rationale". His methods were initially considered unorthodox because he advocated the involvement of teachers and parents at every level of school reform. Tyler believed that the purpose of education was to teach children how to function as citizens. He stated, "Carrying on citizenship is the most important reason for public education…As society keeps moving forward, we need to have more and more education to understand problems that are much more complex than those that were dealt with in 1776."
Tyler's wife, Flora V. Tyler passed away before he did. Ralph Tyler suffered from cancer and passed away on February 18, 1994. He was survived by his brother, Keith I. Tyler; his daughters, Helen Parisi and Ann Fathy; and his son, Ralph W. Tyler, Jr.
Some of his more famous projects included: Director of Evaluation, Eight-Year Study (1934-42); Director, Cooperative Study in General Education (1939-45); Director, Examinations Staff, U.S. Armed Forces Institute (1943-53); Chairman, Exploratory Committee on Assessing the Progress of Education (1964-68); and Senior Consultant, Science Research Associates, Inc. (1967-82).
He was also a member of a number of associations and throughout the course of his career held broad associations well beyond the University of Chicago including: Member, National Advisory Mental Health Council (1959-63); Chairman, National Commission on Resources for Youth (1964-79); Chairman, National Commission for Cooperative Education (1962-75); Honorary Life Chairman (1975-?); President, National Academy of Education (1965-69); Chairman, Research Advisory Council of the U.S. Office of Education (1967-70); Member, National Science Board, 1962-68; Vice Chairman (1966-68); and Member, National Advisory Council on the Education of Disadvantaged Children (1965-72)
Some of his notable publications were: Constructing Achievement Tests (1934); Appraising and Recording Student Progress, with E.R. Smith (1942); Basic Principles of Curriculum and Instruction (1949); Educational Evaluation; New Roles, New Means, editor (1969); Crucial Issues in Testing, with R. Wolf (1974); Perspectives on American Education (1976); "Changing Concepts of Educational Evaluation." [Monograph] International Journal of Educational Research 10 (1986).
The John Crerar Library was founded in 1894 and was initially housed in the Marshall Field Building (111 N. State Street, Chicago). By 1961 a larger space was needed to house the rapidly growing collection and a new building was constructed at the Illinois Institute of Technology. This building opened in 1963 and the collection was housed there until 1981. By the late 1970s the collection had once again expanded beyond the capacity of its building. On April 13, 1981 an agreement was reached between the Crerar Library Board of Directors and the University of Chicago to consolidate the collection with the University of Chicago's science collection.
A new building was constructed on the University of Chicago campus to house the consolidated collection and opened on September 10, 1984. The structure was designed by Stubbins Associates of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and has 160,836 square feet of floor space, costing $22 million to build. It has capacity for 1.3 million volumes. This building currently houses the John Crerar Library collection.
This collection documents religious organizations and activities at the University of Chicago.
The Board of Social Service and Religion was formed in 1927 to organize religious activity on campus and within the community. The board consisted of faculty and students and was in charge of the administration of chapel services.
The Canterbury Club is the Episcopal organization of the University and remains an active student organization as of 2019. The club was originally led by Canon Bernard Iddings Bell from 1946 to 1954 and then Rev. William H. Baar in 1955. As Rev. Baar was director of the building, Brent House was chosen as the University Center for Episcopalians.
The Christian Union was a semi-official religious organization of students and faculty at the University. The Union organized Christian sermons and vesper services in the 1890s.
The Hillel Foundation was founded in 1940 by Maurice Pekarsky and remains active as of 2019. The foundation organizes and funds Jewish community activities, religious services, various public lectures and seminars. In 1943, the Raymond Karasik House was donated to the Foundation and became the center of the Hillel Program. The Karasik House was renamed the Johanna and Herman H. Newberger Hillel Center in 1989.
The Interchurch Council and Committee was an interfaith religious group on campus. Religious activities of various denominational groups were organized by the Interchurch Council of the University.
The Lutheran Council was an organization of Lutheran students and faculty at the University.
The Pastors’ Institute was founded in 1931 by the Divinity School of the University and organized annual seminars, classes, and discussion groups.
The Porter Foundation was an organization of several Presbyterian denominations that sponsored student fellowships and organized public lectures, a student published newsletter, the Porter Views, and volunteer services. The foundation was named after Jeremiah Porter, who in 1833 founded the First Presbyterian Church in Chicago.
Before the formation of the Calvert Club, the Catholic Club was formed in 1902 and reorganized in 1904 as the Brownson Club. In 1924, the Calvert Club was formed, but was not officially recognized until 1941, when Father Joseph D. Connerton was appointed as a permanent chaplain. The building that is now the Calvert House was built in 1902 and in 1924 it was chosen to be the Catholic Center at the University.
The first Committee on University Ranking Policy was appointed on May 16, 1966, by the Council of the University Senate and charged to study "...the consequences over the coming summer and fall of adhering to or reversing the present university policy of submitting rank upon the request of the student." The expansion of the Vietnam War in the mid-1960's had made the student deferment no longer automatic, and local draft boards were using, among other measures, a student's rank among other males in his class to determine whether to grant a deferment. Growing dissatisfaction with the University's policy of compiling male class ranks had culminated the week before with the occupation of the Administration Building for six days by groups of students, notably Students Against the Rank.
The University of Chicago Settlement House was established in 1894 by the Philanthropic Committee of the University of Chicago Christian Union in the Back of the Yards neighborhood of Chicago. With previous experience at Hull House, Mary McDowell led the organization as Head Resident and played an integral role in Settlement activities until her death in 1936. The Settlement House provided English instruction, citizenship and legal assistance, and medical care, among many other services, to the largely European immigrant population of the Back of the Yards community. In 1966, the Settlement was merged with the Chicago Commons.
One of the five original divisions of the University, the Extension was created, much like its British counterparts, "to bring as far as possible its [the University's] many advantages for culture and instruction to people who are prevented by circumstances from going to the University itself." President William Rainey Harper, veteran of the Chautauqua Movement and professor of Semitic languages, first defined the Extension's purposes and scope; under Harper's direction, adult education in the early University became a secular embodiment of his personal evangelical vision.
t the beginning the Extension Division was organized into six departments, each administered by a secretary who reported to the division's Director. Lecture-Study Department speakers went on tours throughout the Midwest to present evening and weekend courses. The Class-Study Department provided off-campus instruction in the city, offering courses similar to those available on campus; in the early years of the twentieth century, Class-Study began giving courses in subject areas requested by specific groups of people. Basic and remedial courses by mail came under the jurisdiction of Correspondence-Study. By 1897 the other three units-Examination, Library, and Training-had been absorbed by the first three; a department devoted to Bible study had been dropped even more quickly. Not until 1905, when the American Institute of Sacred Literature merged with the Extension, was Bible study restored.
In 1900 the Extension faculty lost its separate and statutory existence. The Board of University Extension assumed governing responsibility until 1916, when the Extension's administration and governance reverted to its Director.
Especially during the first quarter-century of its existence, the Extension served teachers and aspiring teachers. In 1898, aided by a grant from Mrs. Emmons Blaine, the University organized the downtown College of Teachers. Two years later it merged with the Class-Study Department under the name University College. University College was conceived as "an arrangement for selecting and conducting courses of study at a place and time convenient for those who cannot attend ordinary courses at the Quadrangles." By 1911 the Lecture-Study Department had also been incorporated into University College, and its circuit riding program was discontinued. The Correspondence-Study Department remained part of the Extension and in April 1924 was renamed the Home-Study Department.
Beginning in the 1920s, but particularly during the 1930s and 1940s, University College developed educational programs in cooperation with specific professional groups, among them the American Chemical Society and the American Institute of Meat Packers. Other specialized courses included those for mechanical and electrical engineers as well as for members of the printing and lithographic industries. During this same period University College expanded its services by tailoring courses to the needs of businessmen, civic leaders, and government administrators. Innovative offerings in the liberal arts, particularly the Great Books series and the Basic Program in Liberal Education for Adults, proved to be extremely popular. Capitalizing on the success Robert Hutchins and Mortimer Adler had with the Great Books courses, the Basic Program was a four-year liberal arts training program designed around group discussions and lectures on classical and modern literature. Other programs, such as the Institute of Statistics and the Institute of Public Service, survived only briefly in wartime conditions.
By the 1960s, University Extension enrollment had declined precipitously from the two previous decades. After 1963-64 the Home-Study Department ceased to exist, and the Downtown Center closed in 1974. By 1982 the University Extension had become part of the Center for Continuing Education. Though Its programs and course offerings have been reduced from earlier years, this entity continues to offer adult educational services, most of them non-credit, in the following areas: liberal education, including the Basic Program; business and professional courses, particularly in publishing, communications, and marketing; and higher education, including faculty symposia and seminars.
Thorstein Veblen was born in 1857 in Cato, Wisconsin. He received an A.B. from Carleton College (1880), and a Ph.D. from Yale University (1884). Veblen was a fellow at Cornell University (1891-1892), and at the University of Chicago (1892-1893).
Veblen remained at the University of Chicago as a reader in political economy (1893-1894). He became associate professor at the University (1894-1896), instructor (1896-1900), and assistant professor (1900-1906). From 1906 to 1909, Veblen was associate professor of economics at Stanford University. Upon leaving Stanford, he worked as a lecturer in economics at the University of Missouri (1911-1918). He co-founded the New School for Social Research in 1919, lecturing there until 1926. Veblen also served as the managing editor for the Journal of Political Economy from 1896 to 1905.
Veblen published many books, of which the best known is The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study in the Evolution of Institutions (1899). The book did not become highly regarded among academics until after Veblen's death. Some of Veblen's other published works include: The Instinct of Workmanship and the State of the Industrial Arts (1914), Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolution (1915), and An Inquiry Into the Nature of Peace and the Terms of Its Perpetuation (1917). Several collections of Veblen's work were published posthumously, including: Essays in Our Changing Order (1934), and What Veblen Taught: Selected Writings of Thorstein Veblen (1936). Veblen is also the subject of many books.
Thorstein Veblen died in 1929.
Verse is an independent literary journal founded in 1984 at Oxford University by Robert Crawford, Henry Hart, and David Kinloch and is currently published by the University of Georgia with assistance from The College of William and Mary and the University of Richmond, VA. Former editors include John Burnside and Lilas Fraser and in 1994, Brian Henry and Andrew Zawacki became the lead editors of Verse.
Verse focuses on international poetry, essays, reviews, and interviews and often presents feature issues on themes or countries. Past features include younger Slovene poets, Australian poetry, Scottish poetry, younger American poets, Mexican poetry, Irish Women poets, Indian poetry, and Russian poetry. The journal has published poems from Ireland, England, Scotland, Russia, Australia, Germany, Spain, Mexico, France, Italy, Cuba, South Africa, Canada, Holland, Sweden, Serbia, Norway, Slovenia, the United States, and other countries. Seamus Heaney said Verse is "One of the most valuable poetry magazines published in the English speaking world."
Robert Crawford was born in Belshill, Lanarkshire, Scotland in 1959 and was educated at Glasgow and Oxford Universities. In 1988, he won the Eric Gregory Award and in 1994 was selected for The New Generation Poet's Promotion. Crawford won the Scottish Arts Council Book Award twice and was recommended for the Poetry Book Society. He is the author of several collections of poetry including A Scottish Assembly (1990), Talkies (1992), Masculinity (1996), Spirit Machines (1999), The Tip of My Tongue (2003), Full Volume (2008). Crawford works as a professor at the University of St. Andrews.
Henry Hart received a B.A. from Darmouth College and a philosophy degree from Oxford University. In 2000 he was the runner up for the Southern Book Critics' Circle Award. Hart's books include: The Ghost Ship (1990), The Rooster Mask (1998), and the Background Radiation (2007). Hart's poetry has appeared in the Gettysburg Review, New Kenyon Review, The Southern Review, The New Yorker Poetry, and Best American Poetry.
David Kinloch was born in Glasglow in 1959 and attended Glasgow and Oxford Universities. He is a recipient of the Robert Louis Stevenson Memorial Award. Kinloch's poetry books include Dustie-Fute (1992), Paris –Forfar (1994), UnTour d'Ecosse (2001), and In My Father's House (2005). After leaving Verse he edited Southfields with Richard Price and also published Informationists pamphlets.
Brian Henry received his B.A. degree from the College of William and Mary and M.F.A. at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. He won the Alice Fay di Castagnola Award in 2003 and the Cecil B. Hemeley Memorial Award in 2008. Henry is the author of American Incident (2002), Astronaut (2002), Graft (2003), On James Tate (2004), The Verse Book on Interviews (2005), Quarantine (2006), The Shipping Point (2007), and In the Unlikely Event of a Water (2007). Henry's poetry appeared in American Poetry Review, Boston Review, The Canary, Conduit, Denver Quarterly, and The Paris Review. Henry teaches at the University of Richmond.
Andrew Zawacki was born in 1972. In 1995 Andrew Zawacki edited Festschrift for Gustaf Soben with Andrew Joron and The Verse Book of Interviews: 27 Poets on Language, Craft, and Culture with Brian Henry. Zawacki's first book, By Reason of Breakings, won the University of Georgia Contemporary Poetry Series in 2001. Zawacki's second book, Ananbranch, won the Cecil Hemley Memorial Award in 2002. In 2005 Zawacki became a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity and currently teaches at the University of Georgia.
Vi Fogle Uretz (1916-2007) was a University of Chicago alumna, wife of faculty member Robert B. Uretz, and an active member of the Hyde Park community. She was involved in many community organizations, including the radio station WFMT, the Hyde Park Historical Society, the 57th Street Art Fair, and the Cleaner Air Committee. As an artist, Uretz exhibited her paintings and sketches across the United States, as well as locally at the 57th Street Art Fair. Within the Hyde Park community, Uretz documented changes to the landscape of the city during urban renewal through her paintings, sketches and photographs.
The Charles R. Walgreen Foundation for the Study of American Institutions was established in June, 1937 when Walgreen, who felt that there was need for a greater appreciation of the American way of life among University of Chicago students, gave the University $550,000 for this purpose. Although the funds have been used to support scholarships, teaching, and research in the various fields of American studies, the Foundation has perhaps been best known for the many series of public lectures which it has sponsored. Over the years, people of outstanding accomplishment in public life and in the academic world of the social sciences and the humanities have been brought to the campus to speak on various aspects of American institutions and values; among the speakers have been Walter Lippmann, Carl Sandburg, Jaques Maritain, Ralph Bunche, George Kennan, Paul Douglas, Hannah Arendt, and Jacques Barzun.
During the Second World War several programs of instruction were instituted at the University of Chicago. The major war activity of the University, in addition to research, was the Army Specialized Training Program (ASTP) inaugurated in the spring of 1943. The students in this program were enlisted and drafted soldiers who had demonstrated on intelligence and aptitude tests that they possessed outstanding qualifications for further training. The University provided instruction in basic-phase subjects and in several advanced courses including medicine, pre-medicine, area and language, and psychology. Those who had had only high school or a limited college experience were assigned to the basic phase of the program, and were given a broad background of training with instruction in English, history, mathematics, physics, chemistry, engineering, and geography. The trainees who had completed some college work or who had special qualifications were assigned to one of a series of advanced courses that provided specialized training. The last group to be trained at the University graduated in October 1944.
The other major program was the Civilian Pilot Training Program. Originally established in 1939 to teach college and university students to fly, it was converted after the outbreak of war to a program of instruction for men in the armed services. Its name was changed to the CAA War Training Service (WTS) and provided instruction for Navy combat pilots, Army glider pilots, and Army flight instructors. These men took a two-month course, including ground school instruction and flight training. When the CPT Program was converted to military purposes, the University began a program to train civilian Aviation Ground School Instructors.
While the ASTP and the WTS were the major wartime training programs, the University did institute other smaller programs. Of note are the Civil Affairs Training School and Production Training for War Industries programs. The Civil Affairs Training School trained soldiers in military government at Provost Marshall General's School in Georgia and then they were sent to select universities for training in foreign languages and culture. At the University of Chicago, the soldiers were trained in Japanese language and culture. The Production Training for War Industries trained men for war industries through tuition free classes at the School of Business.

The World Citizens Association was an outgrowth of S. de Maderiaga's attempts at founding an American division of the World Foundation. Founded in 1939 under the patronage of Mrs. Anita McCormick Blaine, the Chicago group was dissolved in 1943 for lack of sufficient operating funds. In the course of its life under the chairmanship of Carleton Washburne, superintendent of schools in Winnetka, and under the executive directorship of Edwin M. Clough (1939-1940), John R. Van de Water (1940-1943), and Caroline Willis (1943), the Chicago Group prepared eleven surveys/study kits on as many different subjects having some relation to international cooperation. The World Citizens Association actively encouraged the development of groups to use these materials or sponsored them in order to come to some understanding and opinion as to the practicality, possibility, and nature of the post-war "organization" of the world.
Wesley Hammond Greene was born in Romney, West Virginia in 1907, and educated at Randolph-Macon College (A.B. 1927) and University of Virginia (A.M. 1929). He began his career in education as a history and social sciences teacher, working in Virginia high schools, Allegheny College, and the University of Chicago's Laboratory Schools.
Through work with the University of Chicago's International House, Greene became interested in film as an educational medium. In 1937, he incorporated International Film Bureau, an importer and exporter of educational films. Greene subsequently created additional branches of his distributorship, including College Film Center, which specialized in low-cost rentals of classroom films, and Trans-World Films, which distributed foreign films and general entertainment titles. Greene's companies handled a variety of film genres, particularly European and Latin American features, art and experimental films, foreign language instruction series, vocational guidance films, and classic entertainment titles. Greene's clients included schools, colleges and universities, churches, clubs and businesses.
In the 1930s, Greene developed film series in coordination with University of Chicago affiliated organizations such as International House, the Renaissance Society, and the University Film Society. During the early 1940s, Greene and his family moved to Canada, where he served on the National Film Board. In Chicago, he was active on the Chicago Film Council, and organized the group's Films of the World Festival in 1947.
In 1957, Greene led the Committee to Preserve the Ferguson Fund for Sculpture in challenging the Art Institute of Chicago's administration of the Benjamin F. Ferguson Fund. Established in 1905 for the development of the Chicago's sculpture and monument collections, the fund had been used by the Art Institute of Chicago for building construction, maintenance and other administrative and operational costs. The committee's efforts culminated in Wesley Greene vs. the Art Institute of Chicago and the Northern Trust Company.
Greene married the artist Marie Zoe Greene-Mercier in 1937; the couple lived in Hyde Park and raised three sons.
William Rainey Harper (1856 -1906) was the first president of the University of Chicago, from 1891 to 1906. Born on July 24,1856, Harper was the son of Samuel Harper and Ellen Elizabeth Rainey. An excellent student, Harper learned Hebrew at an early age and received his B.A. from Muskingum College at fourteen. After working for a few years in his family's store, in 1873 he went on to graduate work at Yale. There he studied philology, concentrating particularly on Hebrew. His dissertation was entitled, ";A Comparative Study Prepositions in Latin, Greek, Sanskrit and Gothic. Harper earned his Ph.D. in two years, graduating just before his nineteenth birthday.
In 1875, Harper married Ella Paul and they moved to Macon, Tennessee where Harper had found a position as the head of Masonic College. This was the first of several positions, including Denison University, Baptist Union Theological Seminary and Chautauque Institution, he held before returning to Yale in 1886 to teach Hebrew in the Semitic Languages department and the Divinity School.
Harper remained at Yale for only a few years. He had already been a member of the faculty at the Baptist Union Theological Seminary in Morgan Park, Illinois, where he had taught Hebrew. Before leaving, he had been offered the presidency of the failing old University of Chicago, so when the American Baptist Educational Society formed and decided to organize a midwestern Baptist university, Harper was invited to join the organizational committee. With the financial support of John D. Rockefeller, a board of trustees was formed and they soon nominated Harper for the presidency. On February 16, 1891, after lengthy negotiations, he accepted the presidency of the new University of Chicago.
Even before his official acceptance of the presidency, Harper was planning. Although originally envisioned as a Baptist, undergraduate college for the midwest, Harper had bigger ideas. Instead of merely an undergraduate institution Harper wanted to promote his ideal of higher education with a combination of undergraduate teaching and strong support for research. Also part of this plan was a continuation of the kind of correspondence education he had developed at the Baptist Union Theological Seminary and Yale. With this in mind, he began an intensive period of recruitment and building. Harper worked tirelessly to recruit first class faculty and raise money for his institution. He brought in faculty from a range of fields and institutions, using his persuasive skills and tenacity, as well as promises of time for research, to convince them to join the new university.
Eventually, the university came to include graduate degree programs, adult education programs, athletics, a university press and extension services. These were in addition to the undergraduate college. It was formed according to the plan of two years of general study of the classics followed by two years of greater specialization. Harper himself taught in the Department of Semitic Languages and Literatures. Despite the burden of administrative activities, Harper was the chair of his department as well as president, he felt it was important to teach. Even with this interest in teaching, a key part of Harper's vision of higher education was research and scholarship. Harper wanted his senior faculty to have ample time and freedom to pursue their research interests as well as teach. This emphasis on research was somewhat novel at the time, but Harper was able to exploit the absence of traditional constraints in forming a new university in order to give research and scholarship a central role.
When he was not occupied with his educational plan, Harper was raising money and soliciting donations, especially from John D. Rockefeller. In addition to the recruitment of faculty and the organization of programs of study, there were buildings to be built and academic ceremonies to be held. During all this activity Harper continued to write, producing biblical commentaries and other works, and maintaining a passionate interest in sports. He never stopped planning for the future and continued to expand the university and include new programs and schools over the following years. This caused problems in budgeting, however, and Harper ran up large deficits in his fifteen years in the presidency. These financial problems would not be addressed until Harry Pratt Judson was appointed president after Harper.
In 1905, Harper became ill. Although he continued to work and teach throughout the period of his illness, Harper died on January 10, 1906. He left behind the foundations of the University of Chicago, which would continue to grow and change after his death, but never lose his emphasis on a combination of undergraduate education and scholarly research.
Harper and his wife, Ella, had three sons, Samuel Northrup, Paul and Donald, and one daughter, Davida.
Yerkes Observatory, located in Williams Bay, Wisconsin, is a facility of the University of Chicago's Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics. The observatory opened in 1897 as the joint creation of three founders: William Rainey Harper, the first president of the University of Chicago; Professor George E. Hale, the observatory’s first director; and Charles T. Yerkes, a wealthy Chicago businessman who provided funds for the erection of the observatory building. On the shores of Lake Geneva, this observatory was designed by Henry Ives Cobb, with landscape architecture by John Olmsted.
Yerkes became known in the astronomical community as the home of the last of the great refracting telescopes, a 40-inch instrument first exhibited at the World’s Columbian Exposition in 1893. The observatory housed the university's Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics until the 1960s, and was the site of some of the most significant research in modern astronomy and astrophysics.
In 1932, the University of Chicago struck an agreement with the University of Texas to construct an observatory endowed by the Texas banker William Johnson McDonald (1844–1926). Texas at that time had neither the funds nor the faculty for its operation. Under the agreement, the observatory was to be constructed and operated under the direction of Otto Struve, with the understanding that eventually University of Texas would assume complete responsibility for McDonald Observatory. As such, Dr. Struve became the first director of McDonald Observatory. The agreement between University of Chicago and the University of Texas was modified in 1959 as Texas’ program in astronomy broadened, and in 1962-1963 the entire operation of McDonald Observatory was placed under the Department of Astronomy at The University of Texas.
International House at the University of Chicago was constructed in 1932 at 1414 East 59th Street through the support of John D. Rockefeller, Jr. His hope was “to promote international understanding and friendship of the people of Chicago and the Middle West towards nations and cultures other than their own.” The co-educational residence was designed by Holabird and Roche, and built out of Indiana limestone in the gothic style. It could house over 500 students and was administered by a Board of Governors consisting of members of the faculty and representatives of the Chicago business community.
The idea for International House began in 1910 at Columbia University through the work of Harry E. Edmonds. International Houses were built in New York (1924); Berkeley, California (1930); Boston, and Paris. The goals of International House were (1) to provide educational facilities for students of different nationalities and races, (2) to promote understanding and friendship among students of diverse national, cultural, and social backgrounds, and (3) to serve as a cultural facility for the foreign students at the University of Chicago and other educational institutions in the Chicago area.
Members of the International House organized dances, film festivals, lecture series, debates, and forums. The International House Council at the University of Chicago was one of the governing bodies of International House, along with the Board of Governors and the Senate.
The majority of the papers in this collection concern events of the early 1970s. In the spring of 1971 I-House announced the firing of part of its maid staff in an effort to economize. This led to active student protests, including picketing, and a call for more student participation in I-House budget-making. This led to the formation of the I-House Senate, which was composed of the I-House Governors and the I-House Council. Moreover, this event led to student membership on I-House Governors Committees, student attendance at I-House Governors meetings, increased budgets for activities such as film festivals, and a preservation of I-House cafeteria service. In the winter of 1972 students passed a referendum for co-ed housing, which was resisted by some students and led to changes in the amount of power given to I-House Council.
The Innominates club was an organization created by and for faculty in the physical, biological, and social sciences at the University of Chicago. According to the earliest records maintained by the club, the Innominates modeled themselves after faculty "shop clubs" at Harvard University. An organizational meeting of interested science faculty convened on February 5, 1917, at the Hotel del Prado in Hyde Park. At that meeting, founding members agreed that monthly meetings would consist of an evening meal and presentation of research in progress by an individual or group of collaborating members. Speakers and topics of discussion were to be pre-arranged in order to facilitate advance announcement. Initially, membership was to be limited to approximately twenty members, with new members admitted through a nomination and election process. The name Innominates--the unnamed or anonymous ones--was officially adopted for reasons left unelaborated in the record. The organizing members of the club were: Elbert Clark, Charles H. Swift (Anatomy); William E. Cary (Bacteriology); J. W. E. Glattfield, H. I. Schlesinger (Chemistry); L. I. Knight (Botany); J. H. Bretz, E. A. Stephenson (Geology); A. C. Lunn, A. R. Schweitzer (Mathematics); A. J. Dempster, Harvey B. Lemon (Physics); F. C. Koch, Arnold B. Luckhardt (Physiology); J. G. Sinclair (Zoology); and H. D. Kitson (Psychology). Harvey B. Lemon volunteered to serve as the group's first secretary.
The Innominates soon settled into a pattern of dinner and discussion at the Quadrangle Club, with occasional field trips and picnics. Over the years, attendance at meetings and the degree of formality and the scientific rigor of presentations fluctuated. The club carefully monitored its membership roster and preserved the original plan of admission by means of nomination and election. Submission of resignation was required for those wishing to leave the club, so that vacancies could be filled with active, bright, and interesting younger scholars. Gradually, the number of members, both active and inactive, grew to over forty. By the early 1940s, the secretary's minutes show that non-University of Chicago scholars were also inducted. Although members and topics of discussion predominantly represented the physical and biological sciences, membership and speaker lists attest to the participation of others, including anthropologists Fay-Cooper Cole and Fred Eggan.
The X-Club originated as a faculty club similar to, but distinct from, the Innominates. At an organizational meeting held January 10, 1928, X-Club founders established that the objective of the club would be "to broaden the scientific knowledge and interests of its members, and to promote acquaintance and friendship among its members, by meeting monthly for the presentation of some scientific subject by some member, and the informal discussion of the topic by the group." The initial concept of the club was that it should provide a forum of exchange for a maximum of twenty-five junior faculty members in the physical and biological sciences. Charter members were Walter Bartky (Astronomy), J. A. Bearden (Physics), W. W. Watson (Physics), Paul Cannon (Pathology), G. M. Dack (Bacteriology), and R. W. Gerard (Physiology). Like the Innominates, the X-Club selected members via nominations and ballot and quickly established a routine of dinner at the Quadrangle Club followed by lecture. Although the X-Club began strictly as a community of physical and biological scientists, it soon embraced social scientists, and in the 1960s and 70s it began to admit scholars from the humanities in order to foster interdisciplinary discussion.
The Innominates and the X-Club co-existed at the University of Chicago for many years, often sharing the same members and even holding occasional joint meetings. Neither club ever required its members to pay dues. When membership in both clubs began to dwindle, Donald Rowley (Pathology and Committee on Immunology) and Donald Fiske (Psychology) initiated the idea of a merger. In 1980, the members of both clubs voted to integrate the two organizations and member lists, thereby forming the Innominates/X-Club. The records of both predecessor clubs and of the combined Innominates/X-Club were presented to the University of Chicago Archives in 1982 after continuing decline in participation seemed to presage the club's demise. The consolidated club continued, however, despite diminished interest, until 1996 when it became inactive. Although presently dormant, the club has never been formally dissolved.
The Institute for Nuclear Studies Cyclotron Records were collected by Professor Samuel K. Allison. Allison received his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1923, did research at Harvard and the Carnegie Institute before going to the Department of Physics at the University of California. The collection focuses on the 170-inch synchrocyclotron, put into operation at the University of Chicago in March, 1947. The project was supported in part by the Office of Naval Research and the Atomic Energy Commission.
In 1959, the National Planning Commission and the Institute of Public Administration in cooperation with the Congress for Cultural Freedom organized a Seminar on Comparative Administrative Problems Related to Social and Economic Development. The seminar was held from April 21 to 29 in Cairo and featured papers delivered by experts in Public Administration from Arab, European, and Asian countries.
John Gunther, the internationally known journalist and writer, was born in 1901 in Chicago. He was educated in the public schools there and graduated from the University of Chicago in 1922, where he had been literary editor of the Daily Maroon, the campus newspaper. Soon after graduation he began work as a foreign correspondent for the Chicago Daily News and remained in Europe until 1936. He was at various times in charge of Daily News offices in London, Berlin, Vienna, Moscow, Rome, and Paris, and has worked or visited in every European country except Portugal. In 1936, he published the results of his early years of European experience in the first of his "inside" books, INSIDE EUROPE, which sold more than 500,000 copies.
For more than twenty years Gunther continued the writing of these phenomenally successful "inside" books which include INSIDE ASIA (1939), INSIDE LATIN AMERICA (1941), INSIDE U.S.A. (1947), INSIDE AFRICA (1955), INSIDE RUSSIA TODAY (1958), and most recently INSIDE EUROPE TODAY (1961). In addition, Gunther wrote a number of other books on current affairs as well as biographical studies of major figures in American life. These include D-DAY (1944), concerning the Allied invasion of Italy and the Mediterranean war in general; BEHIND THE CURTAIN (1949), investigating conditions in Europe at the time, especially the countries behind the Iron Curtain; ROOSEVELT IN RETROSPECT (1950); THE RIDDLE OF MACARTHUR (1951); EISENHOWER: THE MAN AND THE SYMBOL (1952); TAKEN AT THE FLOOD: THE STORY OF ALBERT D. LASKER (1960). In 1949, Gunther published the deeply moving account of the death of his young son, John, two years earlier, of a brain tumor, entitled DEATH BE NOT PROUD. In addition, he is the author of a series of juvenile books, which are revised versions for younger readers of chapters from INSIDE AFRICA and INSIDE RUSSIA TODAY. He has also written three other children's books on historical and mythical characters: ALEXANDER THE GREAT (1952), JULIUS CAESAR (1959), and THE GOLDEN FLEECE (1959). In 1955, Gunther prepared the text and captions for DAYS TO REMEMBER, a pictorial volume on America, 1945-1955, written in collaboration with Bernard Quint, associate art editor of Life.
Dr. Joseph H. Rush served as the first Secretary-Treasurer of the Federation of American Scientists from 1946 to 1947. The Federation of American Scientists, a federation of seven associations of scientists and engineers, was organized in 1946 for the purpose of promoting world peace, international control of atomic energy, and the proper use of science for general welfare. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., FAS sought to influence government policy and educate the public concerning the social implications of new knowledge in science.
The Jazz Institute of Chicago (JIC) was founded in 1969 by members of the jazz community to help preserve the history of jazz in Chicago. Founding members include Art Hodes, Muhal Richard Abrams, Harriett Choice, Joe Segal, Bob Koester, Don DeMicheal, Penny Tyler, and John Steiner. As part of the effort to preserve the history of Chicago jazz, the Jazz Institute of Chicago helped found the Chicago Jazz Archive, located at the University of Chicago.
The Jazz Institute of Chicago created numerous ongoing events and festivals, including the Annual Jazz Fair, Chicago Jazz Festival, and Jazz Club Tour, as well as many individual concerts and performances. In 1997, the Jazz Institute of Chicago partnered with the Chicago Park District to promote the JazzCity concert series and also partnered with the American Composers Forum in 1999 to create the Chicago Composers Project.
Though the original focus of the Jazz Institute of Chicago was to preserve the history of jazz in Chicago, over time the scope has broadened to not only preserve that history but to also bring jazz and other types of music to new audiences. One program is Jazz Links, a forum for young musicians to play. The Jazz Institute of Chicago also works with the Chicago public schools and other organizations for educational programming.
Jenkin Lloyd Jones, born in Wales in 1843, was brought to the United States by his parents in 1844 and was raised on a pioneer farm in Wisconsin. Several of his ancestors, including Jenkin Jones and David Lloyd, had been pioneer ministers in the Arminian movement in Wales. Jones enlisted in the Union army during the Civil War as a matter of conscience, fighting in the battles of Vicksburg, Chattanooga, and Missionary Ridge. He was mustered out in 1865 as a confirmed opponent to war, a position he maintained throughout his life. Upon graduation in 1870 from Meadville Theological Seminary in Pennsylvania, he was ordained a Unitarian minister, serving at Winnetka, Illinois, 1870-71, and Janesville, Wisconsin, 1871-80. In 1882, Jones began missionary work on the south side of Chicago, which resulted in the organization of All Souls Church, of which he remained pastor until his death. Jones early in his career was active in forming "Mutual Improvement Clubs", a new idea in church life in the 1870's, a movement that spread and eventually became the "Unity Clubs" found in almost all Unitarian churches of the Middle West.
In 1874, Jones became secretary of the Western Unitarian Conference, a position he held until 1884. He infused new life into the dying organization, moved its headquarters to Chicago in 1880, and devoted all of his time to the Conference, giving up his church in Janesville. He helped found the weekly magazine Unity in 1878, dedicated to "Freedom, Fellowship and Character in Religion," and remained its editor until his death. He set up a Sunday School society which published numerous lessons and vigorous tract-publications. But Jones also led a movement within the Western Conference for ethical rather than theological unanimity as the basis for liberal fellowship. This issue erupted at the Cincinnati meeting of the Conference in 1886, where many of the conservative churches withdrew and the eastern branch of the movement set up a rival organization. Until the breach was healed in 1894, Jones used his editorship of Unity to advance the liberal cause and the magazine became the mouthpiece of the liberal party within the movement.
Soon after the foundation of All Souls Church Jones dropped the word "Unitarian". He felt that denomination built a fence around religion and he did not want his church, even by remote implication, to exclude anyone. This church became the nucleus of Jones' even more ambitious project, the Abraham Lincoln Centre, founded in 1905. Lincoln Centre was a combination social, civic and religious center in its early years, with All Souls Church at its core, but it also provided a gymnasium, manual training, domestic science classes, reading rooms, libraries, lecture courses, as well as study classes in subjects including religion, citizenship, literature. Jones' idea of universal religion inspired the World's Parliament of Religion, in connection with the Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893. He was the moving force behind the movement as well as its General Secretary. He also sailed on the Ford Peace Ship Mission in December 1915 and became the chairman of the Committee of Administration after the withdrawal of Henry Ford due to illness. He maintained his pacifist viewpoint until his death and in 1918 his editorial opposition in Unity to war in general and American participation in World War I led to the suspension of mailing privileges of the magazine by the United States Postmaster-General. Jones also founded the Tower Hill (Wisconsin) Summer Camp in 1889, which gave systematic lectures on literary and liberal religious subjects.
He was the author of numerous works, among them: An Artilleryman's Diary (1914); The Faith That Makes Faithful, with W. C. Gannett (1886); Jess: Bits of Wayside Gospel (1899); A Search for an Infidel (1901); and Love for the Battletorn Peoples (1916). He received an honorary LL.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1909.
Susan Barber, Jones' first wife died in 1911. In 1915, he married Edith Lackersteen, his longtime associate at Lincoln Centre. Jones died at Tower Hill, Wisconsin, in 1918. Edith Lloyd Jones died in 1932.
Founded in 1921, the Journal of Religion was part of a long lineage of religious history and studies journals. One of the journals that the Journal of Religion grew out of was The Biblical World, which in turn was a continuation of a journal founded by William Rainey Harper in 1882. First known as The Hebrew Student, it was re-titled The Old Testament Student and The Old and New Testament Student before becoming The Biblical World in 1893. Harper edited the journal until his death in 1906. The position of editor passed first to Ernest DeWitt Burton, then to Shailer Mathews in 1913. The journal solicited articles on Biblical scholarship, examining historical subjects as well as current religious issues. It was aimed at a popular rather than a strictly academic audience.
Founded in 1897, the American Journal of Theology featured articles of a more technical and scholarly nature than The Biblical World. The title page stated that the "Faculty of the Divinity School" edited the journal, although by 1915 it was acknowledged that most of the faculty members were not directly involved in its production. The journal was reorganized in that year and two managing editors were named, Gerald B. Smith and Shirley Jackson Case, who served through 1920.
The Biblical World and the American Journal of Theology were each published by the Divinity School and managed by a single board of editors. Due to financial difficulties with both publications, it was decided to merge them under a new title, the Journal of Religion, which appeared beginning in 1921 with Gerald Smith as editor. Although intended to combine the features of its two predecessors, the new journal increasingly emphasized the scholarly side of theological studies.
Smith served as editor until 1926, when he was replaced by Shirley J. Case. Upon Case's retirement from the University in 1939, the editorship was given to John Knox (1939
John Todd Wilson was born on March 17, 1914, in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania. He was one of nine children of Reverend Clark Wilson and Alice Warren. John Wilson received his A.B. degree with distinction from George Washington University in 1941, an M.A. in 1942 from the State University of Iowa, and a Ph.D. in psychology from Stanford University in 1948. He married Ann Camilli Wilson, his second wife, in 1939.
During World War II, Wilson served in the United States Naval Reserve. He was commissioned as an Ensign in 1942 and left the service as a Lieutenant Commander USNR in 1946.
In 1948, Wilson became Assistant Executive Secretary of the American Psychological Association while teaching concurrently as an Assistant Professor of Psychology at George Washington University. He returned to government service in 1950 as the head of the Personnel and Training Research Branch of the Office of Naval Research. He left the Office of Naval Research in 1952 for the newly created National Science Foundation, where he served as Program Director for Psychology in the Biological and Medical Sciences Division. In 1955, he became Assistant Director of NSF for Biological and Medical Sciences.
Wilson first came to the University of Chicago in 1961 as a special assistant to President George W. Beadle. He was also appointed as Professor of Psychology and taught graduate level courses. From 1963 to 1968 Wilson served as Deputy Director of the NSF and received the Foundation's first Distinguished Service Award.
Wilson returned to the University of Chicago in 1968 as Vice-President and Dean of Faculties. He became Provost in 1969 under President Edward H. Levi. While Provost, Wilson responded to the economic pressures of inflation and cutbacks in government aid to education by implementing a five-year austerity plan. He held the position of Provost until February 1975 when Levi resigned to become U.S. Attorney General. Wilson then became Acting President and expected to hold that position until a replacement was found. Although initially reluctant to accept the post, he was elected President by the Board of Trustees on December 9, 1975. He was noted for his fundraising efforts at a time of financial difficulty for all universities and as a supporter of student activities. He served as the ninth president of the University of Chicago until July 1, 1978, when he was succeeded by Hanna H. Grey.
Wilson was a noted expert on relations between universities and government. He was the author of Academic Science, Higher Education, and the Federal Government 1950-1983 (University of Chicago Press, 1983), Higher Education and the Washington Scene: 1963 and Higher Education and the Washington Scene: 1983 (University of Chicago Press, 1963 and 1982). Wilson was also the author of numerous articles on psychology and human learning, personnel selection and training, and research programming and administration. He was the co-author of Current Trends in Psychology and Behavioral Sciences (University of Pittsburgh Press, 1954).
Wilson continued teaching at the university until 1984. He died on August 4, 1990, at the age of 76.
Norman Maurice Kaplan was born in 1917 and entered the College of the University of Chicago in the fall of 1935. He received an A.B. degree in economics in 1939, an A.M. in 1948, and the Ph.D. in 1970. He is the author of Capital Investments in the Soviet Union, 1924-1951 (Santa Monica: Rand Corporation, 1952) and Studies in Soviet Capital Formation (Ph.D. thesis, University of Chicago, 1970).
Charles Anton Bill (Karl Anton Bill) was born to Anton Henry Bill and Lena Petersick in Chicago on September 6, 1905. He died in Chicago in 1981.
Yousuf Karsh was born in 1908 in Turkish Armenia, what was then part of the Ottoman Empire. In 1924, he immigrated to Canada, where he began to practice photography in his uncle's studio (1926-1928). In 1928, Karsh moved to Boston and formally learned a number of photographic techniques under the guidance of John H. Garo. In 1931, Yousuf Karsh opened his first independent studio in Ottawa, Canada. Saturday Night, an illustrated periodical, first published his photographs in the 1930s. As his local reputation grew, he was asked to photograph Winston Churchill during the prime minister's visit to Ottawa in 1941. This photographic session and the print included in this collection led Yousuf Karsh to international fame. He continued to photograph significant world leaders and cultural figures. Throughout his career, Karsh was celebrated for his dramatic use of lighting to portray the likeness of his subjects. He won many awards, including the Master of Photography Award from the International Center for Photography, and the Medal of Service and the Centennial Medal of the Order of Canada. Karsh died in 2002 in Boston.
Hugo Kauder (18881972) was an Austrian and American composer and musical pedagogue. A self-taught musician, Kauder's chamber music compositions are contrapuntal and characterized by conservative harmonies and closed scales. Kauder published two works on music theory, Entwurf einer neuen Melodie- und Harmonielehre (Vienna, 1932), and Counterpoint: An Introduction to Polyphonic Composition (New York, 1960). Forced in 1938 to leave Vienna where he was a member of the Konzertverein Orchestra, he settled in New York in 1940 and spent the rest of his career composing and teaching there.
Nathaniel Kleitman was born in Kishinev, Russia on April 26, 1895 to Jewish parents, Nathaniel and Pesia Kleitman. Nathaniel Kleitman, Sr. died of tuberculosis a few months prior to his son's birth. Pesia Kleitman remarried in 1900, and Nathaniel spent much of his childhood living with his maternal grandparents. He attended a private high school (a Realschule) until 1912. Kleitman studied briefly at Syrian Protestant College in Lebanon, now the American University of Beirut, in 1914. Following the outbreak of World War I, Kleitman and other foreign students were evacuated to Turkey. From there, Kleitman travelled to Greece, and then to New York in August of 1915. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1918. The following year, he earned his B.S. degree from what is now City College of New York. In 1920 he received his M.A. from Columbia University, followed by two years as an instructor in physiology and pharmacology at the University of Georgia. In 1923 he became a research associate in physiology at the University of Chicago and earned his Ph.D. that same year. Upon graduation, Kleitman was the recipient of a National Research Council fellowship which allowed him to continue his research at the University of Utrecht, the University of Paris, and the University of Chicago until 1925.
He joined the faculty of the University of Chicago in 1925 as an assistant professor of physiology, and was named associate professor in 1929. He married Paulena Schweizer in 1927; they had two daughters, Hortense and Esther. Kleitman established the world's first sleep laboratory early in his career at the University of Chicago, and in 1939 published a seminal text on sleep research: Sleep and Wakefulness as Alternating Phases in the Cycle of Existence (revised and enlarged in 1963). Kleitman became a full professor at the University of Chicago in 1950.
Dr. Kleitman regularly used himself, family members, students, and assistants as research subjects. For several years, his daughters slept on beds designed to record sleep patterns. In 1938, Kleitman and post-graduate student Bruce Richardson lived for more than a month in Mammoth Cave in Kentucky to determine if humans could adapt to a twenty-eight-hour day in the absence of normal environmental cues of light and temperature change. They discovered that body temperatures fluctuate throughout the day, and that a person's peak efficiency coincides with peak body temperature. Kleitman continued this line of inquiry in 1948 when he spent two weeks aboard a submarine, the U.S.S. Dogfish, studying the relationship between mental alertness and temperature change. From May to July of 1951, Kleitman and his family lived in Tromso, in northern Norway, where he studied how long periods of exposure to daylight affected the sleep patterns of inhabitants of the Arctic Circle.
These studies influenced the conception and scheduling of shift work for soldiers and industrial workers. Kleitman's research also greatly impacted scientists' understanding of circadian and ultradian rhythms. He proposed a regular, 90-minute cycle of rest and activity - in sleep and wakefulness - which he called the basic rest-activity cycle (BRAC).
In 1953, Dr. Kleitman and student Dr. Eugene Aserinsky famously reported their discovery of rapid eye movement (R.E.M.) during sleep in their paper "Regularly Occurring Periods of Eye Motility, and Concomitant Phenomena, During Sleep," published in the journal Science. They demonstrated the correlation between R.E.M. sleep and dreaming. A 1956 study of R.E.M. sleep with student William C. Dement dispelled the notion that dreams last for only a few seconds (the average person dreams for two hours a night).
Dr. Kleitman remained active in his profession long after his retirement from the University of Chicago in 1960. He published his last article at the age of eighty-seven, and was a participant in D. L. Bliwise's study, "Sleep in a Nonagenarian: N. Kleitman" (Archives Italiennes de Biologie, 2001) from age eighty-six to ninety-four. In 1995, at the age of one-hundred, Kleitman was a special guest at the American Professional Sleep Societies meeting in Nashville, Tennessee. There, he was accorded great respect for his impact on the field, and he interacted with other significant sleep researchers including Michel Jouvet, and former students William C. Dement and Eugene Aserinsky.
Kleitman died on August 13, 1999 in Los Angeles, California.
William Henry Kruskal was born on October 10, 1919 in New York City to Joseph Bernard and Lillian Rose (Vorhaus) Kruskal. He received an S.B. (1940) and an M.S. (1941) from Harvard University and a Ph.D from Columbia University (1955).
From 1941 to 1944 Kruskal served as a mathematician for the U.S. Naval Proving Ground. This was followed by a term as vice president of Kruskal and Kruskal, Incorporated in New York from 1946 to 1948. In 1950 Kruskal joined the faculty of the University of Chicago. He became a professor of statistics there in 1962, and was honored as the Ernest DeWitt Burton Distinguished Service Professor in 1973. In addition to these duties, Kruskal was the chair of the department of statistics from 1966 to 1973 as well as the Dean of the Division of Social Sciences for a total of nine years. Kruskal also spent some time teaching at other universities including the University of California, Berkeley (1955-1956) and Harvard University (summer 1959).
Active in public and professional associations, Kruskal was president of both the American Statistical Association and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, and was editor of the Annals of Mathematical Statistics and the International encyclopedia of Statistics. He was a National Science Foundation Senior Postdoctoral Fellow (1970-1971), a John Simon Guggenheim Fellow, and founding chairman of the Committee on National Statistics.
In 1988-1989, Kruskal was dean pro tempore of the Harris School of Public Policy at the University of Chicago. His research interests within statistics include graphical methods, history of statistics, linear hypothesis theory, measures of association, representative sampling, and the relative importance of independent variables. His research interests related to public policy include census errors, evaluation of research, measurement, and statistics in public controversy.
Kruskal married Norma Jane Evans on August 23, 1942. The couple had three children—Vincent Joseph, Thomas Evan, and Jonas David.
Karen Landahl was born on December 20, 1951, to John and Betty Landahl of Tinley Park, Illinois. Her family moved to Flossmoor in 1960, where she attended Homewood-Flossmoor High School. Upon graduation she studied at St. Olaf College, spending her junior year in Oxford. She earned her B.A. in Linguistics in 1974. In 1976 she received an M.A. and in 1982 a Ph.D. from Brown University, both in Linguistics. Her dissertation was entitled "The Onset of Structured Discourse: A Developmental Study of the Acquisition of Language." She examined how five children learned to speak through interactions with parents and caretakers and presented a major challenge to the dominant theories of Noam Chomsky and Steven Pinker. According to her dissertation advisor, Philip Lieberman, Professor of Linguistics at Brown University, she was one of the first people to show that children have different styles of acquiring language.
While working on her dissertation she pursued a second major area of interest as a consultant and a collaborative researcher in Chicago at the Center for Craniofacial Anomalies at the University of Illinois Medical Center. Her work here focused on the effects of Crouzon and Apert syndromes on speech production.
Following a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship in Speech Communications at MIT in 1981-2, she returned to Illinois and took a position as an assistant professor at the University of Chicago.
At the University of Chicago she worked on the connections between phonetics, computers, and language learning. In the 1990s, with her student Yukari Hirata, she researched the use of the Visipitch software program in language learning. With this program, students could watch how pitch rises and falls when a native speaks a language, and then learn to imitate it. Landahl had a wide variety of other linguistic interests, including the study of linguistic "others" such as feral children, sign-language using chimps and humans without tongues or with cleft palates, and the origins of human language.
She was diagnosed with cancer in 2000 and her illness rendered her unable to speak. As a result, she moved from classroom teaching to spearhead a program in educational technology as Associate Dean for Computing and Language Technologies. Here she used her knowledge of speech perception and production to become a leader in the use of computers in language teaching.
She died on February 2, 2003.
James Laurence Laughlin was born on April 2, 1850 in Deerfield, Ohio. In the fall of 1869 he entered Harvard College and was graduated summa cum laude in history in 1873. He continued the study of history under Henry Adams at Harvard. He also taught at Hopkinson's Classical School in Boston. In 1876 he received his Ph. D. degree for his thesis on "The Anglo-Saxon Legal Procedure."
In the fall of 1878 Laughlin was appointed instructor of political economy at Harvard. After receiving graduate training in economics, he was appointed an assistant professor at Harvard (1883-1888); during this period, Laughlin organized and sponsored the Political Economy Club. He also completed his History of Bimetallism in the United States in 1885. In 1888 Laughlin left Harvard and became president of the Manufacturer's Mutual Life Insurance Company of Philadelphia. He accepted a professorship in Political Economy at Cornell University in 1890.
Two years later President Harper appointed Laughlin Head Professor of Political Economy at the new University of Chicago. At Chicago, Laughlin introduced the seminar as a method of instruction and founded the Journal of Political Economy. In 1894, Laughlin proposed that the University establish a School of Commerce and Industry. The new professional school, which began undergraduate instruction in 1898, evolved into the Graduate School of Business.
In 1916 Laughlin became Professor Emeritus. He moved to East Jaffery, New Hampshire, where he completed his Credit of Nations, published in 1918. He also wrote numerous magazine articles, largely on labor questions, including "Monopoly of Labor." He died on November 28, 1933.
Gerhardt Laves was born in Chicago on July 15, 1906. His father, Kurt Laves (1866-1944), a professor of mathematics and astronomy, was one of the University of Chicago’s founding faculty members. His mother, Luise, née Moshagen (1872-1957), worked as a homemaker. Both Kurt and Luise Laves were born in Germany. Gerhardt Laves attended Ray Elementary School and the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools. He completed a bachelor’s degree in history and anthropology in 1927 and a master’s degree in anthropology in 1929, both at the University of Chicago. Laves pursued further graduate education at the University of Chicago, where he worked with linguist Edward Sapir. From 1929-1931, he conducted linguistic research in northern and western Australian Aboriginal communities. In total, Laves studied six languages: Gumbaynggir (also Kumbainggar or Gumbangeri); Karajarri; Bardi; Koreng (or Goreng); Matngele (or Madngele); and Ngan'gimerri (also Nangiomeri or Nanggumiri). Following his fieldwork, Laves married Maxine Laves, née Lichtenstein (1910-1999), in 1932. They had four children: Jean Hellie (Laves), Barbara Beasley (Laves), Elizabeth Marcuson (Laves), and Edward “Ted” Laves. In 1933, Laves moved to New Haven to continue his doctoral studies in linguistics at Yale University, but never completed a PhD. The family spent 1935 to 1939 in Navajo Nation, also known as Diné Bikéyah or Navajoland, in New Mexico, where Laves taught in at least three Indian boarding schools, prepared reports materials on Diné bizaad, the Navajo language, and researched soil conservation practices. Established and funded by the federal government, Indian boarding schools were designed to eradicate linguistic and cultural bonds within Indigenous communities by separating children from their families and forcefully assimilating them into settler colonial culture. Conditions at such schools were emotionally, physically, and sexually abusive and often involved forced child labor, rampant disease and malnourishment, and overcrowding. The schools where Laves taught include Wingate Vocational High School, Torreon School, and Shiprock Indian Boarding School. When the family returned to Chicago in 1939, Laves worked for the International Harvester Company preparing instructional brochures and visual aids until 1961. From about 1961 to 1971, Laves worked for the Chicago Police Department writing copy and designing visual aids for CPD exhibits and brochures in the Public Information Division.Gerhardt Laves died in Chicago on March 14, 1993 at the age of 86. Ernst Levy was a prolific composer and arranger of music, author and piano virtuoso. He served on the faculty at the University of Chicago from 1951 to 1954. .
Levy was born in Basel, Switzerland November the 18th, 1895. He studied with Raoul Pugno, Egon Petri and Basel Conservatory mentor and colleague Hans Huber. In Basel Levy taught extensively, becoming Huber's successor of the virtuoso class at the Conservatory in 1917.
Moving to Paris in 1925, Levy continued to teach and perform, and in 1928 founded the first major chorus in Paris, the Choeur Philharmonique, who premiered performances and recordings of notable works by Brahms and Liszt.
For political reasons, Levy moved to Boston in 1941, teaching at the New England Conservatory of Music until 1945. The next twenty five years were spent teaching piano and composition, conducting choral and orchestral works, all the while composing an impressive amount of work, many included in this collection. In addition to his time in Boston and Chicago; he spent time at Bennington College in Vermont (1946-51), at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1954-59) and the Brooklyn College of the City University of New York (1959-66). Levy then retired from teaching, returning to Switzerland in 1966.
Levy became well known and is remarkable in his innovative approach and interpretations of musical works, in addition to his integration of art, science and philosophy into the performance and composition of musical works.
Levy died on April 19th, 1981 in Morges, Switzerland at the age of eighty-five.
Born in Fredericksburg, Virginia, in 1747, John Lewis was the only son born to Colonel Fielding Lewis by his first wife, Catherine Washington, the daughter of Major John Washington of Gloucester County, Virginia. After the death of Catherine Washington Lewis in 1750, Fielding Lewis married Betty Washington, the younger sister of George Washington. This union provided young John Lewis with eleven half-brothers and -sisters. As befitted the eldest son of a well-to-do eighteenth- century American, John Lewis went abroad for much of his education. He returned to Virginia in about 1769, having studied for a time at Oxford.
In that year John Lewis, who was to be widowed four times, took as his first wife – his cousin Lucy Thornton of Caroline County, Virginia. Lucy died shortly after the birth of a daughter, Mildred, and in 1771 Lewis was married for the second time, to Elizabeth Thornton of Northumberland County, Virginia. This marriage lasted only a few months before Lewis was widowed again. His third marriage, to Elizabeth Bates Jones, the daughter of Gabriel Jones, produced three sons (the younger two are represented in this sub-collection): Fielding (1773-1798), Gabriel (1775-1864), and Warner Washington (1779-1833). Widowed a third time in 1783, Lewis was married again in 1786, this time to Mary Ann Fontaine Armistead, the daughter of Peter Fontaine and widow of Bowles Armistead. Already the mother of four children, Mary Ann Lewis bore three more by John Lewis: Frances, Howell, and Mary Ann. The death of his fourth wife in 1799 left John Lewis a widower once more. His last marriage, to Mildred Ann Byrd Carter Mercer, the daughter of Landon Carter and widow of Robert Mercer, was not a happy one, and after the birth in 1810 of a son, Attaway, the couple separated.
As a young Virginian John Lewis enrolled in the state militia, attaining the rank of captain in about 1780, and assisted his father in the manufacture of gunpowder. His father's death in 1781 left the business entirely in Lewis' hands. At the same time he continued to be active in civic affairs, holding a seat on the Common Council of Fredericksburg. In 1785 he became seriously ill, and recuperated during lengthy visits to Abingdon, the home of Dr. David Stuart, and to Mount Vernon. (George Washington noted the latter visit in his diary). During the 1790's Lewis became interested in western lands, and after his separation from his fifth wife, he moved to Warren County, Kentucky, with his daughter Mary Ann.
Meanwhile Lewis' sons Gabriel and Warner Washington had also settled in Kentucky. The sons' connection with western affairs had begun in 1801 when they were employed by their father's half- brother Lawrence Lewis, the principal executor of the estate of George Washington, to survey the Kentucky lands belonging to the Washington estate. At the same time the two acted as agents for their father in locating tracts connected with military warrants he was purchasing. John Lewis gradually consolidated these properties into a single large holding in Warren County, and it was there that he and his daughter settled when they moved west in 1811. About a year later, however, Lewis' title to his Kentucky lands was challenged in the Kentucky courts, which decided in favor of the rights of the squatters on the property. Now landless, Lewis joined his sons in Logan County and remained at their home, “Elmwood,” until his death in 1825.
Gabriel Lewis outlived his father by nearly forty years, married twice, and fathered many children. Warner Washington Lewis, however, lived for only eight years after his father's death. He was drowned in an accident on the Wabash River while on a journey to New Harmony, Indiana, in the late spring or summer of 1833.
Eva Overton Lewis was born on September 12, 1893 to Anthony Overton (1864-1946) and Clara Gregg Overton (1867-1912) in Wanamaker, Oklahoma. Eva had three siblings: Everett Van Overton (1889-1960), Mabel Helena Overton Fowler (1891-1949), and Frances Madison Overton Hill (1894-1966). The family lived for a time in Kansas and Missouri before settling in Chicago, Illinois. Anthony Overton was a businessman and lawyer. He published the weekly newspaper The Chicago Bee and Half-Century Magazine, and established the Overton Hygienic Manufacturing Company, the Douglass National Bank, the Great Northern Realty Company, and the Victory Life Insurance Company.
Eva graduated from high school in Kansas City, Kansas and earned her A.B. from the University of Chicago in 1916 where she was a charter member of Beta Chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority. (She was later a charter member of Theta Omega, the graduate chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha in 1922). Eva was involved in her father's businesses, including as a secretary for the Overton Hygienic Manufacturing Company. She married Julian Herman Lewis on September 12, 1918. Eva and Julian had three surviving children: Gloria Julienne Lewis (1920-1998), Julian Herman Lewis, Jr. (1921-2001), and John Overton Lewis (1928-2021).
Julian Herman Lewis was born on May 26, 1891 in Shawneetown, Illinois, to educators John Calhoun Lewis (circa 1857-1945) and Cordelia O. Lewis (circa 1867-1933, née Scott). John Calhoun Lewis and Cordelia O. Lewis met at Berea College in Kentucky. Julian had two sisters: Laura Louise Lewis Young (1893?-1969) and Clara Vesta Lewis Caldwell (1893-1979). Julian graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Illinois in 1911 and earned an M.A. in 1912. He went on to earn a Ph.D. in physiology and pathology from the University of Chicago in 1915. His dissertation was published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases and he was awarded the Howard Taylor Ricketts Prize for "the student presenting the best results of research in Pathology or Bacteriology."
Julian completed his medical degree at Rush Medical College in 1917 (the school later awarded him the Benjamin Rush Medal in 1971). That same year, he was appointed as an Instructor to the Department of Pathology at the University of Chicago in association with the Otho S.A. Sprague Memorial Institute. He was the first African American to teach at the University of Chicago. He rose to Assistant Professor in 1923, and later to Associate Professor. Julian also served as a pathologist at Provident Hospital in Chicago, rising to Chief Pathologist.
In 1926, Julian was among the first to receive a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship award for study abroad. He conducted his research in laboratories at the University of Basel, Switzerland and at the Staatlichen Serotherapeutischen Institut in Vienna from 1926 to 1927. He was appointed to study “the chemical and immunological specificity of proteins isolated from organs as an approach to a study of the fundamental nature of immunity phenomena, particularly the relation of chemical constitution to biological specificity.” Eva, Gloria, and Julian, Jr. accompanied him to Europe, residing in Paris while Julian conducted his research.
Following the Lewis family's return to the United States, Julian continued his work on immunochemistry at the University of Chicago. He contributed to numerous scientific and medical journals and his work was featured in Life and Time. He was awarded a grant from the Julius Rosenwald Fund to complete a book titled The Biology of the Negro, published in 1942 by the University of Chicago Press. The book was a groundbreaking investigation of contemporary scientific data and literature on African-American physiology and pathology that resisted and rebuked scientific notions of racial inferiority. Julian Lewis left the University of Chicago in 1943.
In addition to Provident Hospital, Julian worked at St. Catherine's Hospital in East Chicago, St. Margaret Hospital in Hammond, Indiana, and finally as director of the pathology department at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in Dyer, Indiana. He was the first African American inducted into the scientific fraternity Sigma Xi and medical fraternity Alpha Omega Alpha.
Eva Overton Lewis died on October 29, 1945. Julian Herman Lewis died on March 6 1989. The first period in the history of the University Library, extending from the opening of the University in 1892 to the end of Zella Allen Dixson's administration in 1910, was marked by a continuing debate between proponents of departmental libraries and advocates of a consolidated central library. While decentralization of library resources was a common pattern at many colleges and universities during the late nineteenth century, departmental autonomy developed to an unusual degree at the University of Chicago. The recurring waste and inefficiency of acquisition and cataloging under a departmental system drew repeated criticism during the first eighteen years of the University Library's existence, yet the convenience afforded individual departments and faculty served to insure the retention of dispersed book collections.
The origin of these difficulties lay in William Rainey Harper's initial plan for the organization of the University Library. According to the prospectus issued in the first two numbers of the Official Bulletin (January and April 1891), the University Library was to consist of a General Library and a supporting series of departmental, laboratory, classroom, and extension libraries. The University Librarian, the chief administrative figure, was to be an executive officer of the University working under the direction of the University Council. The Librarian would have direct control of the General Library and supervise the operation of the departmental and auxiliary libraries. Each academic department was to be provided its own library and reading room, developed in consultation with the department head and controlled by an adviser appointed from the faculty.
This plan, never more than a rudimentary outline, was temporarily laid aside once Harper turned his attention to the acquisition of books and the recruitment of library staff. In July 1891, Zella Allen Dixson, the librarian of the Baptist Union Theological Seminary, was appointed Assistant Librarian on a half-time basis, with full-time duties to begin in October 1892. Dixson was to prepare the 10,000-volume B.U.T.S. library for transfer to the University of Chicago campus, and there supervise its integration with the 40,000-volume library being received as a legacy of the Old University of Chicago. Several weeks after Dixson's appointment, Harper augmented these collections with a remarkable purchase made in the course of a European tour: the entire stock of the Berlin book dealer S. Calvary, said to number 450,000 volumes. Although the University ultimately received only 96,650 volumes of books and theses from Calvary, the acquisition of the so-called "Berlin Collection" placed the University Library immediately on par with the largest academic libraries in the country.
The size of these holdings and the complexity of organization envisioned by Harper made the appointment of a strong experienced University Librarian crucial. Harper felt he had found such a personality in Zella Dixson's mentor, Melville Dewey, creator of the Dewey classification system and head of the innovative state library school in Albany, New York. During negotiations with Harper in early 1892, Dewey expressed an interest in assuming the dual position of University Librarian and Director of the University Extension, offering as well to bring his library school to the University of Chicago. Negotiations collapsed, however, when the New York state regents reassured Dewey of their support and granted him a substantial raise in salary. With Dewey's services lost and other matters pressing him from all sides, Harper suspended the search for a University Librarian and allowed the day-to-day supervision of the General Library to fall to Zella Dixson.
The most serious problem faced by the University Library during its first year of operation was the lack of an adequate building to house the book collections. Although Henry Ives Cobb's plan for the campus had included an impressive University Hall and Library on Ellis Avenue, no donor was ever found to provide funds for the structure. Instead, the General Library was housed in temporary space on the second floor of Cobb Hall during Autumn Quarter, 1892. In January 1893, the Library was moved into new quarters in a temporary Gymnasium-Library located in the northeast quadrangle of the campus. This one-story building, constructed as quickly and cheaply as possible, held the General Library stacks, offices, and reading room, as well as a women's gymnasium, a men's gymnasium, and the offices of the University Press. Constantly exposed to the dangers of fire and storm, the General collections remained in this overcrowded space until September 1902, when they were transferred to the second and third floors of the new University Press Building at 58th and Ellis. A final move to permanent quarters in Harper Memorial Library did not come until 1912.
Continual problems of space were compounded by the difficulties of inadequate administration. When the Library opened in the fall of 1892, it had been made part of one of the five divisions of the University, the University Libraries, Laboratories, and Museums, which was to include the General and departmental libraries, the General Museum and all special museums, and the laboratories of the University with their apparatus and materials. The division was to be headed by the Director of the University Libraries, Laboratories, and Museums, but this position, like the position of University Librarian, was never filled. In the absence of a Director or a University Librarian, the main administrative responsibilities devolved on the Board of Libraries, Laboratories, and Museums, a fifteen-member body formed in January 1893. The Board, consisting of President Harper, Zella Dixson, and members appointed from the faculty, soon found itself immersed in such matters as the pasting of labels into books, the setting of fines, the wording of gift acknowledgements, and the enforcement of regulations governing the printing and distribution of University theses and dissertations.
By far the greatest portion of the Board's time, however, was devoted to the persistently troublesome issue of departmental libraries. Organized informally as soon as the University opened, these libraries quickly began ordering books and establishing catalogs and rules under the direction of the faculty adviser and his student assistants. Four departmental libraries were already in operation by the end of Autumn Quarter, 1892; by early 1893, there were thirteen, and by Spring Quarter, 1895, the number had increased dramatically to twenty-four. The lack of a central library building and the inadequate space available for the General Library collections might have forced the development of a departmental system in any case, but the strong influence of the departments and their faculty, when combined with the lack of a strong Library administrator, made the drift of events permanent. Departmental libraries were soon scattered all over the growing campus, and provision for them became a standard element of each newly constructed University building. By 1898, departmental libraries held 65,000 volumes housed in forty-two separate rooms in ten buildings: Kent Laboratory, for example had three rooms devoted to the Chemistry, Public Speaking, and Music libraries, while Cobb Hall had eighteen library rooms holding seven departmental collections ranging from History and Political Economy to English.
The problems inherent in such a poorly controlled system were readily apparent. The fact that departmental libraries were administered by a faculty member, not a professional librarian and that the staff consisted solely of graduate students meant that cataloging was often irregular or incomplete. As departments moved frequently from building to building, so did the libraries-so frequently, in fact, and with such little concern for the system that in 1898 the Board directed departments not to move their libraries without first giving notice. Volumes in departmental libraries were not intended to circulate (except over-night in unusual circumstances), but by 1899 the ease of faculty and student access produced such steady losses of books that the Board recommended to the Trustees that a private detective be hired to investigate the situation. Stocks for departmental libraries came in part from departmental purchases, but they also developed through transfers from the holdings of the General Library and the un-cataloged mass of the Berlin Collection. Two or more departmental libraries could thus often claim priority for the transfer of the same volumes as each attempted to fortify its own holdings at the expense of the General collections.
Increasingly, the Board of Libraries, Laboratories, and Museums was forced to enter the fray as an adjudicator of such disputes and of other questions arising from the management of the departmental libraries. In 1895, William I. Thomas of the Sociology Department was appointed Superintendent of Departmental Libraries; he was given "general oversight of the administration of departmental libraries" and charged with examining all departmental book purchase and transfer requests, but his powers were limited to recommendations to the Board on actions it might take. In November 1896, the Board appointed Thomas to head a Committee on the Development of the Departmental Libraries in Connection with the General Library. Thomas's committee, after assessing the complete range of problems generated by the departmental system, recommended that the growth of departmental libraries be rigorously controlled through two new regulations: that 50 per cent of each department's book budget be allocated for books in its field in the General Library, and that each departmental library be limited to 3,000 volumes, after which any new acquisitions would be balanced by transfers back to the General collections. The Board considered Thomas's report in January 1897, but tabled it after an inconclusive discussion.
Efforts to reform the departmental system and plan for the future of the General Library did not resume until two years later. In April 1899, several days after President Harper expressed renewed concern for the physical safety of the General collections, the University Senate appointed a committee consisting of Professors Ernest D. Burton, J. L. Laughlin, Harry P. Judson, T. C. Chamberlin, and John U. Nef to consider the entire Library situation and its relation to educational policy. After surveying alternative systems of organization, the committee recommended that science libraries remain in departmental buildings, but that libraries in the social sciences and modern languages be located in a central library building. Following this lead, the Board of Libraries, Laboratories, and Museums in 1899-1900 directed the consolidation of twelve departmental libraries into three new group libraries: the Classical Group (Comparative Philology, Greek, Latin, and Archaeology); the Historical Group (Political Economy, Political Science, History, and Sociology); and the Modern Language Group (Romance Languages, Germanic Languages, English Languages, and English Literature).
In October 1900, the library question was taken up by yet another University body. During the regular quarterly meeting of the University Congregation, Professors Judson and Burton debated the merits of the departmental system, Judson recommending the greatest possible degree of consolidation, while Burton argued that interdisciplinary needs could be met by a consolidated catalog and a system of underground book-railways linking the General and departmental libraries. Following this discussion, the Congregation polled the departmental library committees and found that a consensus existed to permit science buildings to keep their departmental libraries, but that other departmental libraries would agree to locate in a central building only if their separate identities were maintained.
These conclusions were passed on to the Board of Libraries, Laboratories, and Museums, which in turn appointed Burton, Frederick I. Carpenter, and Zella Dixson as a committee to review them. The committee returned its recommendations to the Congregation in November 1901: that science department libraries be retained in their own buildings; that six Group Libraries (Philosophy and History, Theology and Semitic Languages, Classical Languages, Modern Languages, Mathematics and Astronomy, and Music and Fine Arts) be located in or attached to the General Library; and most significant of all, that the new central library building be located not at the designated Ellis Avenue site but instead on 59th Street at the south edge of campus, near the presumed site of the future social science and modern language buildings. After a second poll of the departments produced no further signs of agreement on the issue of consolidation, the Congregation asked the Board of Trustees to establish a commission to consult with an architect and formulate a proposal for an integrated library system.
The Joint Commission on Library Building and Policy, appointed by the Trustees in June 1902, included President Harper, Trustee Martin Ryerson, and Professors Carpenter, Coulter, Small, Judson, and W. G. Hale, with Burton serving as chairman. After discussions among its members and meetings with architect Charles Coolidge of the firm of Shepley, Rutan & Coolidge, the Commission submitted its report in August 1902. Quickly approved by the Congregation, the report was endorsed by the Trustees in September 1902. In short, the Commission's plan called for the central library to be housed in a long narrow building on a constricted site at the south edge of the quadrangles. The central library would be surrounded by departmental buildings, each with its own group library, and would be connected to them by bridges. To the west would be erected the Modern Language and Classics buildings, with the Historical and Social Science departments to the east, and Law, Philosophy, and Divinity to the north. The Commission also proposed the creation of a general catalog which would include the holdings of both the General and departmental libraries. The central building itself, housing the General Library, and some departmental stacks, was to provide space for 1,500,000 to 1,750,000 books and permit the growth of the General and Humanities Group collections for the next 75 to 100 years. Shortly after the adoption of the Commission's report, President Harper appointed Burton to tour libraries, universities, and colleges in the eastern United States and report on physical and administrative solutions to library problems adopted at other institutions. Burton's suggestions were incorporated into ongoing planning for the central library, although funds for construction of the building had not yet appeared.
When President Harper died in January 1906, the idea quickly grew that some sort of permanent memorial to his name should be established on campus. John D. Rockefeller agreed to give up to $600,000 toward the erection of a library in Harper's memory if $200,000 could be raised from other sources. This was quickly accomplished through the creation of the Harper Memorial Fund. Ground for Harper Memorial Library was finally broken on January 10, 1910, and the cornerstone was laid on June 14.
1910 was a turning point in the Library's history in another sense as well. Not only was the long-needed central building underway, but, Zella Dixson resigned her position as Associate Librarian effective July 1. Although the official announcement stated that she was leaving to devote her time to private literary interests, it appears likely that her resignation was forced. During her eighteen years as head of the General Library, Dixson had often been the focus of faculty complaints. Her courses in library science, first offered through the Extension in 1897, drew such criticism from the American Library Association that the University dropped them in 1902. Part of Burton's tour of the East in 1903 had in fact been devoted to inquiries about possible successors to Dixson.
If Zella Dixson's departure was a propitious development, the end of the first period in the Library's history was nevertheless marked by irony. President Harper's inability to secure the services of a University Librarian was, as Richard Storr has noted, his greatest and most puzzling failure as an academic organizer, while Harper's devotion to the departmental system had set in motion precisely those forces which made the construction of the library named in his honor so tortuously difficult to achieve. As late as 1903, in the wake of the Library Commission's report, Harper still found himself, in the President's Decennial Report, satisfied with the departmental system: "Without question," he wrote, "this policy is attended with some disadvantages, but upon the whole it may be said that it secures advantages which more than outweigh the disadvantages." Zella Dixson's successors, Ernest D. Burton and J. C. M. Hanson, would have to confront the legacy of this position, the organizational weakness it had encouraged, and the awkward administrative compromises it had produced, embodied now in the permanent form of Harper Memorial Library.
Rev. William Eleazar Barton (1861-1930) The Rev. William Eleazar Barton (1861-1930) was one of the early twentieth century's most prominent writers and lecturers on the life of Abraham Lincoln. Born in Sublette, Illinois, in the same year Lincoln assumed the presidency, Barton grew up in an environment heavily influenced by reverence for Lincoln. After pursuing undergraduate studies at Berea College in Kentucky, Barton earned his divinity degree from the Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1890. He served parishes in Tennessee, Ohio, and Massachusetts before becoming the pastor of the First Congregational Church of Oak Park, Illinois, a position he held until his retirement in 1924. Four years later, Barton accepted an appointment as lecturer at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, where he also organized and served as pastor of the Collegeside Congregational Church.
Barton's work as a writer produced a number of denominational manuals for church organization and a series of books presenting the wisdom and parables of a character he named Safed the Sage. For the last ten years of his life, however, Barton was best known to the public as a prolific author and lecturer on Abraham Lincoln. His publications about Lincoln included The Soul of Abraham Lincoln (1920), The Paternity of Abraham Lincoln (1920), The Life of Abraham Lincoln (1925), The Great and Good Man (1927), The Women Lincoln Loved (1927), and The Lincoln of the Biographers (1930).
In the course of compiling material for his writings and talks, Barton visited Lincoln sites in Kentucky, Indiana, and Illinois; interviewed surviving Lincoln relatives and acquaintances; and traveled as far as California and England to collect information and conduct genealogical research on the ancestry of the Lincoln family. While acquiring a large collection of books, periodicals, pamphlets, manuscripts, and ephemera related to Lincoln and the Civil War era, Barton also purchased privately or at auction historical materials amassed by other Lincoln collectors such as John E. Burton and Osborn H. Oldroyd.
Rev. William Eleazar Barton (1861-1930) The Rev. William Eleazar Barton (1861-1930) was one of the early twentieth century's most prominent writers and lecturers on the life of Abraham Lincoln. Born in Sublette, Illinois, in the same year Lincoln assumed the presidency, Barton grew up in an environment heavily influenced by reverence for Lincoln. After pursuing undergraduate studies at Berea College in Kentucky, Barton earned his divinity degree from the Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1890. He served parishes in Tennessee, Ohio, and Massachusetts before becoming the pastor of the First Congregational Church of Oak Park, Illinois, a position he held until his retirement in 1924. Four years later, Barton accepted an appointment as lecturer at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, where he also organized and served as pastor of the Collegeside Congregational Church.
Barton's work as a writer produced a number of denominational manuals for church organization and a series of books presenting the wisdom and parables of a character he named Safed the Sage. For the last ten years of his life, however, Barton was best known to the public as a prolific author and lecturer on Abraham Lincoln. His publications about Lincoln included The Soul of Abraham Lincoln (1920), The Paternity of Abraham Lincoln (1920), The Life of Abraham Lincoln (1925), The Great and Good Man (1927), The Women Lincoln Loved (1927), and The Lincoln of the Biographers (1930).
In the course of compiling material for his writings and talks, Barton visited Lincoln sites in Kentucky, Indiana, and Illinois; interviewed surviving Lincoln relatives and acquaintances; and traveled as far as California and England to collect information and conduct genealogical research on the ancestry of the Lincoln family. While acquiring a large collection of books, periodicals, pamphlets, manuscripts, and ephemera related to Lincoln and the Civil War era, Barton also purchased privately or at auction historical materials amassed by other Lincoln collectors such as John E. Burton and Osborn H. Oldroyd.
Rev. William Eleazar Barton (1861-1930) The Rev. William Eleazar Barton (1861-1930) was one of the early twentieth century's most prominent writers and lecturers on the life of Abraham Lincoln. Born in Sublette, Illinois, in the same year Lincoln assumed the presidency, Barton grew up in an environment heavily influenced by reverence for Lincoln. After pursuing undergraduate studies at Berea College in Kentucky, Barton earned his divinity degree from the Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1890. He served parishes in Tennessee, Ohio, and Massachusetts before becoming the pastor of the First Congregational Church of Oak Park, Illinois, a position he held until his retirement in 1924. Four years later, Barton accepted an appointment as lecturer at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, where he also organized and served as pastor of the Collegeside Congregational Church.
Barton's work as a writer produced a number of denominational manuals for church organization and a series of books presenting the wisdom and parables of a character he named Safed the Sage. For the last ten years of his life, however, Barton was best known to the public as a prolific author and lecturer on Abraham Lincoln. His publications about Lincoln included The Soul of Abraham Lincoln (1920), The Paternity of Abraham Lincoln (1920), The Life of Abraham Lincoln (1925), The Great and Good Man (1927), The Women Lincoln Loved (1927), and The Lincoln of the Biographers (1930).
In the course of compiling material for his writings and talks, Barton visited Lincoln sites in Kentucky, Indiana, and Illinois; interviewed surviving Lincoln relatives and acquaintances; and traveled as far as California and England to collect information and conduct genealogical research on the ancestry of the Lincoln family. While acquiring a large collection of books, periodicals, pamphlets, manuscripts, and ephemera related to Lincoln and the Civil War era, Barton also purchased privately or at auction historical materials amassed by other Lincoln collectors such as John E. Burton and Osborn H. Oldroyd.
The sociologist Luther Lee Bernard (29 Oct. 1881-23 Jan. 1951) was born in Russell County, Kentucky to the farmer Hiram H. Bernard and his wife Julia Wilson. Hiram H. Bernard, a former Union solider treated Luther tyrannically and that led to a bitter and antagonistic relationship between them. The family moved to West Texas in 1891 where Luther enrolled with teachers who introduced him to the subject of modern science and the writings of Charles Darwin.
After attending a high school which offered no grades Bernard entered Pierce Baptist College in Missouri. Graduating in1900, Bernard stayed on to teach science for two years; two more years teaching languages at Lamar College followed. After that Bernard entered the University of Missouri to complete his BA degree in 1907.
While Bernard earned his BA he studied with the sociologist, Charles A. Ellwood, a PhD from the University of Chicago. Ellwood’s reputation rested on the theory that society was bound by a “physic” rather than “real” bond. Bernard, in becoming a confrontational scholar would later critique these ideas.
Bernard earned his PhD at the University of Chicago under Albion Small. His thesis, “An objective standard of social control,” promoted the study of society as a whole over the study of the individual representative. He used the work of Emile Durkheim to critique the tradition of psychological sociology. Studying the whole of society would give a better scientific “social control.” This thesis involved a harsh critique on the work of Albion Small and thus the two scholars parted ways. In leaving the University of Chicago Bernard delivered a scathing six page letter in which he condemned the University of Chicago’s Department of Sociology for it’s approach toward education and which involved a heavy use of theory and abstraction rather than application and an aloofness towards student that hurt the students in their job searches. This was the first of the many confrontations he would provoke during his career.
Bernard was unsatisfied with his first job placement after his degree and viewed his position at the University of Florida as a form of exile from the academy. He moved on to the Universities of Minnesota (1918-1925) and North Carolina (1928-1929), Washington University in St. Louis (1929-1946), and Pennsylvania State (1947-1950). His frequent moving was viewed by his colleagues as reflective of his hypersensitive and prickly personality in addition to scandals that arose when his adulterous affairs began shortly after he married Francis Fenton, his fellow graduate student, in 1911. The marriage produced one child and Bernard and Fenton divorced in 1922. While teaching in Minnesota, the administrators forced Bernard’s resignation when he was charged with “common-law-marriage” which was then illegal in that state. Before moving on to Cornell in September 1925, Bernard married the gifted graduate student, Jessie Ravitch (more than twenty years his junior), whose scholastic work as Jessie Bernard surpassed his own. They had three children and remained married until his death but his philanderous practices made their marriage a stormy one. All in all, Bernard’s confrontational personality and rumors of his personal life subdued his academic achievements.
Despite his personal and professional troubles and the third rate universities that employed him Bernard grew to be “leading proponent of a radical variant of objectivist sociology”. He stated that positivistic sociology requires “projective logic,” which was later compounded by C. Wright Mill’s call for a “sociological imagination”.
Bernard argued that the ideal situation was one in which the individual adjusted perfectly to his surrounding environment. In Instinct he argued that instincts were learned customs and traditions, the way to social progress was through a manipulation of the environment.
In the 1930’s Bernard began collecting “life histories” in preparation for a history of sociology. He also collaborated with his wife Jessie Bernard in researching and published the history of positivism which they presented in 1943 as Origins of American Sociology. Extremely active within his profession, Bernard corresponded frequently with his “life history” interview subjects and with potential allies in his sociological debates. His letters became widely known as “L.L.B.’s onion skins.”
Considered a rebel within the field of Sociology Bernard, decided to take a more dominant role within professional organizations and organized a group to oppose the interpretive policies of the American Sociological Society (ASS). Successful in his opposition, Bernard was elected president in 1932. He emphasized research on contemporary social issues and recruiting women into the field. In Bernard’s presidential address he alienated many colleagues by attacking the existing research establishments. The Sociological Research Association was founded as a response and Bernard viewed his exclusion as an “elitist plot.” Bernard continued his struggle against the sociological establishment and resigned from the ASS in 1938. He then undertook editing American Sociologists which became the outlet for his professional opinions until 1947.
Concerned with the sociological position of the “little man” and not assured that New Deal focus on business was the only answer to the Depression, Bernard spoke out against Roosevelt and called for an “objective standard” that would balance the focus of the profession of sociology. Concerned with international issues since before his Argentinean fellowship (1926-1927) he spoke out against Fascism. Before the war ended Bernard published his critique, War and Its Causes and rejected the barbarity of war throughout history.
Although he perceived himself as marginalized from the sociological profession Bernard influenced his student George Lunberg who brought Bernard’s focus on “sociological objectivism” into the post war debate.
Bernard passed away in State College, Pennsylvania in 1951.
Lloyd Appleton Metzler was born on April 3, 1913 in Lost Springs, Kansas. He attended the University of Kansas, where he studied economics under John Ise and earned a Bachelor's degree in 1935 and an MBA in 1938. Metzler then entered Harvard University. He served as an instructor and tutor at Harvard and completed a Ph.D. in economics in 1942. His dissertation, "Interregional Income Generation," earned him the Wells Prize. That same year, Metzler was the recipient of a Guggenheim fellowship.
From Harvard, Metzler went on to Washington, D.C., where worked for the Office of Strategic Services and several economic policy and planning commissions between 1943 and 1946. Metzler joined the research staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in 1944. In 1946 he returned to academia when he accepted a teaching position at Yale University. He soon left Yale for the University of Chicago in 1947, where he remained for the rest of his career.
Dr. Metzler survived surgery for a brain tumor in 1952, and with the help of his wife Edith, managed to continue teaching and writing for the next twenty years. He served as Editor of the Journal of Political Economy from 1966 until his retirement in 1971. Metzler made numerous contributions to business cycle literature, macro-monetary theory, tariff theory, mathematical economics, and the field of international trade. The Metzler paradox, Laursen-Metzler effect, and Metzler matrix, all bear his name. He died on October 26, 1980.
State lotteries were used in 18th and early 19th century Britain to raise the capital for a variety of state projects. In this capacity, early state lotteries essentially functioned as loans to the government and prior to 1796 every ticket was guaranteed some return.
Initially, state lotteries worked to curb popular participation. Individual tickets were priced beyond the means of anyone but the wealthy out of a paternalistic concern to protect the lower classes from being seduced into deprivation. This scheme worked well for a time until lottery brokers devised schemes to sell fractional shares of tickets enabling them to reap greater profits from an expanded popular participation. This shift by ticket sellers seeking to draw a popular audience is reflected in the handbills used to advertise state lotteries.
Thomas Bish, accrued both fame and notoriety as a lottery broker. Bish was a major proponent, and profiteer, of state lotteries and played a significant role in their popularization. To this end he produced a variety of handbills designed to appeal to people of more modest means. The lotteries came to an end in 1826 amidst increasing corruption, unscrupulous practices by ticket sellers and intensifying concerns over the promotion of gambling.
Colonel Edmund Lyne was a frontier entrepreneur of the late eighteenth century, who lived and owned land in Blue Licks, which became a part of Nicholas County, Kentucky. He operated salt licks, a whiskey still, and a ferry service until his death in November or early December, 1791.
The collection is primarily of interest for what it reveals about the life-style of a man in Lyne's circumstances, his standard of living and his role in the commodity-exchange economy of the region. Lyne dealt in buffalo, beef, pork, basic foodstuffs, and whiskey. He traded salt for a number of items, including shoes, tallow, livestock, linen, and china. Chores connected with his various entrepreneurial projects were done either by slaves (manumitted at his death) or by hired laborers. As a rule little cash was exchanged, although Lyne did use it to purchase paper, a beehive, a butter mold, and wine glasses.
This collection contains the planning and promotional materials for the 57th Street Art Fair. Boxes 1 and 2 include administrative records of the Fair Committee, including minutes, financial reports, budgets and by-laws. These boxes also contain newspaper clippings about the Art Fair, lists of award winners, and an assortment of promotional materials including programs, postcards and bookmarks. Boxes 3-6 contain oversized materials. Boxes 3, 4 and 5 hold banners and posters of varying sizes, while box 6 contains t-shirts and other textiles.
ARCHIVAL BUILDINGS FILE
The Archival Buildings File was established in order to provide a means of organizing information and ephemeral materials relating to University buildings and making them more readily accessible. Many items are received by the Archives concerning the history, architecture, and use of various buildings and structures on campus, which do not have a place in other record groups.
The first part of the file contains materials concerning campus architecture in general, including guides and maps, articles, and souvenir booklets with pictures of buildings and campus scenes. Following these are folders for individual buildings, arranged alphabetically. Among the items that can be found are programs for groundbreaking ceremonies, cornerstone layings, and dedications, as well as promotional brochures, press releases, and articles and reports from various sources. The files sometimes include correspondence and other information concerning the design, construction, remodeling, and architectural decoration of the buildings. Since some buildings have been known by more than one name, patrons should check the listing for all possible headings relating to their subject of inquiry.
Materials are added to the files as they are received. The listing and file arrangement are provisional and subject to change as additions and updates are made.
Photographs of University buildings are located in Series II of the Archival Photographic Files. These include not only exterior and interior shots but also photo-reproductions of architects' drawings and photographs of construction sequences. There is a separate Postcard Collection which features images of campus buildings and scenes. The Archives also maintains a substantial collection of architectural drawings and blueprints of many buildings on campus. Other information on buildings can be found in various University publications, and in the records of the Department of Buildings and Grounds, the Presidents' Papers, the Harold Swift Papers, and minutes of the Board of Trustees and its committees. Files on particular buildings can be found in other record groups as well. Please consult a member of the archival staff for more information.
Throughout his long friendship and business association with Sun Ra, Alton Abraham collected manuscripts, business records, printed ephemera, artifacts, photographs, audio and video recordings, and other documents. The collection contains textual, graphic, and audio-visual records of the work of Sun Ra and members of the Arkestra, as well as professional and personal papers of Alton Abraham. The collection spans 1822-2008, with material concentrated in the late 1950s-1980s.
This collection also contains material of research value in the subjects of audio and film recording, independent music production and distribution, African-American communities in Chicago, radical politics, health sciences, book collecting, race theories, spirituality and the occult.
There is considerable duplication of materials, particularly printed ephemera, across the collection. Copies of the same item duplicated in multiple series often document different aspects of Sun Ra and Alton Abraham's endeavors.
The collection is arranged in twelve series:
Series I: Biographical, contains writings about Sun Ra, including interviews, critical essays, articles, and obituaries. Also included in this series are a small number of biographical writings about John Gilmore.
Series II: Performance, contains textual and graphic documents of Sun Ra performances from 1966-1989, as well as performances by members of the Arkestra and other associated musicians from 1993-1998. Materials include clippings, broadsides, handbills, programs, press releases, set lists, and tour itineraries.
Series III: Recording, contains textual and graphic documents of recordings by Sun Ra, members of the Arkestra, and other associated musicians from 1955-1995. Materials include discographies, catalogs, clippings, press releases, handbills, broadsides, advertising copy, radio playlists, drafts of track listings and liner notes, and production notes.
Series IV: Music Manuscripts, contains Sun Ra's original works and arrangements of standards. Also included are music manuscripts prepared by others, including Alton Abraham. Materials in this series include arrangements, compositions, sketches, lyrics, notes and fragmentary music notations. Many of the manuscripts are undated, but generally range from the 1960s-1980s.
Series V: Verse, Prose and Notes, contains manuscripts, proofs, broadsides, pamphlets, notebooks and books by Sun Ra. It also includes notes, fragmentary works, and a small number of works by Alton Abraham and unidentified writers. Most items are undated, but generally span the 1950s-1980s.
Series VI: Business Records, contains records of the business operations of Saturn Records and other endeavors managed by Alton Abraham in collaboration with Sun Ra and others. The bulk of this material was kept by Alton Abraham, though some material may have been collected from Sun Ra, John Gilmore and others. Materials date from 1939-1998, but mainly document business activities from the late 1950s through the mid-1990s. Material in this series includes legal agreements, business forms and stationery, financial records, ephemera, instructional books and pamphlets, correspondence and notebooks.
Series VII: Alton Abraham, documents Abraham's education, employment, personal life, and interests in areas such as spirituality, the supernatural, science and technology, politics, history, and music. There is also some material related to Abraham's friends, associates and family members. Materials in this series include publications, ephemera, educational and instructional materials, correspondence, notes, sheet music, songbooks and manuscripts. This series spans 1822-1993, with material concentrated in the 1940s-1980s.
Series VIII: Audio-Visual, contains photographs, audio recordings, and film and video recordings. Included are photographs of Sun Ra and the Arkestra, filmstrips and videocassettes, audio cassette tapes, reel tapes, and vinyl records. Many items are undated, spanning the late 1950s-1990s.
Series IX: Art and Artifacts, contains items related to Sun Ra, Saturn Records, and music in general; as well as personal items that belonged to Alton Abraham. In the first category are sample album jackets; proofs and layouts of album covers, catalogs and advertisements; drawings, sketches and paintings; photographs of artworks; musical instruments and equipment; metal stampers for vinyl records; printing blocks and office supplies. In the second category are decorative ornaments and personal items such as a wallet and a briefcase.
Some items are matted or framed for display. Most items are undated but generally span the late 1950s-1980s.
Series X: Oversize, consists of large-format materials transferred from previous series.
Series XI: Restricted, consists of personal financial records, academic records, medical records, and identification and registration documents, all transferred from Series VII.
This series contains biographical writings about Sun Ra, including interviews, critical essays, articles, and obituaries. Other biographical information includes a 1975 biographical statement, a postcard from the Hyde Park Art Center's "Pathways to Unknown Worlds" exhibition, a list of members of the Arkestra, and a map of Sun Ra's gravesite. Also included in this series are a small number of biographical writings about John Gilmore. Most of the writings in this series are in the form of clippings, photocopies, or sample copies of publications. This series is organized chronologically from 1966-2007, with undated material at the end of the series.
Autobiographical writings by Sun Ra are in Series V: Subseries 1. Discographies are in Series III: Subseries 2. Oversize materials, consisting of newspaper clippings, a scrapbook, a Buzzard comic book, and a poster for the Hyde Park Art Center's 2006 symposium "Sun Ra: The Astro Black and Other Solar Myths," have all been transferred to Series X: Subseries 1.
This series contains textual and graphic documents Sun Ra performances from 1966-1989, as well as performances by members of the Arkestra and other associated musicians from 1993-1998. Also included is material documenting the film Space is the Place. Materials include clippings, broadsides, handbills, programs, press releases, set lists, and tour itineraries. This series is chronologically by performance date. Performance dates are given as identified on the items. Undated items are at the end of the series.
Oversize broadsides, newspaper clippings, and posters (including several large-format posters for concerts and the film Space is the Place), been transferred to Series X; Subseries 2. Photographs, audio recordings, and film and video recordings of performances are in Series VIII. Some material in this series is duplicated in Series VI.
This series contains textual and graphic documents of audio recordings by Sun Ra and members of the Arkestra from 1955-1995. This series is organized into two subseries:
Subseries 1: Production and Promotion, is organized chronologically by item date or by recording release date. Item dates sometimes differ from release dates. Undated items are at the end of the series. Materials include catalogs, clippings, press releases, handbills, broadsides, advertising copy, radio playlists, drafts of track listings and liner notes, and production notes.
Subseries 2: Discographies, is organized chronologically by document date. This subseries contains discographies compiled by researchers of Sun Ra's work, as well as by Alton Abraham. Discographies are in the form of notes, lists, photocopied articles and printouts of computer files.
Oversize broadsides and posters, as well as a binder for the discography by Tilman Stahl, have been transferred to Series X: Subseries 3. Audio and audio-visual recordings are in Series VIII. Sample album jackets and other material related to album cover design are in Series IX. Some material in this series is duplicated in Series VI.
This series contains manuscripts of Sun Ra's music writing. Also included are music manuscripts prepared by others, and copies of original manuscripts. There are arrangements, compositions, sketches, lyrics, notes and fragmentary music notations. Peripheral material of Sun Ra and Alton Abraham, such as correspondence and notes, is also retained with the manuscripts, though it is not always related. Most manuscripts are undated, but generally range from the 1960s-1980s.
This series is organized into two subseries:
Subseries 1: Sun Ra Manuscripts, contains Sun Ra's manuscripts of his own music, as well as his arrangements of jazz standards. There are holograph manuscripts as well as copies that Sun Ra used to document copyright. Also included are untitled and fragmentary works, and a notebook containing a variety of Sun Ra's music writings.
Subseries 2: Manuscripts by Others, includes compositions by Alton Abraham, Walter Dunn, Ruth Lewis, Faith McBride, and unidentified composers. Some manuscripts may represent versions of Sun Ra's works that were transcribed by others, or works on which Sun Ra collaborated with others. Included are later manuscripts of songs recorded in the late 1950s by the Chicago R&B performer Yochanan. Materials are organized by size.
Manuscripts consisting primarily of lyrics and other verse writings are in Series V.
This series contains manuscripts, proofs, broadsides, pamphlets, notebooks and books by Sun Ra. It also includes notes, fragmentary works, and a small number of works by Alton Abraham and unidentified writers. Most items are undated, but generally span the 1950s-1980s. Correspondence of Sun Ra is retained with many of his writings. This series is organized alphabetically by title, subject or format.
One distinctive group of material is a collection of notebooks kept by Sun Ra and Alton Abraham. These contain a variety of content such as numerological figures, sketches, notes, and drafts of verse and prose. This series also contains several files related to The Immeasurable Equation, two volumes of Sun Ra's verse: This material includes manuscripts, proofs, sample copies and cover stock. There are other verse compilations including the unpublished The Magic Lie. Also of note are circa 1950s-1960s typescripts and broadsides in which Sun Ra articulated his beliefs during a formative part of his career. An unusual item is Sun Ra's application to an arts program operated by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).
Oversize proof sheets of pages of the Immeasurable Equation have been transferred to Series X: Subseries 4. Written music, including music with lyrics, is in Series IV.
This series contains records of the business operations of Saturn Records and other endeavors managed by Alton Abraham in collaboration with Sun Ra and others. The bulk of this material was kept by Alton Abraham, though he may have collected some items from Sun Ra, John Gilmore and others.
Alton Abraham's businesses operated under many different names and iterations. Business names are given as documented on items. Files are organized chronologically, with undated material at the end of the series. Materials date from 1939-1998, but relate mainly to business activities from the late 1950s through the mid-1990s. In addition to material related to the management of Sun Ra and members of the Arkestra, this series also documents Abraham's involvement with other performers and work as a dealer in occult books.
Material in this series includes legal agreements on matters such as recording, performance, record distribution and promotion; business forms and stationery; financial records, such as statements, invoices, reports, and receipts; ephemera, such as catalogs, broadsides, handbills, pamphlets, brochures and other promotional material; and instructional books and pamphlets related to music recording and production. General correspondence includes business mail, promotional material, customer orders and fan mail. Also included are notebooks kept by Alton Abraham: these contain a variety of content, including contact lists; draft promotional copy; notes on recordings and performances; and notes on personal matters.
Oversize financial records, correspondence, publicity material, notes and blank legal forms have been transferred to Series X: Subseries 5. Additional materials related to Abraham's hobbies and entrepreneurial interests are in Series VII. Additional documents of Sun Ra performances and recordings are in Series II and III.
This series documents Alton Abraham's education, employment, personal life, and outside interests. There is also some material related to Abraham's friends, associates and family members. This series is organized into six subseries.
Subseries 1: Spirituality and the Supernatural, contains books, periodicals and print ephemera reflecting Alton Abraham's interest in subjects such as religion, Egyptology, the occult, alternative medicine, extraterrestrials, and the afterlife. These materials span the years 1822-1988. This subseries is organized by format: There is a section of hardcover books; a section of paperback books; a section of periodicals; and a section of print ephemera. Each section is further organized alphabetically by author or organization.
Subseries 2: Science and Technology, contains material related to Abraham's lifelong interest in these subjects, as well as records of his education and employment in technical fields. Abraham collected material on a multitude of topics, such as nutrition, chemistry, psychology, communications technology, electronic surveillance, photography, agriculture, aerospace, and many more. Included are publications, printed ephemera, technical specifications, correspondence and notes. Files are organized chronologically from the 1920s-1993; undated materials are included at the end of the subseries.
Subseries 3: Politics and Society, contains publications and print ephemera on topics such as black nationalism, radical leftism, African society, and minority social issues. Files are organized chronologically from 1962-1992, with undated materials at the end of the subseries.
Subseries 4: Music Instruction, contains of Alton Abraham's collection of sheet music, songbooks, and instruction books. Files are arranged chronologically from 1923-1982, though most of the subseries consists of instruction books for popular music of the 1960s-1970s.
Subseries 5: Knights of Music, is a small collection of material documenting this African-American men's choral group, to which Alton Abraham belonged in the early 1950s. This subseries contains some of the group's concert programs and business records, as well as Abraham's certificate of membership and collection of choral music songbooks. This subseries also contains some related material that documents other unique aspects of African-American culture in mid-20th century Chicago: An invitation to the 1950 "Queen of May" frolic hosted by the Sepians, and an elaborate program for a performance of the Mildred B. Haessler Ballet Group. Material in this subseries dates from 1887-1953, but is concentrated in the early 1950s.
Subseries 6: Entrepreneurship, consists of correspondence, publications and printed ephemera dating from the 1960s-1980s. The majority of this material is direct marketing correspondence promoting pyramid capital schemes and other spurious business opportunities. Also included are correspondence and publications from the Bureau of Land Management, catalogs and correspondence from manufacturing concerns, and typescript excerpts of J.D. Borthwick's Three Years in California.
Subseries 7: Correspondence, Notes and Ephemera, contains material collected by Alton Abraham and his friends and family. Included are materials related to travel, book collecting, automobiles, employment, education, and civic affairs. This subseries also contains several files of notes and correspondence on a variety of personal subjects. Files are organized chronologically from 1929-1978, with undated material at the end of the subseries.
Oversize publications, clippings, sheet music and ephemera have been transferred to Series X: Subseries 6; among these items are several large-format posters and radical publications. Artifactual objects, such as decorative ornaments and other personal items, are in Series IX. Restricted materials, consisting of personal financial records, academic records, medical records, and identification and registration documents, have been transferred to Series XII.
This series contains photographs, audio recordings, and film and video recordings. Materials are organized by format into three subseries:
Subseries 1: Photographs, contains prints, contact sheets, transparencies and negatives. There are also photocopies and printed scans of photographs. Most photographs are in black and white, though some are in color. Many photographs are undated, but generally span the 1940s-1990s. Photographs of Sun Ra and the Arkestra include portraits, photographs of live performances, candid snapshots, and publicity stills for Space is the Place. Also included are photographs of Alton Abraham, photographs of travel in Egypt in elsewhere, and photographs of other performers. There are many unidentified photographs, particularly negatives.
Subseries 2: Film and Video, contains filmstrips and videocassette tapes. Most items are unidentified and undated, but generally date from the 1970s-1990s. Also included is an empty canister and box shipped in 1961.
Subseries 3: Audio, contains cassette tapes, reel tapes, and vinyl records. Included are recordings by Sun Ra and other performers, as well as test pressings and unidentified recordings. Inserts, correspondence and other accompanying material is found with some recordings. Materials span 1964-1999.
Text and graphic documents of Sun Ra performances and recordings are in Series II and III.
Materials in this series fall into two broad categories: Art and artifacts related to Sun Ra, Saturn Records, and music in general; and personal items that belonged to Alton Abraham. In the first category are sample album jackets; proofs and layouts of album covers, catalogs and advertisements; drawings, sketches and paintings; photographs of artworks; musical instruments and equipment; metal stampers for vinyl records; printing blocks and office supplies. In the second category are decorative ornaments and personal items such as a wallet and a briefcase.
Some items are matted or framed for display. These are organized together at the beginning of the series and arranged by size and format. The remaining items in the series are arranged by size. Most items are undated but generally span the late 1950s-1980s.
This series includes a wealth of material documenting the process of designing and producing album covers for Sun Ra recordings. For some albums, there is original artwork, layout designs, album cover proofs, and sample album jackets. There are some alternate album cover artwork that was not used, and some for unreleased or possibly hypothetical recordings. Also included are several job files compiled by printing companies that produced packaging for reissued Sun Ra records in the 1970s and 1980s. These files consist of negatives, proofs and job specifications. Another unusual group of materials consists of thousands of record labels for Sun Ra albums. There is also artwork and layout material for albums by Lacy Gibson and Lena McLin. Names of performers and recordings are as given on the artwork or artifact. Artist names are given when identified on items; many artworks with no attributed artist are probably by Sun Ra.
This series consists of oversize material transferred from series I, II, III, V, VI and VII. It is organized into subseries corresponding to the arrangement of these series.
Subseries 1: Biographical, contains newspaper clippings, a scrapbook, a Buzzard comic book, and a poster for the Hyde Park Art Center's 2006 symposium "Sun Ra: The Astro Black and Other Solar Myths."
Subseries 2: Performance, contains broadsides, posters and newspaper clippings documenting Sun Ra performances.
Subseries 3: Recordings, contains broadsides and posters promoting Sun Ra's commercial recordings, as well as a binder that housed the Tilman Stahl discography.
Subseries 4: Verse, Prose and Notes, contains oversize proof sheets of pages of the Immeasurable Equation.
Subseries 5: Business Records, contains financial records, correspondence, publicity material, notes and blank legal forms.
Subseries 6: Alton Abraham, contains publications, clippings, sheet music and ephemera. Included are several large-format posters and radical publications.
This series consists of personal financial records, academic records, medical records, and identification and registration documents transferred from Series VII.
The Jane Addams Collection contains incoming and outgoing correspondence from 1894 to 1919, arranged in chronological order. Among Addams’ correspondents are author Harriet Comstock, British social reformer Percy Alden, and Princess Alexander of Teck, later Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone. Also included is a letter from British nurse and journalist Honnor Morten to author Julia Clifford Lathrop in which Morten expresses her eagerness to meet Addams.
The collection was previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
This collection contains drawings and photographs of various medical deformities.
Series I and II contain replications of illustrations found in two volumes containing 49 total plates. The volumes, entitled Atlas zu Die Missbildungen des Menschen, are held in the SCRC Rare Books collection (call # fQM691.A3). The drawings and illustrations are also associated with Ahlfelds’ book, Die Missbildungen des Menschen (call# ffQM691.A3). The illustrations depict abnormalities of a wide variety of body parts but most convey conjoined twins, or deformed genitalia or heads. Within the volumes, the illustrations are about four square inches in size; there are between 12 and 22 illustrations per page. The accompanying drawings are of individual illustrations from the volumes. Approximately three-quarters of the illustrations are replicated by drawings. Drawings of illustrations from the same page in the volume are grouped together. Several of the illustrations are accompanied by more than one drawing. Some of the drawings appear to be originals and others have been cut from a published piece.
Series III, Ephemera and Photographs contains illustrations that depict abnormalities, mostly those of conjoined twins, deformed genitalia, and heads. The illustrations are arranged according to the number written on each. This number may be associated with a past exhibition of Ahlfled’s drawings and illustrations. The photographs are of women during labor, infants, and other abnormalities.
The American Institute of Sacred Literature records consist of 13 linear feet and cover the period 1880-1943. The collection includes general correspondence files that have been arranged chronologically by year and in most cases has a rough alphabetical treatment, by writer, within the year. Where distinct groupings of correspondence could be related, this has been done, and the material filed at the end of the general correspondence for that particular year. Some of the purely historical material, early undated material and printed Hebrew lessons will be found in the first box. At the end of the sequence more undated course material, of a later period, and a partial file of The Institute will be found.
This collection of correspondence is related to other material in the University Archives, particularly the Divinity School correspondence. Men such as Ira M. Price and Edgar J. Goodspeed, who were involved with the Institute, were often connected with the Morgan Park Theological Seminary which was to become part of the University of Chicago's Divinity School. And so information about these men and their work is in this collection. Further information relating to the Chautauqua summer schools and the Modernist-Fundamentalist controversy is to be found in the correspondence over-and-above the value of the collection which as a whole provides information on the Bible study movement in the United States, and the career of President Harper.
The Samuel King Allison papers contain 19.5 linear ft. of material that cover the period from the 1920s to the 1960s. The papers document his career at the University of Chicago, both as student and faculty member, and his research on X-rays and lithium. It also includes material on his service as director of the Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear Studies (1945-1965), and his chairmanship of the Physics Section of the National Academy of Sciences. The collection contains correspondence, manuscripts, notebooks, course notes, reprints, lectures, and speeches. The files themselves have not been formally processed and reflect the original order of the donation.
The collection has been divided into six series:
Series I contains materials from the University of Chicago.
Series II contains Allison’s X-ray Research.
Series III is Allison’s Lithium Research.
Series IV contains materials from the Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear Studies.
Series V contains materials from the National Academy of Sciences.
Series VI contains Allison’s Visual Materials.
This collection tracks fundraising campaigns from 1941 to 1965. The collection is organized first by campaign year, covering fundraising campaigns from 1948-1955 and 1959-1961, each year containing correspondence, membership lists, minutes, and progress reports. The collection includes the Foundation's "Honor Roll" of donors for 1942-1946. Contributions are broken down by graduating class, city, and degree granted; individual contribution amounts are not listed. The collection concludes with scrapbooks containing fundraising materials - predominately mailings - from 1941 to 1965.
Series I contains drafts of published and unpublished manuscripts, including a memoir, short stories, nonfiction articles, and poetry. Correspondence concerning the publication of Ames’s book about the painter Marsden Hartley is also included in this series. Some manuscripts by others are contained in this series, as well as publicity for and reviews of exhibitions of Ames’s painting and sculpture. Series II contains correspondence among various members of the Ames family, as well as Polly Scribner Ames’s other personal and professional correspondence. Also included are Ames’s journals, the bulk of which are from the 1960s. Series III contains several oversize items, including exhibition advertisements and press clippings as well as research for Ames’s book about Marsden Hartley.
The contents of Box 12A were previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
The Van Meter Ames Papers consist of one box containing articles, manuscripts, paper abstracts, and other items related to Van Meter Ames from 1931 to 1985. The majority of these items are articles.
The Michael Anania Papers are divided into eight series: Series I, Personal; Series II, Correspondence; Series III, Professional, Series IV, Manuscripts by Anania; Series V, Manuscripts and Publications by Others; Series VI, Newspaper Clippings, Publications and Oversize; Series VII, Audio-Visual; and Series VIII, Restricted. The Michael Anania Papers contain drafts, manuscripts, proofs, reviews, publications, unpublished writings, biographical material, college coursework, correspondence, ephemera, newspaper clippings, photographs, audio cassettes, compact discs, and video cassettes. The papers document Anania’s personal life, academic career, involvement in professional and literary organizations, and writing and editorial career.
Series I, Personal, contains biographical and personal material, Who’s Who, interviews, curriculum vitae, and newspaper articles. There are also notes and term papers from Anania’s college coursework, including those related to his dissertation on William Carlos Williams. There is also a small amount of photographs of Anania, Nelson Algren, and others.
Series II, Correspondence, contains letters between Anania and his colleagues, peers, friends, and a small amount from family. It is arranged alphabetically by the last name of the writer, with correspondence from Anania filed by last name of the recipient. The correspondence discusses authors, manuscripts and publications by Anania and others, and other business items relating to his role as editor of Swallow Press and other publications. Other topics include authors asking advice on their writing or publications, submission of manuscripts, events, and personal.
Frequent correspondents include David Bahr, Robert Bray, Charles Boer, Ed Colker, Albert Cook, Cyrus Coulter, Robert Dana, Charles Doria, William Ehrhart, Raymond Federman, Giovanna Fozzer, Reginald Gibbons, Mac Hammond, Roger Hecht, David Ignatow, John Jacob, Kenneth Koch, John Matthias, Tom McGrath, John McManus, James McMichael, R. Bruce McPherson, Peter Michelson, Jennifer Moyer, Charles Newman, Sterling Plumpp, James Ramholz, Natalie Robins, James Schevill, Dennis Schmitz, Wallis Scott, Ken Smith, Lucien Stryk, Ronald Sukenick, Robert Sward, and Chad Walsh. Others include Elliott Anderson, Robert Archambeau, Jeffrey Renard Allen, James Atlas, Russell Banks, Marvin Bell, James Bertolino, Robert Bonazzi, Gwendolyn Brooks, Betty Anne Clarke, Robert Creeley, Mary Mills Dunea, Maurice English, Christopher Fox, Vi Gale, Barbara Guest, Susan Grathwohl, Shelby Hearon, Anselm Hollo, Edwin Honig, Catherine Kasper, August Kleinzahler, John Knoepfle, Ralph Mills Jr., William Moebius, Ron Offen, Linda Pastan, William Phillips, William Rickman, Martin Robbins, Carola Sautter, Reginald Shepherd, Charles Simic, Al Stevens, Nathanial Tarn, Durrett Wagner, Diane Wakowski, Ralph Wardle and Richard Wentworth. See Series III and V for additional correspondence that has remained with the material with which it is directly associated.
Series III, Professional, contains material related to Anania’s roles as professor, editor, teacher, poet, speaker, panelist, and involvement in professional organizations. There is correspondence, brochures, fliers, announcements, invitations, book and poetry notices and catalogs, and other ephemera. Much of the correspondence includes requests for or acknowledgements of contributions to publications, speaking engagements, readings, and participation in panels and events. There are letters and other documents relating to the Council of Literary Magazines and Presses, Illinois Center for the Book, Read Illinois, National Endowment for the Arts, literary festivals, and conferences. The academic papers include syllabi, course materials, and M.A. and Ph.D. exam questions. There is also material about awards Anania received and awards and honors given to others.
Series IV, Manuscripts by Anania, has drafts, notes, manuscripts, and proofs of Anania’s published works, poems, short stories, essays, talks, book reviews, and other writings arranged alphabetically by title. The untitled manuscripts are drafts of poems, short stories, and essays.
Series V, Manuscripts and Publications by Others, contains material Anania received from friends, students, peers, and colleagues. There are drafts, proofs, outlines, proposals, publications, reprints, broadsides, student papers, theses, dissertations, and other manuscript material, sometimes with inscriptions and notes from the authors. Some manuscripts were submitted for consideration to be published by Swallow Press, to receive professional or personal feedback from Anania, or as course requirements. There is some correspondence with the manuscripts. See Series II and III for additional correspondence.
Series VI, Newspaper Clippings, Publications and Oversize, has articles about events with Anania, reviews of his books, reviews he wrote and published, and other collected articles. The publications are a small amount of poetry newsletters and journals. The oversize material is primarily posters, broadsides, lectures, poems, proofs, conferences, and newspapers with articles about or by Anania.
Series VII, Audio-Visual, is restricted due to the condition of the material or need for special equipment. Select material reformatted – for access SEE Audio-Visual Reformatted Collection. It contains cassettes, CDs, and videos of various poetry events with Anania, Gwendolyn Brooks, Mac Hammond, and others, as well as interviews with Anania and his appearances on other radio programs, including interviews with Studs Terkel.
Series VIII, Restricted, contains financial and student material. Folders 6, 10, and 11 will not be open for research until 2081. All other folders will not be open for research until 2049.
Series VII, Audio-Visual material is restricted due to the condition of the material or need for special equipment. Select material reformatted – for access SEE Audio-Visual Reformatted Collection.
Series VIII, Restricted, contains financial and student material. Folders 6, 10, and 11 will not be open for research until 2081. All other folders will not be open for research until 2049.
The C. Arnold Anderson Papers consist of five boxes of chronologically arranged articles, notes, correspondence and manuscripts from 1937 to 1990.
The records of the University of Chicago Department of Anthropology include materials from 1929 when the Department was founded as a distinct entity under the Chairmanship of Fay-Cooper Cole until 1996. Periods in this timeframe are unevenly represented with the bulk of materials from the 1960's to 1996.
Series I: Fay-Cooper Cole Papers includes the professional papers of Professor Fay-Cooper Cole. This alphabetically ordered series incorporates Cole's professional correspondence with fellow professors, university administrators, professional organizations, anthropological institutions and funding agencies, as well as his graduate students' field reports.
Series II: Research is divided into four subseries documenting a range of early research activities carried out by the Department of anthropology. Subseries 1 contains the correspondence and research materials of the Committee on the Ethnohistory of the Upper Mississippi River Valley. Subseries 2 incorporates field reports and correspondence relating to summer archeological research conducted primarily at Kincaid Mounds, but also at other sites throughout the region and the country. Subseries 3 contains miscellaneous research materials and correspondence relating to the archaeological research conducted in the department of anthropology.
Subseries 4 includes correspondence, field materials, interview transcripts, surveys and field notebooks from the Winnebago/Ho-Chunk research of Rachel Commons and Leo Srole. [Commons died of Pneumonia with her Winnebago research incomplete. Srole was later sent to pick up where she left off, the field materials in subseries four are the partial result of that enterprise. Other materials relating to Commons/Srole can be found in Fay-Cooper Cole's correspondence in Series I.]
Series III: Alphabetical files incorporates three alphabetically ordered subseries that represent the administrative papers and departmental correspondence from the period following Fay-Cooper Cole's retirement, though it most fully represents the years between 1950 and 1970. This series most likely corresponds to the period in which Robert Redfield and Fred Eggan alternated as chair of the Department, with Sol Tax also periodically holding the position. The series is divided into three subseries.
Subseries 1: Correspondence incorporates alphabetically filed departmental correspondence from 1950-1956. Subseries 2: General Alphabetical Files, incorporates the administrative correspondence of the department with various institutions, other universities and funding agencies. Subseries 3: Wenner-Gren Symposium on Graduate PhD Curricula holds the contributions of various anthropology departments from across the country to a 1958 Wenner Gren conference on Anthropological PhD curricula.
Series IV: Microfilm includes a collection of departmental microfilms pertaining to various fields of research. Subseries 1 contains microfilm pertaining to Chiapas and the University of Chicago Chiapas Project. Subseries 2 contains materials on Guatemala.
Subseries 3 incorporates materials from Sol Tax's Research on the Fox and Sauk native American tribes in Tama, Iowa, and some subsidiary materials. Subseries 4 incorporates materials pertaining to linguistic and socio-cultural research on India. Subseries 5 includes miscellaneous and/or unlabeled microfilm materials.
Series V: Buildings and Space incorporates correspondence, surveys, architectural plans and information pertaining to the maintenance of, allocation to and movement from various campus buildings. The bulk of material involves the Walker Museum and Haskell Hall. Also of interest are materials relating to the procurement and installation of the Totem Pole in Haskell Hall.
Series VI: Teaching incorporates syllabi, teaching statements and curricula for undergraduate and graduate courses in anthropology. Most of these materials pertain to required anthropology courses.
Series VII: Administration incorporates in a single chronologically-organized series the Department's internal administrative files as well as those concerning the department's connection to the Division of Social Sciences, the College and the central University administration. As these materials are central administrative papers, they are subject to restriction for 30 years from their date of production. Their organization into a single chronological sequence facilitates research by allowing researchers to access earlier files while later files are still subject to restriction. These papers date from 1934 to 1997.
Series VIII: Faculty and Staff consists of a single chronologically-organized series of files pertaining to faculty and staff recruitment, salary information and correspondence. As these files contain data of a financial and budgetary nature, they are subject to a 50 year financial restriction from the date of their production. This series has been organized chronologically so researchers may access the earlier files while the later files remain under restriction. The dates of these files span from 1938 to 1991.
Series IX: Finance consists of six subseries that incorporate departmental financial materials. Because of the financial and budgetary nature of the materials in this series, they are subject to a 50-year financial restriction from the date of their production. Subseries 1: Departmental Budgets incorporates departmental budgets and accounting information from 1939-1986. Subseries 2-5 include materials related to various private and government granting agencies. Subseries 6: Miscellaneous Finance incorporates miscellaneous materials relating to departmental expenditures, including departmental luncheon invoices and expense accounts.
Series X: Students incorporates five subseries concerning the students in the Department of Anthropology. Subseries 1: Student Files is comprised of student files which may include grades, correspondence, financial information and admission information for students. Subseries 2: Exams includes original copies of official student departmental examinations as well as faculty commentary and grades for the exams. Subseries 3: Grades includes grade sheets and reports from the registrar's office, as well as individual term papers and class rosters that include student evaluative material. Subseries 4: Awards and Aid includes reports and evaluations and allocations of student funding and recommendations and nominations for student awards and membership in honor societies such as Sigma Xi and Phi Beta Kappa. Subseries 5: Jobs and Recommendations includes correspondence and faculty recommendations for department students for jobs at other universities.
The Archival Biographical File was established in order to organize and make accessible information on faculty members, officers, trustees, staff members, and other individuals related to the University. The materials have been received from many sources, although the largest portion has come from the Office of University News and Information and its predecessors. No attempt is made by the Archives to systematically collect biographical information on all members of the University community, but appropriate items are filed here as they are received.
The file includes biographical data sheets, curriculum vitae, obituaries, press releases, articles, and news clippings. Some folders also contain small amounts of letters and other original manuscripts. With a few exceptions, the file does not contain information on students or alumni, unless they have some other affiliation with the University.
Book-length biographies, autobiographies, and memoirs are listed in a separate inventory, "Archival Biographical Monographs."
New materials are regularly received and added to the file. This listing will be updated periodically to reflect any changes.
The Archives has many other resources for obtaining information on faculty and staff members of the University, including official publications, records of departments and offices, and papers of individuals. Please consult a member of the Archival staff for further assistance.
The Roman Weil Collection of Boris Artzybasheff works is organized into three Series: Series I: Magazine Illustrations; Series II: The Wickwire Steel Company Illustrations; Series III: The Last Trumpet. The collection contains illustrations by the Russian-American artist Boris Artzybasheff ranging from magazine covers, industrial advertisements, a map, a series of large advertisement poster prints, and a woodblock print. The collection spans from 1929 to the artist's death in 1965, but the bulk of the collection features works were produced during World War II, in the early 1940s. Like the wide-ranging media found in the collection, researchers can expect to find a wide range in subject matters within the collection. The images describe foreign leaders, American political leaders, anthropomorphized machinery, descriptive maps, technological innovations, political satire, and poetic figurations.
Series I, Magazine Illustrations, contains items from Time Magazine, Fortune Magazine, Life Magazine, The Golden Book Magazine, The Colophon Quarterly, and Mechanix Illustrated Magazine. The bulk of this series is made up by Time Magazine Issues that range from 1941 to 1965. Because Artzybasheff illustrated advertisements as well as magazine covers, the items included vary in completeness. In some instances, only the magazine cover was collected. For the most part, Weil collected the front and back cover, as well as a selection of pages from the magazines describing foreign news, politics, or the economy. There are a few Time Magazine issues preserved in their entirety. Likewise, the Mechanix issue of 1954 is preserved in its entirety. The series is grouped by publication and each publication is organized chronologically.
Series II, The Wickwire Steel Company Illustrations, contains seven framed advertisement posters and the pamphlet published in 1944 of the "Axis in Agony!" The industrial company commissioned Artzybasheff to produce politically charged advertisements for their industrial products. The collection depicts Axis leaders—Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini, and Fumimaro Konoe--being defeated or ridiculed by anthropomorphized creatures and industrial processes. The accompanying pamphlet contains all the images Artzybasheff created for the Wickwire Steel Company in a small format.
Series III, The Last Trumpet, contains a single frame that contains "The Last Trumpet" woodblock print and a short essay by Carl Carmer. The essay is biographical and interpretive of the accompanying image. Artzybasheff's woodblock print depicts a large angel holding a long trumpet atop a crumbling classical cornice. In the background, a modern city-scape is being consumed by fire.
The records of the ASC have been arranged into four series: I. Subject Files, II. Correspondence, III. Library of the ASC, and IV. Addenda. The collection covers the period 1943-1955 and includes correspondence; financial records, miscellaneous manuscripts; and records of the Chicago Committee for Civilian Control of Atomic Energy, a group of non-scientist Chicagoans affiliated to the National Committee for Civilian Control, supporting the atomic scientists’ fight for civilian control of atomic energy.
In arranging the papers of the ASC the original order has been maintained. In some cases apparent inconsistencies will arise in arrangement, but because of the extent of the collection no major attempt has been made at this time to correct these discrepancies. Researchers are therefore strongly urged to search all possible places where material might be filed when seeking a particular item, e.g., when seeking a specific letter of Harold Urey, his file in Correspondence Files, the Executive Committee’s Files, the subject files, etc., should be searched.
The Subject Files have been arranged by subject matter, alphabetically; each subject group is further sub-divided alphabetically; material in each folder is arranged by date. The Correspondence Files are arranged alphabetically as follows: first, under each letter of the alphabet there is a General Correspondence File, containing material and correspondence arranged alphabetically; second, following each General Correspondence File there are Subject Files, arranged alphabetically, each folder arranged by date. In both the Subject Files and the Correspondence Files near-print material and newspaper clippings, and other miscellaneous material will often be found. Generally, the Subject Files contain correspondence, near-print material, and miscellaneous matter relative to a specific subject. However, if the subject did not seem to warrant a separate grouping, the material was often filed in the Correspondence Files.
The third series, Library of the ASC, consists of miscellaneous correspondence and printed material. Series IV, Addenda, has been arranged into four subseries that include Atomic Scientists of Chicago, University Office of Inquiry, Associated Scientific Groups, and Conferences. The addenda comprise the years 1945 to 1954, mostly of the periods 1945 to 1947, and with a scattering of 1954 papers, the bulk of which concern the Oppenheimer Case. Except for amplifying the atomic energy conferences, and the material on the Oppenheimer Case, the addenda appear to add little informational value to that contained in the other three series. A similarity of folder headings should enable the user to correlate Series IV with Series’ I through III.
The addenda series also includes the papers of Lester Guttman, one time chairman of the Atomic Scientists of Chicago and longtime member of its executive committee. Guttman, a physical chemist, was with the Manhattan Project in New Mexico from 1943 to 1946. He was a member of the faculty of the Institute for Metals at the University of Chicago from 1946 to 1955. In 1956, he became a senior chemist at Argonne National Laboratories, administered by the University of Chicago for the U.S. Government. The papers include files from his membership in both the ASC and the Federation of American Scientists.
Series III, Library of the Atomic Scientists of Chicago, includes correspondence, scripts, near-print material, etc. relating to work of the ASC.
The third series, Library of the ASC, consists of miscellaneous correspondence and printed material. Series IV, Addenda, has been arranged into four subseries that include Atomic Scientists of Chicago, University Office of Inquiry, Associated Scientific Groups, and Conferences. The addenda comprise the years 1945 to 1954, mostly of the periods 1945 to 1947, and with a scattering of 1954 papers, the bulk of which concern the Oppenheimer Case. Except for amplifying the atomic energy conferences, and the material on the Oppenheimer Case, the addenda appear to add little informational value to that contained in the other three series. A similarity of folder headings should enable the user to correlate Series IV with Series' I through III.
The American Veterans Committee, Chicago Area Council records spans from 1946-1973, with the bulk of the collection from 1946-1958. It is organized into three series, “Convention Material,” “Chicago Area Council” and “American Veterans Committee Publications.” “Chicago Area Council” series is divided into two subseries: “Correspondence” and “Organizational Documents.” Series I is arranged chronologically with a gap between 1952 and 1955. Documents consist of correspondence, memoranda, planning materials, by laws, and booklets regarding both national and Chicago-area conventions. Subseries 1 of Series II consists primarily Stanley A. Kaplan’s incoming and outgoing correspondence in his role as Chairman of the American Veterans Committee. Subseries 2 of Series II documents include correspondence, minutes, publications, memorandums, by-laws, financial documents, and booklets of the Chicago Area Council. Series III include AVC publications: The “AVC Bulletin,” a book and an issue of The Atlantic Monthly (both written by Charles G. Bolte), and other newspaper clippings about the AVC.
Of potential interest are the writings on and about the desegregation of the military and the growing anti-communist sentiments towards the AVC. Researchers interested in union and or Veterans history, especially with regards to Chicago, will find this collection useful.
The files were collected by Stanley A. Kaplan (1910-1981), Professor Law at the University of Chicago and former chairman of the AVC. A majority of the correspondence, memoranda, and AVC National Convention notes were written to or by Kaplan.
The Barton Codex Manuscripts is made up of bound materials compiled by William E. Barton, a pastor in Oak Park, Illinois, who published and lectured on Abraham Lincoln extensively. Barton also maintained connections with fellow Lincoln experts and carried out multiple research projects that delved into the many facets of Lincoln's life, times, and family history. This collection divided into six series: ministry; books; theater; booklets, pamphlets and periodicals; published addresses, lectures and research papers; and lastly, scrapbooks. Of particular interest is the volume titled Lincoln and His Cabinet. These codex manuscripts form part of the William E. Barton Collection of Lincolniana.
This series contains materials related to Barton's career in the Ministry, including books, sermons and sermon notes, clippings and articles.
This series contains manuscripts of plays and other documents related to the theater.
The majority of Barton's scrapbooks consist of published texts into which he pasted folded newspaper clippings, prints, and notes. For additional scrapbooks see Lincoln Collection. Barton Scrapbooks.
The George Wells Beadle papers include speeches, correspondence, subject files, inauguration papers, invitations, press releases, newspaper clippings, offprints, calendars, honorary degrees and certificates, photographs, albums, medals and plaques.
Series I: SPEECHES, 1961-1976
Series II: INAUGURATION PAPER
Series III: SUBJECT FILES, 1961-1968
Series IV: MISCELLANEOUS
The speeches in this collection date from February 10, 1961, shortly after George Beadle's election to the Chancellorship on January 5th of that year, to November 8th, 1976, just before Edward H. Levi was inaugurated as the new President November 14th. In October of 1961 the title of the head of the University was changed from Chancellor to President. The collection thus covers George Beadle's entire formal leadership career at the University.
The speeches pertain both to Mr. Beadle's presidency - to the functioning of the University and its educational aims and processes - and to his work in biology, focusing on genetics and heredity.
The addresses are listed chronologically, with the title (if there was a formal title), and the audience. The list was prepared by Mr. Beadle's secretaries initially, and only checked and updated by the Special Collections staff.
The actual forms of the speeches vary; in some cases only notes have been preserved, although most speeches are represented by typed, final copies. Occasionally some correspondence is present concerning the meetings for which the speeches were presented.
The collection is open for scholarly research, not subject to the 25 year restrictions of the "Regulations Governing Access to Records of the Central Administration in the University Archives" because Mr. Beadle's speeches were public at the time of their delivery.
The Henry H. Belfield and Belfield Family papers consists of letterbooks, personal correspondence, and other papers of Henry H. Belfield, 1849-1913, and correspondence and papers of Belfield's parents and other relatives, 1844-1967. The papers are divided into three series.
The first series in the collection contains correspondence and papers of Henry H. Belfield. These include four letterbooks with copies of letters pertaining to his work at the Chicago Manual Training School, 1883-1901; personal correspondence, arranged chronologically, 1849-1909; autobiographical writings; and other papers concerning Belfield's career in education, his service in the army during the Civil War, and his family life.
This series includes correspondence, papers, and memorabilia of relatives of Henry H. Belfield. Many of the letters were written to his father, William Belfield, by other members of the family; they are filed by the name of the correspondent. Subjects include news of family members and neighbors, and business and property matters. Of particular note are letters from Thomas Belfield while he was mining in California and Nevada in 1850-1851 (2:13).
Materials in the "genealogical information and correspondence" folder (2:22) will aid in identifying individuals named in this series.
The Henry H. Belfield and Belfield Family Papers Addenda consists of Henry H. Belfield's 1904 diary as well as newspaper clippings and inserts found in the diary.
The organization of the William Benton Papers has followed wherever possible the original divisions made by Benton's staff. The material has accordingly been arranged in seven series.
Series I: General Files comprises the greater part of the collection and contains letters to and from Benton, together with supporting documentation such as reports, memoranda, articles, etc. It is divided into six subseries.
Subseries 1 documents the Benton family from the mid-nineteenth century to 1973. Of special interest are the diaries and letters of William A. and Loanza Goulding Benton, William Benton's grandparents who were missionaries in Lebanon from the 1840s through 1870s. Papers and memorabilia of his mother, Elma Hixson Benton, are preserved together with an extensive mother and son correspondence providing valuable information on Benton's childhood and youth. Letters to, from, and about Benton's immediate family - aunts and uncles, cousins, his wife Helen Hemingway and children Charles, Louise, Helen and John - form an extensive part of subsequent files. Here, too, is correspondence pertaining to Shattuck School, Benton's secondary school; those relating to the places of his higher education, Carleton and Yale, are located in the general correspondence section.
Papers relating to Benton's houses and travels, classmates and neighbors, social events and holidays, comprise the second major part of the Personal Life section. Included here is correspondence only with those persons whose relationship to Benton was entirely social, not connected with his business, educational, or political activities.
Benton's lifelong love for the arts produced a large body of correspondence which has been placed in this subseries. A long friendship with and patronage of Reginald Marsh is recorded here; so, too, are Benton's friendships with Carl Sandburg, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Richard Rodgers.
The personal correspondence closes with files relating to Benton's travels throughout the world, itemizing the planning, finances, itineraries, equipment, and companions of each expedition. Much of the material gathered here has an importance beyond that of Benton's private life. Several trips, notably those to Russia and Latin America, and the long-sought but never-realized trip to China, were largely or wholly fact-finding missions, and the information gathered was used as the basis for subsequent articles, speeches and policy statements.
Subseries 2: General Correspondence, is by far the largest subseries of the William Benton Papers. It is organized alphabetically by subject within the four chronological periods 1930-1940, 1941-1947, 1948-1957, 1958-1973. The bulk of the material and number of correspondents make generalization difficult, but a few comments may illuminate the nature and possible uses of this material.
"General correspondence" denotes material which Benton's staff did not include in topical files such as State Department, Senate, etc. This does not imply that letters so classified are unconcerned with specific areas of Benton's career. In some cases individual letters were not put into the topical files because the correspondence of which they form part is concerned with a range of subjects; in other cases, because topical files had not yet been created. For example, Box 69 holds eight folders of Benton's correspondence with Chester Bowles. The letters relate variously to the advertising business, national politics, World War II, business and finance, and purely personal matters. Similarly, the Paul Hoffman correspondence in Box 73, though touching on the Committee for Economic Development, also addresses a multitude of quite different subjects and therefore, in the judgment of Benton's staff, was inappropriate for inclusion in the CED files.
The net result is that neither the general correspondence files nor the topical files should be used independently. Much material on the arts, politics, foreign affairs, and the University of Chicago was originally placed in general rather than topical files, and it was deemed best to respect Benton's original ordering. The significant figures of Benton's life - Bowles, Hoffman, Adlai Stevenson, Robert Hutchins, Beardsley Ruml, Anna Rosenberg, Galen van Meter - appear in several places in the general files. The researcher is advised to identify key figures and organizations in the topical files and in Sidney Hyman's biography, The Lives of William Benton (Chicago, University of Chicago Press, 1969), and use these to locate further material in the general correspondence.
While, then, not sharply focused, this section is one of the richest of the William Benton Papers. There is extensive correspondence on national affairs and the media with Henry and Clare Boothe Luce, Harold Lasswell, Norman Cousins, members of the Sulzberger and LaFollette families, and DeWitt Wallace. Benton's study of governmental regulation of the economy is illustrated in correspondence with Cyrus Eaton, Bruce Gould, and John Kenneth Galbraith. International relations are the primary subject of letters to and from Geoffrey Crowther, David Hardman, and Harlan Cleveland. Files relating to many organizations (such as the ACLU, NAACP, and Council on Foreign Relations) and institutions (Columbia University and Connecticut College) are located in this section. Letters to Laird K. Bell, Edward Levi, Robert Hutchins, William McCormick Blair, and Gaylord Donnelley attest to Benton's ongoing ties to the University of Chicago. The Leigh Dannenberg correspondence holds a wealth of information on Connecticut politics. The CED story is told in the Hoffman, Clarence Francis, Marion Folson, and Jay Hormel files. Most of the key figures in Benton's other major commitments-UNESCO, State Department, Britannica, higher education, politics-are represented in the general correspondence. Finally, this section preserves a large body of letters and memoranda on Benton's life, career, and accomplishments filed under names of Benton staff members: John Howe, Anne Cronin, Kay Hart, Catherine Flynn, Bertha Tallman.
Subseries 3 documents several phases in Benton's wide-ranging business career. The first group of files covers the years 1935-1945, after Benton's departure from Benton and Bowles when he was looking for new business ventures. Many were in publishing, most notably the unsuccessful PM newspaper produced by Ralph Ingersoll. Benton was also a major investor in his classmate William Joyce's Pasadena Slipper Company (later Joyce Shoes), and in Dehydration, Inc. (later Birdseye). Much later, after he had left the Senate and had put his major business interests (Encyclopaedia Britannica and Muzak) on a firm footing, Benton became interested in buying a Connecticut newspaper. His attempts to acquire the Hartford Times and Hartford Courant are also detailed here.
Benton was active partner of the agency of Benton and Bowles from its foundation in 1929 until 1935, and a second group of papers here date from that era. There is full documentation not only of the original terms of incorporation, but also of reorganizations after Benton's departure; many of the original ad campaigns-General Foods, General Motors, Alka-Gum, Safeway-are preserved, from initial ideas through market research to final product. Benton continued to monitor the agency after 1935, and there is scattered material on its later history.
After his resignation from Benton and Bowles, Benton's next major business venture was Muzak, which he purchased in 1939. Most of the Muzak correspondence comes from the first six years of Benton's ownership, when he was aggressively restructuring, strengthening, and expanding the company. Until the sale of the company in 1958, he continued to receive reports on Muzak and to correspond with top officers such as John Andrus, Charles Cowley, and Ethel MacLean (Houghton).
The final section of subseries 3 is of particular interest for the history of Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. during an extraordinary period of growth and diversification, as Benton guided Britannica into myriad projects, including yearbooks, foreign language editions, and purchase of Compton's, Merriam, and Praeger. Day-to-day operations of Encyclopaedia Britannica are not covered, but there is ample material on Benton's projects for expansion. Benton's acquisition of Encyclopaedia Britannica common stock and the ERPI film company are well documented; so, too, are his close associations with officers in the British subsidiary, especially Hector McNeil, Stanley Morison, and A. E. and E. T. Dolphin. There is a large body of correspondence with editors and managers: Clyde Arnspiger, Miller McClintock, Harry Grubbs, Lou Shoenwald, John Armitage, Walter Yust, Harry Houghton, Paul Seaman, Foster Wygant, and Robert Preble. Protracted research and negotiations for the unconsummated purchase of the Curtis Publishing Company are detailed in Boxes 239-240. Benton's advocacy of English as a world language through the Britannica Institute is documented, as is his promotion of the Great Books series.
Subseries 4 collects materials on aspects of Benton's public life. After 1958 Benton and his staff began to assemble files covering possible commitments, memoranda on future positions, courses of action, and consultants' reports on specific projects. The main subjects addressed were business and economics, communications, education, and politics and government. This section is, then, an idea file, containing the preliminary stages of what were in many cases to become the major commitments of Benton's later career. As such, these papers should be consulted along with the topical files, in particular those of the Benton Foundation through which many of the projects outlined here were realized.
Subseries 4 also documents Benton's involvement with the America First Committee. He was closely associated with such key Committee members as Robert Bliss, G. A. Borgese, General Robert Wood, and Robert Hutchins, and he was kept closely informed of Committee activities. This attempt to keep the U.S. out of war collapsed with the December 1941 bombing of Pearl Harbor, but the Committee was significant in stimulating Benton's interest in politics and in bringing him into contact with several figures - notably the LaFollettes - who were important to his later career in public life.
Established by business and academic leaders to plan for the peacetime economy, the Committee for Economic Development was a natural field for Benton's expertise in business, higher education and management, and became his most important wartime activity. His role in drafting by-laws, recruiting staff, and writing "The Economics of a Free Society" are described here. Benton's vice-chairmanship of the CED and of its Research Division put him in close touch with government and business leaders who were to be his colleagues in public service and propelled him into the highest levels of American political life. Benton served until his death as a trustee of the CED, and later CED reports and material on trustees' meetings are preserved in Subseries 4.
Subseries 4 also documents Benton's political career. Included are materials on his activities in Connecticut Democratic politics, dating from his 1949 appointment to the U. S. Senate. His swift establishment and consolidation of ties to state politicians, ethnic groups, party officers, union officials, and civic leaders is thoroughly documented in correspondence with Anthony Arpaia, John Bailey, Robert Claffey, Mike Cieplinski, Leigh Dannenberg, John Dempsey, Thomas Dodd, Richard Lee, Abraham Ribicoff, and others. The preservation of incoming and outgoing mail, and of strategy memos, publicity, statements, advertisements, reports, and documentation regarding the Democratic Party and state elections make this a rich repository for Connecticut politics in the period 1949-1973. During these years Benton was, if anything, even more involved with national politics. Before his Senatorial term he had worked closely with many statesmen and politicians; afterward, it could fairly be said that he was well acquainted with-and corresponded voluminously with-most important Democrats and many leading Republicans. His attempt to win Dwight Eisenhower over to the Democratic Party is a fascinating chapter in American political life. The correspondence with close friends and political allies such as Paul Douglas, Adlai Stevenson, and Hubert Humphrey is particularly complete, and offers unusual insight into Democratic issues, policies, proposals, reforms, and personalities.
Another group of documents political campaigns, not only in Connecticut state politics but also Benton's own political positions and analyses in the 1950-1962 period. Included are his assessments of state and national politics, along with accounts of his pioneering campaign techniques, political polls, lists of supporters and contributors, and financial data. In addition to material pertaining to Benton's 1950 and 1952 Senatorial campaigns and subsequent efforts to win party nomination, there are two boxes of correspondence on the 1968 presidential campaign, particularly useful in regard to Hubert Humphrey's candidacy and Benton's Platform Committee experiences at the Democratic convention.
Material in subseries 4 related to the U.S. Senate provides the best documentation of Benton's career from 1949 to 1952. Besides copious correspondence with other Senators concerning legislation and national issues, there are letters and position papers which testify to Benton's efforts to shape national policy. Particularly revealing are John Howe's memos and reports, the "issues and legislation" section, and six boxes of memoranda. Here can be seen not only the evolution of Benton's thought on current issues, but also the process by which he shaped rough ideas into public statements. Although Benton's tenure in the Senate was not long, it was active; recorded here is his work on behalf of the Voice of America and world freedom of the press, service on the Small Business Subcommittee, work on the amendment to the Mutual Security Act, and promotion of the interests of Connecticut residents and businesses.
Benton's pioneering stand against Joseph McCarthy grew out of the latter's violent and unwarranted attacks on State Department personnel and programs. In calling first for McCarthy's resignation and then for his expulsion from the Senate, Benton stood almost alone in the Senate throughout most of 1951. McCarthy in turn launched not only a series of personal attacks but also a lawsuit (later dropped) against Benton. Benton's defense of his position and his orchestration of nationwide campaigns ("Joe Must Go," "I Believe") is fully documented in these papers. Here, too, are copies of depositions, testimony, newspaper clippings, letters, and reports on the early fight against McCarthy and McCarthyism. Although Benton left the Senate before McCarthy's fall, he did not abandon his battle against McCarthy.
Subseries 5: Foreign Affairs. Benton's first major involvement in foreign affairs came through his appointment as consultant to the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, Nelson Rockefeller. His entry into the highest levels of government, the experience stimulated a lifelong involvement in international relations and diplomacy. Filed here, as well, is correspondence between Benton and world leaders, most notably Harold Wilson. This material testifies not only to the breadth of Benton's associations - Golda Meir, Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Yuri Zhukov - but also to his ceaseless work for international understanding through diplomatic and personal channels.
Benton's 1945 appointment as Assistant Secretary of State came at a crucial and dynamic point in American foreign policy. Placed in charge of the State Department's Information Program, he was able to translate into action his conviction that American ideals and policies had to be promoted through a vigorous campaign of information and persuasion. His work in establishing the Voice of America, educational exchanges, and the Fulbright fellowship program is documented in the State Department files. Correspondence with diplomatic and government officials after his 1947 resignation is ample, as Benton continued to gather information for his own use and to exercise a behind-the-scenes voice in foreign policy.
Benton had been instrumental in founding UNESCO during his State Department years, and he continued to monitor its growth. His appointment as United States ambassador to UNESCO from 1963 to 1969 was a fitting tribute to his unique talents, combining as he did experience in foreign affairs and diplomacy with expertise in education and cultural issues.
The records of his six-year term are among the most complete in the William Benton Papers. Proposals, draft reports, and final papers of Executive Board meetings have been preserved, as well as extensive correspondence with Director-General Rene Maheu and with delegates. The education, issues, and projects files are an important record of the problems which Benton addressed and his proposals for UNESCO action. Other files record his efforts to make UNESCO an efficient, non-politicized body and his attempts to present U.S. policy. His trips to evaluate UNESCO field operations give a detailed picture of the realization of policy decisions. At the same time, Benton knew that American public opinion had to be mobilized in support of UNESCO if the organization were to function effectively and were to act in the American interest; his work for the National Commission is another fine example of his skill and energy in bringing foreign policy issues to the American people.
Subseries 6: Education and Philanthropy includes material on the University of Chicago and the Benton Foundation. The University-related material in the William Benton Papers begins after Benton's departure from the University administration, and consists largely of letters to other University trustees such as Laird K. Bell, Harold H. Swift and William McCormick Blair. The triangular relationship between Benton, the Encyclopaedia Britannica and the University is a frequent theme; so, too, are University finances and expansion projects in the post-Hutchins era. Additional material on the University of Chicago can be found in the Benton Foundation subseries.
After 1958 most of Benton's ongoing and new institutional commitments were maintained through the Benton Foundation rather than his personal office, making the detailed records in this subseries the most important source for Benton's later career. In its early years, in particular, the Foundation was the direct extension of Benton himself, the funding and supervising mechanism for his interests and projects. The range of topics here reflects the wide variety of Benton's interests; education, politics, foreign affairs, business and trade, and culture. Particularly strong are the files of those educational institutions which Benton served as a trustee; the Aspen Institute, Brandeis, Carleton, the Hampton Institute, the University of Bridgeport, the University of Chicago, and the University of Connecticut. Organizations such as the American Assembly, the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, and the Committee for a National Trade Policy reveal Benton's continued devotion to the reform of political institutions and trade laws. The Foundation provided support, too, for more partisan bodies such as the Democratic Advisory Committee. Benton's work for the United Nations, the Institute of International Education, and the U.S. Committee on the Atlantic Congress was carried on through the Foundation. His lifelong interest in and patronage of the arts can be seen in the Foundation's support for the American Shakespeare Festival, which Benton also served as a trustee.
Series II: SPEECH FILES
In this series are Benton's public statements; articles, speeches, books, reports, form letters, transcripts of radio and television appearances, preliminary research notes, drafts, and revisions.
The Speech Files hold some 2345 separate entries, each typically consisting of extensive documentation on Benton's public statements. Here are filed research notes, drafts, photos, and related correspondence as well as record copies of articles, books, reports, and broadcasting transcripts. A large part of the series is devoted to works by Benton's associates - such as a complete set of Adlai Stevenson's campaign speeches - and works supporting Benton's policy positions. A noteworthy feature is the series of detailed memoranda on and transcripts of interviews with business, political, and cultural leaders in Russia and Latin America. Found here, too, are public statements by close associates such as Robert Hutchins, Adlai Stevenson, and Paul Hoffman; source materials for Benton's own writing; background information on major interests; and documents about or referring to Benton. The files are arranged numerically, following the roughly chronological organization originally devised by Benton's staff; access is facilitated by an alphabetical index which was compiled from the exhaustive cross-indexing system used by Benton's office.
Series III: AUTOGRAPH CORRESPONDENCE WITH NOTABLE FIGURES
Maintained separately by Benton's staff, these are letters received from distinguished public figures, with politicians predominating.
Benton's staff designated items from selected dignitaries for preservation in separate files, and their organization has again been maintained. This correspondence is heavily political, featuring letters from such prominent men as Eisenhower, Truman, Nixon, Marshall, and John and Robert Kennedy. As with other sections of the William Benton Papers, however, researchers will find it advisable to explore other series in conjunction with this material.
Series IV: MEMORABILIA
This series contains photographs, gifts, awards, and mementos. Oversize items are shelved separately.
Series V: RECORDINGS
Series V includes record albums from the 1940s and 1950s. The recordings include speeches by Benton, music, productions from the University of Chicago Radio Office.
SERIES VI: SCRAPBOOKS
These 130 large bound volumes, combining Benton's public statements with photographs and papers relating to his family, chronicle William Benton's life and career up to 1962.
The scrapbooks were created under Benton's direction in 1962. Arranged according to the principal divisions of his life (Senate Years, McCarthy, etc.), the scrapbooks display copies of Benton's articles and speeches; original letters from great men of the day; photographs of Benton and associates; and a wide assortment of legal papers, memoranda, transcripts, family papers, newspaper clippings, etc. Some copies of speeches are annotated or edited by Benton; there are also marked article drafts. Many volumes of the scrapbooks also contain notes and explanations written in the margins by Benton; some marginalia of possible interest to researchers has been noted in the inventory section of this guide. The scrapbooks contain information related to nearly all aspects of Benton’s public career.
Series VII: ADDENDA
Addenda to the William Benton Papers includes memorabilia, biographical materials, photographs, reports, publications, correspondence, audiovisual materials, prints, artworks, and the text of several public statements. It contains materials related to many of the earlier series, some donated by Charles Benton, and should be consulted in addition to the other series by the researcher. The addenda is organized into six suberies:
Subseries 1: Personal
Subseries 2: Correspondence
Subseries 3: Speeches and Writings
Subseries 4: Career
Subseries 5: Audiovisual
Subseries 6: Oversize.
Subseries 1, Personal, contains biographical materials, memorials, and obituaries for William Benton.
Subseries 2, Correspondence, consists of letters, including from well-known personages.
Subseries 3, Speeches and Writings is made up of speeches and articles by William Benton; it includes some drafts and revisions.
Subseries 4, Career, contains materials related to much of Benton’s career, including the CED, Muzak, UNESCO, Encylopaedia Britannica, the Senate, and various Democratic National Conventions. There are copies of Benton’s notes and interviews from several of his overseas trips; these include his interview with Krushev.
Subseries 5, Audiovisual, is made up of photographs related to Benton’s family life and his career; many are of well-known individuals. Recordings, reels, and films related to Benton, politics, and Benton’s foreign projects are also represented; please consult with staff as access copies are generally not available.
Subseries 6, Oversize, contains materials related to most of the previous series and should be consulted along with them. It also contains original drawings of political cartoons by Sid Hix, Herb Block, and Reg Manning; many are inscribed to Benton.
Additional information about the content and arrangement of Series VII is found in the Inventory section of this guide.
The following is an alphabetical index to materials in the file of Benton's public statements. Each file has been assigned a number. This index should be used in conjunction with the inventory for boxes 449-583.
Abel, Elie, Our Troubled Press, 1971; #2281
Acheson, Dean, "A Career in Government," New York Times, 2/2/58; #139
Acheson, Present at the Creation, 1969; #2242
Acheson, Benton letter, Information Program and budget needs, 5/16/46; #690A
Acheson, Benton letter, revising Voice of America, 1/31/51; #536
Acheson, Benton speech, "Defense of Secretary of State Dean Acheson," 9/13/51; #448A
Acheson, Benton speech, "A Tribute to Dean Acheson," 9/14/51; #475
Acheson, testimony, "Marshall Plan of Ideas," 7/5/50; #882
Adiseshiah, Malcolm, tribute to the National Academy of Sciences Centennial; #1347
Adler, Mortimer, "Education; An Appraisal," Chicago Sunday Times, 1/19/58; #224
Adler, Great Ideas from Great Books, 1961, #1759
Adler, photo, Great Books of the Western World Presentation Dinner, 4/52, #1438
Advertising, article, Benton, "Madison Avenue Takes Undeserved Credit for Electing Politicians," Advertising Age, 8/19/57; #5
Advertising, article, Benton, "Why Admen Should Go into Politics," Printer's Ink, 9/22/55; #147
Advertising, article, "Dairymen's League Cooperative Association," ibid., 5/15/24; #2236
Advertising, article, Arthur Brashears, "Sequel to Success," digest from This Week Magazine, 10/15/39; #479
Advertising, article, Carl Spielvogel, "Advertising; Hard Sell No News to Benton," New York Times, 5/25/58; #975
Advertising, book, Vance Packard, The Hidden Persuaders, 1957; #1941
Advertising, book about Albert Lasker, John Gunther, Taken at the Flood, 1960; #1770
Advertising, certificate of tribute, Advertising Club of Washington; #1469
Advertising, editorial, "Goodby Benton-Bowles," 4/24/61; #1805
Advertising, Benton letter to editor, advertising and elections, Herald Tribune, 11/12/58; #1033
Advertising, photo, Industrial Advertisers' Convention, 5/43; #855B
Advertising, photo, Advertising and Sales Executive Club, 4/56; #1482
Advertising, presentation, American Tobacco Company; #894
Advertising, presentation, correspondence, 1925; #2316
Advertising, presentation, biscuit industry, undated; #991
Advertising, presentation, Certo (General Foods Corporation), 12/13/29; #669
Advertising, presentation, grocery business, 1931; #1225
Advertising, presentation, Lorillard Tobacco Company, 7/18/24; #756
Advertising, presentation, Maxwell House Coffee, 9/16/32; #1226
Advertising, report, radio broadcasting, 1931; #1857
Advertising, speech, "Ideas in World Politics," Advertising Federation, 6/15/48; #271
Advertising, speech, "How to Build a Radio Program," Association of National Advertisers, 5/7/35; #192
Advertising, speech, Benton & Bowles 35th anniversary dinner, 7/15/64; #1985
Advertising, speech, Benton & Bowles 40th anniversary dinner, 7/31/69; #2234
Advertising, speech, "Growing Interest in Advertising Displays," Window Display Convention; #1069
Advertising, speech, "Politics Versus Advertising Careers," 4/9/56; #74
Allen, Stan, appointment as Benton's administrative assistant, 7/23/51; #624
Allen, book review, New Republic, 7/62; #1767-#1767B
Allen, deposition, McCarthy lawsuit, 9/3/52; #1845
Allen, radio, 9/19/51; #1126
Allen, television, "Richard Nixon's Academy Award Performance," 10/13/52; #434
America First Committee, book, Wayne S. Cole, America First; The Battle Against Intervention, 1940-1941, 1953; #2003
America First Committee, Benton interview, 10/72; #2296
American Assembly, Benton elected trustee, 12/8/57; #30
American Assembly, photo, 10/58; #1110
American Committee for Liberation, photo, 4/28/56; #1460
American Committee for Liberation, radio, "190th Anniversary of the Encyclopaedia Britannica," 6/6/58; #1104
American Committee for Liberation, radio, "Aims of Education," number 2, 3/20/59; #1269
American Committee for Liberation, radio, "Free Parliaments in Free Societies," 4/56; #1100
American Forum of the Air, photo, "Do We Need a New Foreign Policy?," 7/8/50; #1578
American Forum of the Air, photo, "Our Foreign Policy," 3/8/47; #1527
American Forum of the Air, photo, "Our Foreign Policy; Benton-Taft Debate"; #1525
American Forum of the Air, photo, "What Have the MacArthur Hearings Proved?," 7/8/51; #1526
American Forum of the Air, photo, 10/26/52; #1542
American Forum of the Air, radio, "Do We Need a New Foreign Policy?," 7/8/50; #1064
American Forum of the Air, radio, "Do We Need Tighter Price-Wage Controls?," 3/9/52; #1781
American Forum of the Air, radio, "Foreign Policy; What's the Answer?," 1/21/57; #537
American Forum of the Air, radio, "Should West Point Be Abolished?," 8/26/51; #439
American Forum of the Air, radio, "What Have the MacArthur Hearings Proved?," 7/8/51; #1058
American Forum of the Air, radio, "What Should Our Tax Program Be After the War?," 11/14/44; #737
American Forum of the Air, television, "Which Party Has the Greatest Appeal to the Grass Roots?," 10/26/52; #416
American Political Science Association. See Congressional Distinguished Service Awards.
American Shakespeare Festival Theater, photo, 7/58; #1583
Anderson, Clinton, Outsider in the Senate, 1970; #2270
Anderson, Chicago speech, 5/13/50; #1910
Anderson, Eugenie, Benton tribute, Connecticut Federation of Democratic Women's Clubs, 10/52; #1393
Anderson, Jack, McCarthy; The Man, The Senator, The Ism, 1952; #1747
Anderson, USA; Second Class Power?, 1958; #1933
Arden, Dawne, "Modelling; Guide to Beginners," Ladies Home Journal, 8/29/55; #1280
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, Russian trips.
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, announcement, Encyclopaedia Britannica, gift of Contemporary Collection of American Paintings to American schools, 4/16/50; #893
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, announcement, purchase of Contemporary Collection of American Paintings, 4/7/48; #844
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, announcement, gift of books about Collection to U. S. missions abroad, 6/1/58; #476
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, announcement, University of Connecticut art museum named for Benton, 4/72; #2285
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, announcement, Metropolitan Museum of Art Fellow for Life, 11/10/59; #1363
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, article, Katherine Kuh, "The Fine Arts; In the American Grain," Saturday Review, 10/30/65; #2073
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, article, Elmo Roper, "A Non-Poll by a Famous Publisher," Art in America, 3/68; #2164A
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, catalog, William Benton's America, Osaka Art Fair Exhibit, 1970; #2245
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, editorial, "Ballet Oops," Theatre Arts, 3/56; #87A
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, Marsh, Reginald. See Reginald Marsh.
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, photo, New York Art Show Exhibit of Refugee Artists; #1439
Art. See also Reginald Marsh, questionnaire, Art in America; #2164
Askwith, Herbert, Pitt letter to editor endorsing Benton for Senator, 5/12/58; #492
Askwith, Atlantic Digest, "Enemies of European Recovery," 1/52; #457A
Askwith, Atomic Energy Act, "Exchange of Scientific Information with NATO and the Inaccuracy of Washington News Releases," 10/28/57; #46
Awards, Connecticut high school students, 1950-1952; #685
Awards, Connecticut high school students, photo, 5/21/50; #685A
Awards, Connecticut high school students, "Television; A Prescription," Syracuse University School of Journalism Award, 4/10/60; #1384
Bailey, John, Benton letter, Benton's ability to get votes, 4/20/61; #1814
Bailey, John, series of question-and-answer programs for Connecticut Senatorial candidates, 4/3/58; #302
Bailey, John, series of question-and-answer programs for Connecticut Senatorial candidates, 5/17/58; #395
Bailey, Connor resolution to pay tribute to Benton Foundation for contribution to scientific advancement, Yale Conference, 2/4/58; #152Q
Bailey, Benton statement, London trip, 7/25/56; #20
Battle, Lucius, "Profile of a Donor," Foreign Service Journal, 10/1964; #2033
Bean, Louis H. See Politics.
Benton, Charles, William Benton speech at Deerfield Academy commencement exercises, 6/49; #733
Benton, Elma Hixson, photo, late in life; #1415
Benton, Elma Hixson, 1906; #1402
Benton, Elma Hixson, 1934; #1507
Benton, Helen H., article, "Children Teach Parents to Never Stop Growing Up"; #1187
Benton, Helen H., "On Collecting by Three Discerning Alumnae," Connecticut College Alumnae News, Spring 1971; #2310
Benton, photo, 1958; #1420
Benton, photo, passport, 1960; #1674
Benton, photo, ca. 1952; #1324
Benton, photo, Russian trip, 12/55; #1523
Benton, photo, Russian trip, 12/55; #1510
Benton, photo, Italian trip, 1950; #1514
Benton, John, article, "Pope Gives Audience to Senator Benton and Son," Bridgeport Sunday Herald, 9/18/60; #1777
Benton, John, "John Benton's Travelogue; Audience with Pope John," ibid., 10/7/60; #1777
Benton, "Mediterranean Sail; A Wondrous Journey," ibid., 8/30/59; #1253A
Benton, photo, audience with Pope John XXIII; #1584
Benton, Mary, Alice Sanderson article, "Torch Carrier Who Cannot See," Pilgrim Home, 1948; #514
Benton, William, article, "Too Busy to Think," American Library Association Journal, 3/20/58; #281
Benton, William, "Pace of Change," Atomic Scientist Bulletin, 2/3-4/58; #152S
Benton, William, "Our National Purpose," Bridgeport Sunday Herald, 6/26/60; #1614A
Benton, William, "The FCC Comment," Columbia Journalism Review, Fall 1965; #2106
Benton, William, "Socialist Realism-Artists and Agitprop," Commonweal, 11/23/56; #36
Benton, William, "Freedom's Newest Weapon," Connecticut State CIO Yearbook, 1952; #1151
Benton, William, "What I See for 1948," ibid., 1/48; #712
Benton, William, "Giving a Name to a Memorable Dinner," Courier, 6/39; #866
Benton, William, "Secrecy and Security," Editor and Publisher Magazine, 9/26-10/3/53; #204
Benton, William, "Dare to Be Different," Family Weekly Magazine, 10/2/55; #141
Benton, William, "Protects the Rights of Individual Beliefs," Hartford Courant, 6/25/57; #22
Benton, William, "Why Hoover's Proposals Have Rough Sledding in Congress," ibid., 6/11/57; #158
Benton, William, "Time to Speak Up," Instructor, 6/57; #35
Benton, William, "Think Alone and Like It," ibid., 3/39; #846
Benton, William, "We Are Slowing Up-Declining Population," ibid., 8/38; #842
Benton, William, "Business in Britain," Life Magazine, 10/25/43; #213
Benton, William, "Middletown, Connecticut," Middletown Bulletin, 1958; #305
Benton, William, "Minnesota's Next Century," Minneapolis Tribune, 1954-1958; #270
Benton, William, "Are We to Live or Merely Survive?" Moderator, 1962; #1863
Benton, William, "Candor Seen as Basis for Better United Kingdom-United States Relations," ibid., 4/19/59; #1249
Benton, William, "Party Line from A to Z," ibid., 1/22/56; #26
Benton, William, "Be Glad You Were Fired; A Day I'll Never Forget," Printer's Ink, 9/20/57; #1
Benton, William, "Sale I Never Forgot," ibid., 3/3/50; #137
Benton, William, "Failure of Our Business Courses," Reader's Digest, 5/61; #1765B
Benton, William, "To Speed Up Your Reading," ibid., 9/38; #663A
Benton, William, "Young Man Be Your Own Boss," ibid., 9/44; #172
Benton, William, "Should We Buy More British Goods?," ibid., 8/1/49; #1356
Benton, William, "Failure of the Business Schools," Saturday Evening Post, 2/18/61; #1765
Benton, William, "How Shall We Trade with Britain?," ibid., 6/10/44; #637
Benton, William, unpublished, Saturday Review, 1956; #301
Benton, William, "Television with a Conscience," ibid., 8/25/51; #608
Benton, William, "Twelve Axioms with Which No One Will Agree," ibid., 1969; #2256
Benton, William, "Election of United Nations Delegates as Opposed to Appointive Procedures," unpublished, Scholastic Magazine, 4/58; #389
Benton, William, "To Speed Up Your Reading," Scientific Monthly, 1938; #663
Benton, William, "The Times in Review," New York Times, 1973; #2301
Benton, William, "Eyes of the Future," ibid., 8/20/38; #668
Benton, William, "Off to Opportunity," ibid., 9/3/38; #670
Benton, William, "They Had Their Worries Too," ibid., 6/11/38; #845
Benton, William, "You Can Learn How to Sleep," ibid., 1/14/39; #248
Benton, William, "Mutual Goal for the Americas," Wholesale Grocer News, 8/44; #769
Benton, William, "Back Court Doubles; Tennis," World Tennis Magazine, 11/55; #173
Benton, William, pending, Middletown Bulletin, 1958; #305
Benton, article about Benton, "Richest of the American Rich," Fortune, 1/68; #2186
Benton, article about Benton, Carl Bodoni, "Shoot the Works; Want to Make a Million Dollars? Take Bill Benton's Advice," Mark Trail Magazine, Winter 1951; #1086
Benton, award, Distinguished Public Service Award, Connecticut Bar Association, 1971; #2272
Benton, award, Kajima Peace Award, 10/24/69; #2247
Benton, biographical materials, 1949-1961; #142
Benton, biographical materials for Latin America, Ray Josephs, 1960; #142A
Benton, book about Benton, Max Gunther, The Very, Very Rich and How They Got That Way, 1972; #2294
Benton, book about Benton, Charles Sopwith, Successful Businessmen, 1963; #1335
Benton, Benton book review, Robert Townsend, "Up the Organization," Saturday Review, 4/70; #2250
Benton, chapter about Benton, Marie Beynon Ray, How Never To Be Tired, 1961; #1821
Benton, editorial, "Man Without a Country," Ladies Home Journal, 7/38; #641
Benton, editorial, "New Continents Ahead," 10/38; #634
Benton, interview, Columbia University Oral History, 1970; #2263
Benton, interview, News Front, 2/61; #1798
Benton, interview, Edward Rosenheim, "Opportunities in Broadcasting," 3/3/72; #2279
Benton, interview, Studs Terkel, Great Depression in America, 1969; #2232
Benton, interview, "Voice of America; History," Voice of America, 1/28/60; #1606
Benton, letter, to Ray Josephs, friendship, 3/27/58; #1068
Benton, letter, to Paul V. Kesten, rule of exclusiveness in networks, 12/6/45; #436
Benton, letter, John Taber to Benton, Hedgerow Community Theater operated by Jasper Deeter, 9/30/47; #369
Benton, letter, to editor, "Recoined Phrase; Treadmill to Oblivion," Hartford Courant, 12/30/71; #2315
Benton, letter, to editor, New England steel mill, New Haven Register, 9/7/51; #762
Benton, letter, to editor, action of Board of Education in deleting Huckleberry Finn from the approved list, New York Times and Bridgeport Sunday Herald, 9/18/57; #150
Benton, letter, to editor, better television, 6/23/63; #1331
Benton, letter, to editor, public attitudes and television, 11/11/59; #1279
Benton, letter, to editor, U. S. Information Agency report, unpublished, 11/3/60; #1748
Benton, letter, to George Waldo, Benton biography, 12/3/49; #142
Benton, letter, to Charles Wilson, New England steel mill, 7/10/51; #493
Benton, membership, American Committee for a United Europe, Board of Trustees, 7/2/57; #21
Benton, membership, chairman of Connecticut National Library Week, 4/58; #281
Benton, membership, Committee for a United Europe, 7/3/53; #21
Benton, membership, University of Connecticut trustee, 7/1/57; #1465
Benton, membership, Democratic Advisory Council, Committee on Foreign Policy, 9/26/57; #56
Benton, membership, Democratic National Committee, Democratic Party Sustaining Committee; #223
Benton, membership, United Nations Conference on Freedom of Information, 4/5/48; #450
Benton, membership, lists; #800
Benton, memo, visit with Harold Wilson, 9/63; #1349
Benton, memo, Bergen Evans, "Editor's Choice; You Couldn't Do Woise," Associated Press Managing Editors Association, 1963; #2302
Benton, notes, Ray Josephs on Benton in communications; #1366
Benton, photo, autographs; #1597
Benton, photo, autographs; 9/64; #2013
Benton, photo, 10/58; #1110
Benton, photo, 1952; #1490
Benton, photo, 1952; #1506
Benton, photo, 1950; #1210
Benton, photo, 5/20/48; #1436
Benton, photo, 11/56; #1492
Benton, photo, 7/52; #1464
Benton, photo, miscellaneous, infancy through 1915; #1402C
Benton, photo, 6/60; #1753
Benton, photo, 4/52; #1447
Benton, photo, 5/43; #855B
Benton, photo, 4/28/56; #1460
Benton, photo, Karsh portraits, 4/59; #1754-1758
Benton, photo, 6/6/60; #1763
Benton, photo, Marsh portrait, 1948; #1535
Benton, photo, 10/26/58; #1142
Benton, photo, 4/25/57; #1473
Benton, photo, newspaper mats; #1209
Benton, photo, 1958; #1456
Benton, photo, 2/59; #1440
Benton, photo, 4/58; #1520
Benton, photo, 5/58; #1429
Benton, photo, for passport, 1960; #1673
Benton, photo, #1599
Benton, photo, 3/72; #2277
Benton, photo, 4/15/70; #2258
Benton, photo, 1/60; #1597-1599
Benton, photo, 1/60; #1609
Benton, photo, 8/52; #1441
Benton, photo, 8/51; #519A
Benton, photo, 9/43; #1402E
Benton, photo, ca. 1952; #1445
Benton, photo, 12/55; #1163
Benton, photo, 11/57; #742
Benton, photo, 1957; #1512
Benton, photo, 2/3/58; #1562
Benton, photo, "Meet the Press," 8/24/52; #1485
Benton, photo, USS Connecticut, 1950; #1477
Benton, photo, Dover, England, 8/43; #1519
Benton, photo, Italian trip, 1950; #1450
Benton, photo, Italian trip, 1951; #1592
Benton, photo, Italian trip, 1952; #1508
Benton, photo, Eleanor Roosevelt luncheon, 10/57; #1462
Benton, photo, Greek Islands trip, 1954; #1582
Benton, photo, England trip, 1969; #2257
Benton, photo, U. S. Coast Guard Academy, 5/3/57; #1575
Benton, photo, Frank Lloyd Wright's 90th birthday, 1957; #1586
Benton, photo cartoon, TV board meeting and Benton, 1951; #1585
Benton, radio, 2/10-11/64; #1939
Benton, radio, "United Nations Conference on Freedom of Information," 5/5/48; #528D
Benton, radio, no text, May or June 1955; #189
Benton, radio, no text, 9/55; #188
Benton, radio, no text, 12/57; #286
Benton, radio, no text, 9/17/54; #198
Benton, radio, no text, 2/19/57; #129
Benton, radio, cultural exchange, 7/47; #1107
Benton, radio, tribute to George Shuster, 6/16/59; #1248
Benton, radio, Institute of Graphic Arts, fifty books of the year, 4/5/49; #825
Benton, radio, Western Europe's economic growth, 8/7/57; #41
Benton, release, Ray Josephs, "Statesman for Education," 1959; #1289
Benton, speech, "Tribute to William Fitzgerald," William Fitzgerald Apprentice School, 6/30/51; #384
Benton, speech, "What Every Young Businessman Should Know," Newspaper Advertising Executives Association, 10/13/41; #1302
Benton, speech, "Public Relations; Science of Selling Ideas," Public Relations Society, 11/30/49; #1106
Benton, speech, "Tribute to Anna Rosenberg," Eleanor Roosevelt Foundation Dinner, 4/16/64; #1949
Benton, speech, Class of 1921 Reunion, Yale University, 6/46; #833
Benton, speech, Class of 1921 Reunion, Yale University, 6/26/71; #2266
Benton, background summary, Catholics; #322
Benton, background summary, civil rights; #309
Benton, background summary, Connecticut industry; #323
Benton, background summary, economics; #323
Benton, background summary, education; #325
Benton, background summary, farmers; #319
Benton, background summary, government reorganization; #314
Benton, background summary, Greek people; #315
Benton, background summary, Hungarian people; #310
Benton, background summary, immigration; #316
Benton, background summary, industry; #323
Benton, background summary, international relations; #320
Benton, background summary, Italian people; #313
Benton, background summary, Jewish people; #311
Benton, background summary, labor; #326
Benton, background summary, medical profession; #321
Benton, background summary, miscellaneous national groups; #324
Benton, background summary, Negro people; #309
Benton, background summary, Polish people; #312
Benton, background summary, postal workers; #308
Benton, background summary, small business; #323
Benton, background summary, veterans; #307
Benton, background summary, women; #317
Benton, background summary, youth; #318
Benton, television, no text, 10/63; #100
Benton, television, no text, 7/28/62; #1304
Benton, television, no text, 7/64; #2010
Benton, television, no text, 6/61; #1806
Benton, television, interview, 8/21/66; #2116B
Benton, television, interview, 2/20-21/57; #3
Benton, television, interview, no text, 12/12/57; #154
Benton, television, interview, 1/31/58; #175
Benton, television, interview, 2/13/57; #108
Benton, television, "Soviet-American Meeting at Dartmouth," 11/15/60; #1793
Benton, television, "Editorial Page Conference," 1/19/64; #1935
Benton, television, "Our National Purpose," 6/26/60; #1614
Benton, television, "Are We Giving Bright Students a Fair Chance?," 12/29/57; #29
Benton, television, "Educated Man," 8/30/59; #1273
Benton, television, profile, 2/64; #1948
Benton, television, no text, 11/22/54; #193
Benton, television, no text, 9/28/54; #197
Benton, Benton tribute, 1/29/51; #541
Benton & Bowles. See Advertising.
Benton family, photo, Charles William Benton, 1900; #1402A
Benton family, photo, Christmas, 1957; #1449
Benton family, photo, early family pictures; #1402D
Benton family, photo, 30th reunion of Yale Class of 1921, 6/51; #1539
Benton family, photo, 35th reunion of Yale Class of 1921, 6/56; #1449
Benton family, photo, Montana homestead, ca. 1914; #1500
Benton family, photo, Montana homestead, ca. 1915; #1421
Benton family, photo, paternal and maternal grandparents; #1402B
Benton family, photo, Southport home, ca. 1953; #1212
Benton family, photo, Syrian homestead, 1840; #1421A
Benton family, photo, Syrian homestead, 1840; #1588
Benton family, photo, Thanksgiving at the Bentons, 11/58; #1822
Benton Foundation. See also Congressional Distinguished Service Awards.
Benton Foundation. See also Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, Foreign Service Association Award, 1957-1958; #1090
Benton genealogy, History of Tolland, 8/3/1861; #992
Bowles, Chester, announcement of availability as Senatorial candidate and Benton's statement, 3/7/58; #209
Bowles, article, "An American in Asia," Commonweal, 4/24/53; #259B
Bowles, article, "A Fresh Look at Free Asia," Foreign Affairs, 10/54; #259B
Bowles, article, "Brown Man's Burden Analyzed," New York Times, 9/5/54; #259B
Bowles, article, "Call for a New Immigration Policy," Survey, 11/51; #259B
Bowles, article, "Chester Bowles on Appointment of Ambassadors," Washington Post, 12/72; #2318
Bowles, A. H. Olmstead, "Connecticut Yankee; Benton vs. Bowles," Bridgeport Telegram, 7/10/58; #837
Bowles, Promises to Keep, 1971; #2271
Bowles, drafts of speeches prepared for Adlai Stevenson in 1956 political campaign; #555
Bowles, Benton letter to Bowles and Tom Dodd, request for debates, 4/24/58; #236
Bowles, photo, autographed; #1408
Bowles, photo, autographed; #1802
Bowles, speech, question-and-answer period with Benton and Tom Dodd, Fairfield County Federation of Women's Clubs, no text, 5/20/58; #396
Bowles, speech, with Benton and Dodd, "Republican Curtailment of Urban Renewal Funds," Fairfield County Federation of Women's Clubs, 5/19/58; #396
Bowles, speech, "America's First Order of Business," B'nai B'rith, 1/8/58; #259A
Bowles, speech, "America's Urgent Need for a New Foreign Economic Policy," Convention of the Tea Association, 9/21/54; #259A
Bowles, speech, "Does Brien McMahon's Vision Point the Way to Peace?," Human Rights Day luncheon, 1/30/58; #259A
Bowles, speech, "Not Enough Trust in the American People," Naugatuck Young Democrats, 1/6/58; #259A
Bowles, speech, "Soviet Challenge," Oberlin College, 6/10/57; #259A
Bowles, speech, "What Are We Americans Afraid Of?," St. Mary's. 1/15/58; #259A
Bowles, speech, "Labor Unions," Testimonial Dinner for Walter Reuther, 12/16/49; #259A
Bowles, speech, election victory, 11/50; #1867
Bowles, testimony, "Rent Control," Senate Banking and Currency Committee, 4/24/49; #259C
Brownlee, Jim, photo, autographed; #1407
Byrnes, James. See State Department.
Campaign 1950, appointment, Robert F. Claffey as Benton's Connecticut field representative, 2/10/50; #625
Campaign 1950, appointment, John J. Fitzpatrick as Benton's personal campaign advisor, 10/20/52; #594
Campaign 1950, Benton article, "Desegregation in Connecticut Armed Forces," New Haven Register, 1950; #891
Campaign 1950, campaign contribution from University of Chicago faculty and letters of support, 11/3/50; #1012
Campaign 1950, endorsements, miscellaneous; #480
Campaign 1950, letter, Benton to Walter George, state need for tax reduction, 6/13/50; #839
Campaign 1950, photos, 6/50; #1504
Campaign 1950, photos, 6/50; #1506
Campaign 1950, political release collection; #1011
Campaign 1950, promotional release, Gallup poll, 4/28/50; #1122
Campaign 1950, radio, 10/10/50; #953
Campaign 1950, radio, John McCormack supports Benton; #943
Campaign 1950, speech, "Introduction of Senator Benton to Democratic Party in Connecticut," Democratic State Central Committee, 10/30/49; #776
Campaign 1950, speech, "Politics," League of Women Voters, 10/23/50; #455
Campaign 1950, speech, election victory, 11/50; #1867
Campaign 1950, speech, "Progress Under the Democratic Party," Teamster's Union, 8/11/50; #1239
Campaign 1950, speech, Young Democrats State Convention, 5/27/50; #1087
Campaign 1950, speech, Abe Ribicoff, nomination of Benton for Senate, Democratic State Convention, 7/26/50; #441
Campaign 1950, speech, nomination acceptance, 7/29/50; #1987
Campaign 1950, statement, "Gift of Nichols Painting as Campaign Contribution," 11/4/50; #1238
Campaign 1950, statement, "Portable Movies as a Campaign Weapon," 10/16/50; #1189
Campaign 1950, statement, "Congratulations to the Convention", American Hungarian Federation Conference, 10/7/50; #1147
Campaign 1950, statement, "Czechoslovakia's Independence Day," Czechoslovakian people, 10/28/50; #462
Campaign 1950, summary, recount activities; #1232
Campaign 1950, television, Helen Benton, "Scrapbook of Senator Benton's Activities," 9/12/50; #182
Campaign 1950, Benton television, "Campaign 1950; Senator Benton, the Candidate," 10/50; #101
Campaign 1950, Benton television, 10/16/50; #911
Campaign 1950, Benton television, 10/23/50; #910
Campaign 1950, Benton television, 10/24/50; #973
Campaign 1950, testimonial, "Bill Benton Blitz," Newsweek, 6/5/50; #659
Campaign 1950, testimonial, "Buzz-Saw Bill Benton; Idea Man," Waterbury Republican, 6/25/50; #430
Campaign 1952, advertisement, Independent Committee versus Communism in Government, 11/2/52; #559
Campaign 1952, appointment, Anthony Bianca, State Coordinator for Ethnic Groups in Connecticut, 10/2/52; #597
Campaign 1952, appointment, Francis and Nance Brant as co-chairmen, 9/27/52; #827
Campaign 1952, appointment, Henry J. Gwiazda as state chairman of Polish-American Committee for the Re-Election of Benton, 10/4/52; #598
Campaign 1952, article, Edward B. Lockett, "What Makes a Good Senator," Coronet, 10/52; #212
Campaign 1952, endorsements; #480
Campaign 1952, letter, Alfred McCormack to Connecticut lawyers, 10/20/52; #1040
Campaign 1952, letter, Walter E. Cosgriff, government reorganization and campaign support, 7/3/52; #1034
Campaign 1952, letter, Fred Gutmann, Connecticut mine, mill, and smelter workers and Communist influences, 4/25/52; #1037
Campaign 1952, literature; #827A
Campaign 1952, photos; #1490
Campaign 1952, photos; #1533
Campaign 1952, photos; Benton addressing Connecticut delegation, 7/52; #1464
Campaign 1952, photos; #1423
Campaign 1952, photos; presidential campaign; #1499
Campaign 1952, plank, Democratic National Convention, American foreign policy, 7/19/52; #472
Campaign 1952, plank, Democratic National Convention, civil rights and anti-filibuster, 7/19/52; #795
Campaign 1952, plank, Democratic National Convention, second "Hoover Commission" on government reorganization, 7/19/52; #664
Campaign 1952, plank, Democratic National Convention, morality and politics, 7/19/52; #42C
Campaign 1952, plank, Democratic National Convention, small business, 7/19/52; #697
Campaign 1952, political release collection; #827
Campaign 1952, radio, Helen Benton, 10/31/52; #746
Campaign 1952, Benton radio, "Atomic Weapons No Substitute for Moral Power," 10/21/52; #1180
Campaign 1952, Benton radio, "Why I am a Democrat," 10/25/52; #415
Campaign 1952, Benton radio, "Social Security Program Threatened by Republican Policy," 10/29/52; #969
Campaign 1952, Benton radio, John McCormack in support of Benton, 10/31/52; #943
Campaign 1952, script, "Bill Benton; Fighting Senator," Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, 7/21/52; #1236
Campaign 1952, speech, Helen Benton, Salisbury; #1186
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Challenges in the Coming Elections," Amalgamated Clothing Workers, 5/2/52; #1231
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Communist Threat," Baltic people, 6/15/52; #219
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Domestic Economy," Cathedral Holy Name Society, 10/14/52; #242
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Taft-Hartley Act; A Critique," CIO banquet, 10/9/52; #1188
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Senator Benton's Record in the Senate," CIO Convention, 1/13/52; #687
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Connecticut Federation of Labor, 9/4/52; #1183
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Democratic National Convention, "Anti-Filibuster (Cloture) Plank before the Democratic National Convention Committee," 7/19/52; #580
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Democratic National Convention, "Tribute to Brien McMahon," 7/25/52; #707
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Democratic National Convention, "Tribute to Paul Dever," 7/22/52; #419
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Democratic State Convention, acceptance of the Senatorial nomination, 6/14/52; #429
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Democratic State Convention, Hubert Humphrey keynote, 6/13/52; #442
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Democratic State Convention, Abe Ribicoff nomination of Benton for Senator, 6/13/52; #564
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Democratic State Convention, "Connecticut Democratic Candidates of 1952 Campaign," 9/6/52; #418
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Women Possess the Balance of Power," Democratic Women's Clubs of Connecticut, 5/13/52; #1144
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Communistic Influences in Connecticut Labor Unions," 17th Senatorial District, 5/32/52; #422
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Fairfield County Young Democrats, 5/27/52; #424
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Politics," Glastonbury Democrats, 6/2/52; #425
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Democratic Party Achievements," Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, 5/3/52; #560
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Opportunities Ahead," Litchfield High School commencement exercises, 6/20/52; #218
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Economic Issues of the 1952 Campaign," National Industrial Conference Board's 333rd Annual Meeting, 9/18/52; #417
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Politics," New Haven City Democratic Convention, 5/19/52; #590
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Achievements of the Democratic Party," New London County Democrats, 5/24/52; #423
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, "Campaign 1952; Economic Issues," Waterbury Rotary Club, 9/23/52; #1050
Campaign 1952, Benton speech, Benton tribute on 173rd anniversary of General Pulaski's death, 10/11/52; #654
Campaign 1952, Nelson H. Cruikshank speech, "Connecticut's Great Service to the Nation and the World," Connecticut Federation of Labor, 9/4/52; #1203
Campaign 1952, statement, support for Connecticut's option on three television channels, 10/30/52; #977
Campaign 1952, statement, "Social Security for Professional Persons," 10/20/52; #1192
Campaign 1952, statement, "McCarran Immigration Act and Bush's Evasion of It," 10/24/52; #155
Campaign 1952, statement, "How to Use Television in Politics," 9/10-24/52; #1234
Campaign 1952, statement, "Communism; Republican's Hot Air Method of Attack versus Democratic Party's Positive Steps," 10/17/52; #1023
Campaign 1952, statement, national fund-raising campaign for reelection of Benton, 10/17/52; #1191
Campaign 1952, statement, "Civil Rights; Republican Party Countenances Second Class Citizenship," Democratic rally, 10/16/52; #990
Campaign 1952, television, Helen Benton, 9/52; #1230
Campaign 1952, Benton television, "Benton versus Bush as Candidates," 10/20/52; #938
Campaign 1952, Benton television, "Benton's Qualifications," 10/24/52; #939
Campaign 1952, Benton television, "Achievements under the Democratic Party," 10/29/52; #936
Campaign 1952, Benton television, 10/31/52; #933
Campaign 1952, Benton television, Robert Claffey, "Richard Nixon's Academy Award Performance," 10/13/52; #434
Campaign 1952, testimonial, Cyril Coleman, 10/52; #937
Campaign 1954, introduction of John F. Kennedy, Democratic State Convention, 6/25/54; #199
Campaign 1954, speech, "Victory of the Election of Democratic Representatives in Congress," Democratic Victory Dinner, 12/2/54; #167
Campaign 1954, television, "Lyford for Congress Campaign," 10/6/54; #195
Campaign 1956, photo; #1448
Campaign 1956, photo, Democratic National Convention, 7/56; #1422
Campaign 1956, photo, 1956; #1498
Campaign 1956, photo, 1956; #1444
Campaign 1956, photo, Democratic State Central Committee, 6/56; #1530
Campaign 1956, photo, 7/1/56; #1478
Campaign 1956, plank, "Federal Employee Security Program," 8/7/56; #104B
Campaign 1956, plank, "Immigration," 8/7/56; #104C
Campaign 1956, radio, "Presidential Campaign," 4/18-19/56; #91
Campaign 1956, speech, Dodd's availability as candidate for Senatorial nomination, no text, 7/7/56; #64
Campaign 1956, speech, "Foreign Policy," Democratic Closed Circuit TV Dinner, 10/20/56; #62
Campaign 1956, testimony, "Immigration" (long version), 8/7/56; #104
Campaign 1956, testimony, "Immigration" (short version), 8/7/56; #104A
Campaign 1958, campaign literature, "Bill Benton Because," 5/27/58; #401
Campaign 1958, editorial, "Keep Your Eyes on J. F. Smith; Key Supporter of Tom Dodd," Bridgeport Sunday Herald, 7/6/58; #837C
Campaign 1958, editorial, "Lee for Governor in 1962," ibid., 7/6/58; #837D
Campaign 1958, editorial, Irwin Ross, "Battle of Connecticut," New York Post, 5/18/58; #558
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, Senatorial nomination at Democratic State Convention, 6/30/58; #848
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, to Charles and Marjorie Benton, Senatorial nomination at Democratic State Convention and post-Convention analysis, 6/30/58; #848
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, to Connecticut Democrats, availability as candidate, letter #1, 1/13/58; #107
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, to delegates to Democratic Convention, 5/5/58; #381
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, to Ribicoff, Ribicoff's statement of neutrality on Senatorial candidates, 1/31/58; #186
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, to Adlai Stevenson, Senatorial nomination, 6/58; #849
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, Bob Claffey to Connecticut Democrats, seven reasons why Benton would be a good candidate, 5/16/58; #393
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, Al Donahue and Ed Bergin to delegates to party convention, seven reasons why Benton would be a good Senatorial candidate, 6/25/58; #709
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, Ray Fitzpatrick to Benton and reply, "Benton Can Win," 1/15/58; #285A
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, Joe Kusaila to Connecticut press, Benton veto of postal workers' raise, 10/20/50; #460
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, John Lane and Ed Roddan to Connecticut Democrats, Benton's foreign relations testimony and attachments, 4/21/58; #372
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, John Lane and Ed Roddan to Connecticut Democrats, "Benton Can Win," #3, 3/24/58; #285
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, Nick Phelan to Connecticut town chairmen, support for Benton's candidacy, #2, 2/24/58; #247
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, William Pitt to Associated Press editors, endorsement of Benton as Senatorial candidate, 5/12/58; #492
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, William Proxmire to Benton, campaign strategy in 1956 Proxmire Senatorial election, 10/4/57; #1235
Campaign 1958, Benton letter to Ethel Beckwith, Chase Going Woodhouse to delegates to Party Convention, appeal to candidates on behalf of Benton's candidacy, 6/20/58; #651
Campaign 1958, radio, "Senatorial Nomination and Post-Convention Analysis," 7/1/58; #903
Campaign 1958, radio, "Democratic State Convention," 7/6/58; #803
Campaign 1958, radio, 10/10-11/58; #1041
Campaign 1958, radio, Senatorial nomination at Democratic State Convention and This Is the Challenge, 7/1/58; #802
Campaign 1958, speech, "Old Politics Is Replaced by New; Rise of Public Relations Techniques," Boston University School of Communications and Public Relations, no text, 11/18/58; #1215
Campaign 1958, speech, "Scholar and Public Policy," University of Connecticut Honors Day Convocation, 5/19/58; #391
Campaign 1958, speech, "Inadequacy of Southern Educational Facilities to Meet Selective Service Requirements and the Resultant Burden Placed on Connecticut," Connecticut labor leaders, 4/24/58; #373
Campaign 1958, speech, primary campaigning, Democratic Town Committee of Bristol, no text, 4/11/58; #375
Campaign 1958, speech, "Great Issues in the 1958 Campaign," Democratic Town Committee of Manchester, 4/15/58; #306
Campaign 1958, speech, "American Economy," Democratic Town Committee of New London, no text, 4/16/58; #95
Campaign 1958, speech, "Senator William Purtell's Record," Democratic Town Committee of Norwich, no text, 2/28/58; #16
Campaign 1958, speech, "Tax Reduction," Democratic Town Committee of Waterbury, no text, 4/22/58; #374
Campaign 1958, speech, "Missiles as an Issue," Democratic Women's Club of Westport, no text, 1/16/58; #117
Campaign 1958, speech, with Tom Dodd, "America's Economic Growth," Democratic Women's Club and Democratic Town Committee of East Hampton, no text, 5/14/58; #387
Campaign 1958, speech, "Nine-Point Attack on Unemployment," Exchange Club, 3/3/58; #244
Campaign 1958, speech, Eugene McCarthy testimonial dinner, 10/23/58; #1065
Campaign 1958, speech, "Employment," Litchfield County Democrats, 6/5/58; #518
Campaign 1958, speech, "Federal Support of Education," New Britain, no text, 6/17/58; #588
Campaign 1958, speech, "Education; Key Political Issue for 1958," Tolland County Democratic Association, no text, 5/8/58; #386
Campaign 1958, speech, "Teachers' Salaries," Tolland County Democrats, no text, 6/1/58; #491
Campaign 1958, speech, "Seven-Point Memo," West Haven Democratic Town Committee, no text, 4/28/58; #400
Campaign 1958, speech, "Tax Reduction," Windham County Democratic Delegates and Town Chairman, no text, 4/28/58; #377
Campaign 1958, speech, Wisconsin fund-raising dinner, 10/25/58; #752
Campaign 1958, speech, nomination acceptance speech, not used, 6/28/58; #708
Campaign 1958, speech, Al Donahue nomination of Benton for Senate, 6/28/58; #546
Campaign 1958, speech, question-and-answer period with Chester Bowles and Tom Dodd, Fairfield County Federation of Women's Clubs, no text, 5/20/58; #396
Campaign 1958, speech, with Bowles and Dodd, "Republican Curtailment of Urban Renewal Funds," Fairfield County Federation of Democratic Women's Clubs, 5/19/58; #396
Campaign 1958, speech, "Flood Control; Federal Responsibility," 7th Senatorial district, no text, 3/8/58; #253
Campaign 1958, speech, "Common Market for Latin America," 2nd Congressional district, 5/22/58; #397
Campaign 1958, speech, "Need for Federal Support of Schools," 32nd Senatorial district, 5/24/58; #399
Campaign 1958, statement, "Senatorial Campaign and Benton's Pledge to Carry Fight through to Convention Floor," 6/22/58; #643
Campaign 1958, statement, John H. Norton, in favor of accepting Benton's proposal for a compromise to avoid a bitter primary fight, 4/2/58; #297
Campaign 1958, television, 7/2/58; #811
Campaign 1958, television, "Current Administrative Policy," 1/13-14/58; #135
Campaign 1960, photo, Democratic National Committee; #2307
Campaign 1960, plank, Democratic National Committee, "Education," 7/8/60; #1751A
Campaign 1960, speech, Democratic National Committee; #2307
Campaign 1960, speech, seconding Congressman Frank Kowalski's nomination, Democratic State Convention, 6/18/60; #1760
Campaign 1960, testimony, Democratic National Committee, "Education," 7/60; #1752
Campaign 1960, testimony, Democratic National Committee, "Red China's Educational System," 7/8/60; #1751
Campaign 1962, speech, seconding Governor Dempsey's nomination, Democratic State Convention, no text, 7/14/62; #1310
Campaign 1964, plank, "Report of the Committee on Resolutions and Platforms," Democratic National Committee, 8/64; #2002
Campaign 1964, radio, Democratic National Committee, 8/24/64; #2009
Campaign 1968, speech, Democratic National Committee, 1968; #2304
Campaign 1968, speech, "Democratic National Convention," American Club of Paris, 9/12/68; #2207
Campaign 1968, speech, against resolution calling for withdrawal of troops from Vietnam, Democratic State Convention, 6/22/68; #2196
Careers in government, announcement, "Congressional Awards for Distinguished Service," 10/18/57; #163
Careers in government, "For Distinguished Service in Congress," New York Times, 7/24/55; #163
Careers in government, "For Distinguished Service in Congress," "Why Admen Should Go into Politics," Printers' Ink, 9/2/55; #147
Careers in government, Harold Stein report, "Foreign Service Act of 1946"; #1610
Careers in government, speech, "Politics versus Advertising Careers," Advertising and Sales Executive Club, no text, 4/9/56; #74
Careers in government, speech, "Rewards and Penalties of Public Service," University of Bridgeport, 1/15/52; #237
Careers in government, speech, "Cold War and the Liberal Arts," Brooklyn College, 6/5/60; #1603
Careers in government, speech, "Rewards and Penalties of Public Service," Claremont School of Theology, 12/13/60; #1780
Careers in government, speech, "Rewards and Penalties of Public Service," College of the City of New York, 2/9/52; #235
Careers in government, speech, "Rewards and Penalties of Public Service," Congressional Distinguished Service Awards luncheon, 9/11/59; #163A
Careers in government, speech, "Scholar and Public Policy," University of Connecticut Honors Day Convocation, 5/19/58; #391
Careers in government, speech, "Foreign Service as a Career," Foreign Service Association, 10/20/55; #140
Careers in government, speech, "Public and Private Relations of Foreign Service," Foreign Service Association, 10/6/49; #1093
Careers in government, speech, "Is Public Service for You?," Hartford College Mock Legislators, 2/19/52; #233
Careers in government, speech, "Public Service and the Liberal Arts," Hunter College, 6/16/59; #1233
Careers in government, speech, "What Price Public Service; Is It Worth It?," Institute of Practical Politics, 11/50; #1057
Careers in government, speech, "Cold War and the Liberal Arts," Knox College, 6/6/60; #1604
Careers in government, speech, "What Makes a Good Politician?," Yale Political Union, no text, 10/6/54; #196
Careers in government, speech, "Politics; Its Penalties and Rewards," Young Democrats of New Haven, no text, 2/26/58; #246
Carleton College, Merril E. Jarchow and Leal A. Headley book, Carleton College; The First Century, 1966; #2153
Catholics, "Soviet Lesson for Catholic Schools," Catholic Digest, 4/58; #55A
Catholics, Catholic World, unpublished article, 1961; #1794
Catholics, photo, National Catholic Education Association, 4/25/57; #1451
Catholics, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Education," Catholic War Veterans, 11/10/57; #50
Catholics, speech, "Tribute to Irish People," Irish American Home Society, 3/17/50; #116
Catholics, speech, "Challenge to Catholic Educators," National Catholic Education Association, 4/25/57; #55
Catholics, speech, "Principles of Christianity and Patriotism," Postal Workers' Communion Breakfast, 5/18/52; #228
Catholics, speech, Reverend Lawrence J. Shenan, "Education and the Modern Media of Communication," National Catholic Educational Association, 4/23/57; #49
Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, speech, "Responsibilities of the Mass Media," 1/22/63; #1318
Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, Newton Minow speech, "Television; Four New Dimensions," 1/22/62; #1318
Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, statement, "Benton Gives $25,000 for Study of Television and Press in Free Society," 11/2/59; #1285
Chase, Stuart, "Five Year Plan for Egg Heads," Progressive Magazine, 7/56; #183
Chase, Money to Grow On, 1964; #1995
Childs, Marquis, "Another Benton Plan," Washington Post, 9/12/50; #1026
Childs, Moderator, "Marshall Plan of Ideas," 7/23/50; #513
China, Benton article, "Education in Red China," Child and Family, 4/62; #1778A
China, Benton article, "Education in Red China," Saturday Review, 7/15/61; #1778
China, Benton letter to the editor, "Education in Red China," New York Times, unpublished, 9/20/60; #1179
China, Warren Preece manuscript, "Education in China," 1960; #1764
China, Warren Preece manuscript, "Education in China," updated, with 1961 article, 1961-1962; #1764A
China, pamphlet, "Education; Our Ultimate Weapon," 2/61; #1751B
China, photos, education; #1241
China, Benton testimony, "Red China's Educational System," Democratic National Convention, 7/8/60; #1751
CIO, speech, "Taft-Hartley Act; A Critique," 10/9/52; #1188
CIO, speech, "Morality in Government," 6/18/52; #729
CIO, speech, "Progress under the Democratic Party," 5/26/50; #790
CIO, speech, "Request for Labor's Guidance and Cooperation," 1/14/50; #681
CIO, speech, "Senator Benton's Record in Senate," 1/13/52; #687
CIO, statement, "Toward a Prosperous New England," 6/15/50; #1049
Civil rights, appointment to Hampton Institute Board of Trustees, 12/1/57; #277
Civil rights, footnote, Committee for Economic Development, Distressed Areas in a Growing Economy, 6/61; #1800
Civil rights, Benton letter to University of Connecticut, Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity's stand on discrimination, 9/28/50; #582
Civil rights, Benton letter and Truman reply, civil rights and F.E.P.C. for defense industry, 10/51; #98
Civil rights, plank, Democratic National Convention, F.E.P.C., 8/7/56; #104B
Civil rights, radio, "Civil Rights; F.E.P.C."; #899
Civil rights, radio, "Civil Rights," 5/3/50; #925
Civil rights, radio, "Civil Rights; F.E.P.C.," 5/9/50; #962
Civil rights, radio, "Cloture and Civil Rights," 10/10/51; #1128
Civil rights, radio, "Latin American Trip," 4/7/60; #1730
Civil rights, radio, "Civil Rights and the Party Platforms," 9/2/52; #581
Civil rights, radio, "Tribute to Walter White," 6/4/55; #176
Civil rights, speech, "Advocating the Fair Employment Practices Commission and Rule XXII," B'nai B'rith, 10/28/51; #764
Civil rights, speech, "Anti-Filibuster (Cloture) Plank before the Democratic National Convention Committee," Democratic National Convention, 7/19/52; #580
Civil rights, speech, "Full Equality of Educational Opportunity for Negro People," Hampton Institute, no text, 4/25/58; #304
Civil rights, speech, "McCarran Immigration Act and F.E.P.C.," Liberal Party Dinner, 6/11/52; #283
Civil rights, speech, "Cloture; Prior Issue on Civil Rights," National Leadership Council for Civil Rights, 2/17/52; #579
Civil rights, speech, "East and West; The Twain Must Meet," Service Bureau for Women's Organizations, 10/21/57; #51
Civil rights, speech, "One Hundred Years of Liberia's Independence," 9/20/46; #545
Civil rights, background summary; #309
Civil rights, television, 7/21/52; #692
Civil rights, television, "Civil Rights; Republican Party Countenances Second Class Citizenship," Democratic Party rally, 10/16/52; #990
Civil rights, television, "Democratic Platform Discussed," 8/23/64; #1891
Cogley, John, speech, "Religion," Center Club, 6/22/65; #2012
Committee for Economic Development, appointment to Executive Committee, 5/29/58; #402
Committee for Economic Development, Benton article, "Johnny Will March Home to a Job," Liberty, 7/24/43; #810
Committee for Economic Development, Benton article, "Economics of a Free Society," Fortune, 10/44; #171
Committee for Economic Development, Benton article, "Postwar Planning and Rugged Individualism," Future Magazine, 1/45; #744
Committee for Economic Development, "Opportunity; Dynamics of a Free Society," Industrial Marketing, 6/43; #855
Committee for Economic Development, editorial, "Opportunity for Pro and Con Discussions," Opportunities in World of Tomorrow, 1943; #33
Committee for Economic Development, editorial, "Opportunities in the World of Tomorrow," Freedom of Opportunity; Keystone of All the Freedoms, 1944; #433
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, An Adaptive Program for Agriculture, 1962; #1864
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Budget and Economic Growth, 4/59; #1256
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Cooperation for Progress in Latin America, 2/61; #1796
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Defense Against Inflation, 5/58; #1266
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Distressed Areas in a Growing Economy, 6/61; #1800
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, East-West Trade, 5/65; #2056
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Economic Development of Central America, 11/64; #1989
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Economic Literacy for Americans, 2/62; #1835
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Educating Tomorrow's Managers, 10/64; #2011
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Financing a Better Election System, 12/68; #2214
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Growth and Taxes, 2/61; #1792
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Guiding Metropolitan Growth, 8/60; #1619
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Improving Executive Management in the Federal Government, 1964; #1988
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Innovation in Education; New Directions for the American School, 7/68; #2198
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, International Trade, Foreign Investment, and Domestic Employment, 6/45; #755
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, International Trade Organization and Reconstruction of World Trade, 6/49; #1115
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Modernizing Local Government, 6/1966; #2131
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Monetary and Fiscal Policy for Greater Economic Stability, 12/48; #1245
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, The National Economy and the Vietnam War, 4/68; #2185
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Paying for Better Public Schools, 1/60; #1296
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Presidential Succession and Inability, 1/1965; #2031
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Problem of Changeover Unemployment, 8/45; #1244
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Raising Low Incomes Through Improved Education, 9/65; #2067
Committee for Economic Development, footnote, Union Powers and Union Functions; #1942
Committee for Economic Development, interview, "Reminiscences about CED's Early Days," 7/68; #2199
Committee for Economic Development, memo, Harold Lasswell, "American Policy Commission," 6/3/41; #2068
Committee for Economic Development, pamphlet, reprint of "Economics of a Free Society," 1964; #171
Committee for Economic Development, photo, visit to Strategic Air Command; #1521
Committee for Economic Development, photo, trustees' luncheon, 5/20/48; #1436, #818
Committee for Economic Development, photo, 25th anniversary celebration, 11/67; #2172A
Committee for Economic Development, photo, Washington luncheon, 5/12/49; #1446
Committee for Economic Development, photo, 11/56; #1492
Committee for Economic Development, photo, meeting, 9/43; #620
Committee for Economic Development, radio, "What Should Our Tax Program Be After the War?," 11/14/44; #737
Committee for Economic Development, radio, "Postwar Jobs; Responsibility of Business," 9/13/43; #843
Committee for Economic Development, radio, "Should Industry Attempt to Guarantee Labor a Minimum Wage?," 10/7/44; #736
Committee for Economic Development, radio, "Post War Jobs; Responsibility of Business," 11/15/43; #843
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Commerce and Industry Look Ahead," 5/43; #280
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Johnny, Get Your Job," 5/43; #1206
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Economic Planning in England," 11/8/43; #619
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Economics; America's Responsibility," 1/29/44; #595
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Economics of a Free Society," 10/14/44; #1306
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Liberal Education for Business," 10/2/44; #211
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Crowther is Right-We Hope," 1945; #763
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Business Begins to Look Ahead," 10/20/43; #257
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Opportunity; Dynamics of a Free Society," 5/7/43; #855
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Business Strikes a Trial Balance," 10/28/43; #1307
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Business Looks at War and Peace," 11/5/43; #602
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Future Aims of CED," 25th anniversary banquet, 11/16/67; #2172
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Information Program," 5/20/48; #622
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Tribute to Ralph Flanders," 1/17/47; #886
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Tribute to Paul Hoffman," ca. 1947-1948; #818
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Tribute to Jesse Jones," 5/20/48; #59
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Postwar Efforts by General Industry and Business," Producers' Council, Inc. and American Association of Architects, 5/26/43; #603
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Brass Tacks of Free Enterprise," Sales' Managers Club of Hartford, 10/9/43; #1005
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "How to Raise Real Wages," 6/19/50; #629
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Role of Commerce and Industry in Preventing a Postwar Depression," Temple University, 2/17/43; #895
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Platform for a Free Enterprise System," New York Town Hall, 1/15/45; #808
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Commerce and Industry Look Ahead," Virginia State Chamber of Commerce, 4/10/43; #799
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "CED in the Post War World; New Relationship Between Businessmen and Politicians and Implications of Russian Propaganda," 5/11/49; #1055
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Postwar Developments in Britain," 9/17/43; #620
Committee for Economic Development, speech, "Paul Hoffman; On His Retirement," 5/20/48; #723
Committee for Economic Development, A. R. Guinness speech, "Welcome to Eric Johnston and William Benton," British National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce, 8/11/43; #873
Committee for Economic Development, Senate testimony, "Strengthening Reciprocal Trade Agreements," 6/1/46; #710
Congress of Industrial Organizations. See CIO.
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, announcements, 1957-1959; #163B
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, announcements, 1961; #1817
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, article, "For Distinguished Service in Congress," New York Times, 7/24/55; #163
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, pamphlet; #163E
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, photo, 9/11/59; #163C
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, photo, 9/11/59; #163H
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, photo, 9/11/59; #163I
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, radio, "Educational and Subscription Television and Congressional Awards," 8/29/59; #1275
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, radio, "Kruschev Visit and Congressional Awards," 9/13/59; #1282
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, radio, "Rewards and Penalties of Public Service," 9/11/59; #163A
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, radio, Pendleton Herring, "Benton Foundation Award," 9/11/59; #163F
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, radio, Hugh L. Elsbree, "Political Scientist and the Congress," 9/11/59; #163G
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, speech, "An American Suggestion to British Business Men," American Chamber of Commerce, 7/26/48; #273
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, speech, "Can Britain Compete?," American Chamber of Commerce, 5/26/49; #552
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, speech, "Economic Stumbling Blocks; Britain and the United States," Civic and Commerce Association and Advertising Club, 2/17/44; #706
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, speech, "America's Economy," Kiwanis Club of Phoenix, 3/8/49; #1782
Congressional Distinguished Service Awards, television, 9/11/59; #163E
Council of Europe, meeting with British industrialists, 7/30/57; #19
Council of Europe, photo, 1951; #1509
Council of Europe, report, 11/51; #1228
Cousins, Norman, Present Tense; An American Editor's Odyssey, 1967; #2190
Cousins, "Scientific Rivalry; United States Versus U.S.S.R.," Open Mind Series, 11/3/57; #12
Coy, Wayne, speech, "Future Broadcasting in America," 11/5/51; #984
Crowther, Geoffrey, appointment to board of Britannica, 4/12/56; #47
Crowther, article, "Economic Controls Versus Cartels," Economist Magazine, 9/45; #1080
Crowther, speech, "Education; Contrast Between American and English Systems," 10/9/59; #1294
Cultural exchange. See Senate, State Department, UNESCO, etc.
De Madariaga, Salvador, Blowing Up of the Parthenon; #1799
Democratic. See Politics, Senate, etc.
Democratic Advisory Council, Seymour Harris, "Educational Policy for Democratic Party," 12/9/57; #184
Democratic Advisory Council, appointment of Benton to Foreign Policy Committee, 9/26/57; #56
Democratic Advisory Council, "Where We Are; The World of Today and How It Got That Way," pamphlet #1, 1958; #444
Democratic Advisory Council, "Education and Freedom's Future," pamphlet #3, 1/60; #1257
Democratic Advisory Council, "How to Pierce the Iron Curtain," unpublished pamphlet, drafts and correspondence, 1959-1960; #1227
Democratic Digest, "Our International Information Services," 11/46; #823
Democratic Digest, "Education and Freedom's Future," 1/60; #1257
Democratic Digest, "Soviet Challenge; Education," 3/6/56; #75
Democratic Digest, "Business and Its Political Mythology," 4/4/55; #39B
Dempsey, John. See University of Bridgeport.
Djilas, Milovan, "Storm in Eastern Europe," New Leader, 11/19/56; #272
Dodd, Tom, Benton's comments on Dodd's announcement of candidacy, 9/5/57; #15
Dodd, Benton speech, "Tom Dodd's Availability as Candidate for Senatorial Nomination," no text, 7/7/56; #64
Dodd, Benton speech, question-and-answer period with Benton and Bowles, Fairfield County Federation of Women's Clubs, no text, 5/20/58; #396
Dodd, Benton speech, with Benton and Bowles, "Republican Curtailment of Urban Renewal Funds," Fairfield County Federation of Women's Clubs, 5/19/58; #396
Donnelly, Raymond L., endorsement of Benton for Senator, undated; #382
Douglas, Paul, In the Fullness of Time, 1971; #2298
Douglas, radio, "Economy through Government Reorganization," 4/10/52; #881
Douglas, "Government Reorganization"; #928
Dulles, Allen, Russell Baker article, "The Other Mr. Dulles; Of the CIA," New York Times Magazine, 3/16/58; #266
Dulles, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Science and Technology," Yale Conference, 2/3-4/58; #152K
Dulles, television, "Democratic Platform Discussed," 8/23/64; #1891
Dulles, Benton's commentary on Penn Kimball memo analyzing Convention and Senatorial nomination, 6/58; #1169
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, 6/16/51; #731
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, photos, 6/16/51; #731A, #1477, #1483
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, Carleton, 6/61; #1808
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, Dartmouth, photo, 6/68; #2193
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, Knox College, photo, 6/6/60; #1763
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, Montana State College, 6/16/57; #96
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, Montana State College, photo, 6/10/57; #1540
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, Notre Dame, 6/68; #2189
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, University of Louisville, 6/48; #1493
Education, awarding of honorary LID from Bard College, University of Montana, 6/10/57; #1429
Education, Benton article, "Television; Trivia or Trivium? Is It a Choice?," Academy Magazine, 12/51; #388
Education, Benton article, "How Can Radio Educate?," Know, 10/41; #79
Education, Benton article, "Why Do United States Schools Fail to Create Scientists?," New York Post, 10/24/57; #288
Education, Benton article, "Biggest Reward; A Tribute to Education," New York Times, 5/21/38; #466
Education, Benton article, "United States Education and the Liberal Arts," Yale Political Union, Summer 1962; #1809
Education, Lester David, "Are You Fed Up with TV Trivia?," 4/60; #1380
Education, Barbara Kerr, "William Benton's Role in Education," 5/14/57; #1177
Education, Ethel Beckwith, "TV as a Teacher; Quotations of William Benton," Bridgeport Sunday Herald Magazine, 10/18/59; #1292
Education, book, The Teachers and the Taught in the U.S.S.R., 1966; #2080
Education, book, H. G. Rickover, Education and Freedom, 1960; #2088
Education, book, Edward M. Tuttle, Education by Will Versus Education by Order; #876
Education, book, Edward M. Tuttle, School Board Leadership in America; #1214
Education, Benton review of Arthur Trace, Jr., What Ivan Knows that Johnny Doesn't, 11/12/61; #1826
Education, Benton letter, to editor, foreign aid and federal support to education for training scientists, New York Times, 5/31/56; #675
Education, Benton letter, to editor, suggesting a council of educational advisors, New York Times Magazine, 3/30/62; #1862
Education, Benton letter, to Eisenhower, television quiz scandal and need for citizen's advisory commission, 11/18/59; #1299
Education, Benton letter, #2, 11/21/59; #1299A
Education, Benton letter, #3, 11/30/59; #1299B
Education, Benton letter, to Sigurd Larmon, television quiz scandal and the need for citizen's advisory committee, 12/1/59; #1299C
Education, Benton letter, to Glen Lloyd, appraisal of University of Chicago, 11/20/59; #1362
Education, Benton letter, to Charles Percy, television quiz scandal and the need for citizen's advisory committee, 12/2/59; #1299D
Education, Warren Preece manuscript, Education in China, 1960; #1764
Education, photo, Institute for International Education, 1969; #2303
Education, photo, Open University, 5/16/72; #2287
Education, radio, "Is Our Educational System Failing the Individual?," 2/6/58; #152U
Education, radio, 4/11/60; #1605
Education, radio, 4/5/61; #1394
Education, speech, "Education; Liberal Arts versus Business Schools," 2/15/61; #1765A
Education, speech, "Educational Radio Broadcasting," Commonwealth Edison, 3/14/38; #862
Education, speech, "Television; Subscriptional and Educational," Dinner Club, no text, 4/13/59; #1287
Education, speech, "Television; How Can the Public Interest Best Be Served?," Institute for Education by Radio and Television, 5/3/52; #501
Education, speech, "Television," Overseas Press Club, 2/13/64; #1937
Education, speech, "Radio Broadcasting; Educational and Otherwise," Parents' Association, 10/24/39; #865
Education, speech, "Tribute to William Carr," National Education Association, 6/19/67; #2154
Education, speech, "Private School in a Changing World," Taft School alumni, 12/12/41; #1301
Education, speech, "Education; Expansion of University of Connecticut," Tolland County Democratic Association Picnic, no text, 8/18/57; #54
Education, speech, "Improving Education in Our Schools," United Parents' Association, 1/13/62; #1815
Education, summary of efforts on behalf of education; #325
Education, television, shortage of educational facilities, 11/6/59; #1364
Education, testimonial, Institute for International Education, 4/15/70; #2252
Education, testimony, proposal for a citizens' board on broadcasting, Carnegie Commission on Educational Television, 4/15/66; #2114
Education, in Britain, "English Education through the Looking-Glass; A Comparative Journey into American High Schools," report financed by Benton Foundation, 4/30/58; #414
Eisenhower, Dwight D., letters to Benton, television quiz scandals and need for Citizen's Advisory Committee, 11/59; #1299-1299B
Eisenhower, letter to Nickolai Bulganin, atomic weapons, summit meeting, and strengthening the U. N., 2/18/58; #255
Eisenhower, photo, testifying in favor of Smith-Mundt bill, 5/20/47; #1488
Eisenhower, statement, two speeches, "Science and Security" and "Future Security," 11/16/57; #187
Eisenhower, Benton testimonial, Information Program, 6/6/47; #1202
Eisenhower, Exchange Fellowships, Inc., Benton's appointment to Board of Trustees, 11/17/52; #1184
Eisenhower, Exchange Fellowships, Board of Trustees pay tribute to President on his birthday, 10/14/53; #1470
Election laws, article, Ann Ferebee, "Political Campaigns," Commonweal, unpublished, ca. 1958; #1038
Election laws, guide book, Summary of Federal and State Laws Regulating the Nomination and Election of United States Senators, 1952; #1028
Election laws, guide book, Federal Corrupt Practices and Political Activities Laws; #1027
Election laws, Benton letter to Alexander Holmes, abolishing the vice presidency, Connecticut newspapers; #1927
Encyclopaedia Britannica, announcement, "William Benton Returns as Chairman of the Board," 10/9/47; #806
Encyclopaedia Britannica, announcement, "Hubert Humphrey Joins EB Board of Directors," 1/9/69; #2217
Encyclopaedia Britannica, announcement, "Purchase of Merriam Webster Co.," 9/11/64; #2008
Encyclopaedia Britannica, announcement, "Purchase of the Praeger Publishers," 4/22/66; #2118
Encyclopaedia Britannica, announcement, "William Benton Announces Gifts of EB Collection of American Paintings to American Schools," 4/16/50; #893
Encyclopaedia Britannica, announcement, "Encyclopaedia Britannica Collection of Art to Be Shown in Sacramento," 3/1/48; #1179
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Robert Alden, "Benton Sees Vast Publishing Gains," New York Times, 1/14/60; #1392
Encyclopaedia Britannica, John Benton, "First Sales Experience," EB News, 9/1/59; #1246
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "In Memoriam; Adlai E. Stevenson," Book of the Year, 1966; #2110
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1966; #2110
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1967; #2138
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1968; #2167
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1969; #2213
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1970; #2244
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1971; #2260
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1972; #2290
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1973; #2313
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "The Teachers and the Taught in the U.S.S.R.," ibid., 1965; #2000
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Voice of the Kremlin," ibid., 1956; #31
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Voice of Latin America," ibid., 1961; #1740
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," Compton's, 1971; #2261
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1972; #2311
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1973; #2289
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Russian Trip," EB News, 1/56; #105
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Reginald Marsh," Know, Summer 1967; #113A
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Meet John Y. Brown II," ibid., 1972-1973; #2293
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," EB Roundtable, 1/73; #2308
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," ibid., 1972; #2309
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Shaping Our Lives Through Science and Technology," ibid., 1972; #2280
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Thank God for Salesmen," Salesman's Opportunity, 1968; #2184
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "1973; The Year of the Salesman," ibid., 2/73; #2320
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Mikoyan vs. Britannica," Saturday Review, 10/27/62; #1312
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Publisher's Message," Yearbook of Science and the Future, 10/69; #2229
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Shaping Our Lives Through Science and Technology," ibid., 1968; #2192
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Shaping Our Lives Through Science and Technology," ibid., 1970; #2255
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Shaping Our Lives Through Science and Technology," ibid., 1972; #2265
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William Benton, "Shaping Our Lives Through Science and Technology," ibid., 1973; #2288
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Clay Cole, "How the Britannica Sells One Out of Three," Sales Management, 6/3/60; #1615
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Harvey Einbinder, "Straight Look at the Encyclopaedia Britannica," Columbia University Forum, Winter 1960; #1398
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Harvey Einbinder, "The Britannica; An American Critique of the Encyclopedia Business," Encounter, 1961; #1398B
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Harvey Einbinder, letters to editor, Hutchins's refutation and Einbinder's response, Columbia University Forum, Spring 1960; #1398A
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Harvey Einbinder, "Our Imperfect Encyclopedias," Progressive, 3/61; #1398B
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Harvey Einbinder, The Myth of the Britannica, 1964; #1940
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Bruce Felknor, "William Benton; Looking Back," Know, Fall 1972/Winter 1973; #2293A
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Paul Hoffman and others, "World Without Want," ibid., 1962; #1859
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Arthur Bartlett, "Bill Benton; Idea Man on the Run," Coronet, 9/48; #149
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Ray Josephs, "The Great EB," Christian Science Monitor, 6/58; #292C
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Dorothea Kahn, "Encyclopaedia Britannica; A Long Time Newspaper," Christian Science Monitor, 7/10/43; #1010
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Allan Keller, "Filed But Never Forgotten," World Telegram and Sun, 2/10/62; #1855
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Michael Lazare, "The Marvelous Encyclopedia Business," Forbes, 2/15/65; #2048
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Arthur M. Louis, "The Friendly Britannica," The Nation, 3/1/65; #2051
Encyclopaedia Britannica, William A. Lydgate, "Britannica," Reader's Digest, 6/42; #1584
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Kent MacDougall, "Facts for Sale," Wall Street Journal, 2/19/68; #2182
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Jessie Matson, "Britannica in Eighteenth-Century America," Metropolitan Museum of Art Library Bulletin, 6/43; #898
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Richard A. Smith, "Ceiling on Selling," Fortune, 8/58; #368
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Carl Spielvogel, "Advertising; Hard Sell No News to Benton," ibid., 5/25/58; #975
Encyclopaedia Britannica, John Tebbel, "Two Hundred Years of Progress," Saturday Review, 2/10/68; #2183
Encyclopaedia Britannica, John H. Thompson, "University of Chicago Aide's Action Saves Britannica Bonanza," Chicago Tribune, 10/8/72; #2321
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Walter Yust, "That's a Fact-Or Is It?," Catholic Library World, 3/57; #258
Encyclopaedia Britannica, "Future Encyclopedias," 1964; #1986
Encyclopaedia Britannica, "Bill Benton's Knowledge Empire," Fortune, 1/68; #2186
Encyclopaedia Britannica, "Growth of EB," Fortune, 7/58; #368
Encyclopaedia Britannica, "This Was the 'Athens of America,'" New Haven Register, 3/20/60; #1608
Encyclopaedia Britannica, book, commemorating 200th anniversary, 1/69; #2211B
Encyclopaedia Britannica, book, Franklyn H. Hooper, Story of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1939; #1071
Encyclopaedia Britannica, book, Harcourt F. Kitchin, Moberly Bell and His Times, 1925; #1838
Encyclopaedia Britannica, book, Herman Kogan, The Great EB, 4/58; #292
Encyclopaedia Britannica, book, Joseph McCabe, Lies and Fallacies of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1947; #1928
Encyclopaedia Britannica, book, Board of Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1962; #1303
Encyclopaedia Britannica, book, Carl F. Stover, edited, The Technological Order, proceedings of EB Conference, 1963; #1334
Encyclopaedia Britannica, booklet for Board of Editors; #1303
Encyclopaedia Britannica, gift, Contemporary American Painting catalogs to U. S. missions abroad, 6/1/58; #476
Encyclopaedia Britannica, gift, 5 sets as Christmas presents to Soviet Presidium members, 12/25/55; #112
Encyclopaedia Britannica, gift, 5 sets to Israel Projects Program as Zionist Organization of America, 12/14/50; #507
Encyclopaedia Britannica, gift, presentation to German newspapers, 7/19/48; #1352
Encyclopaedia Britannica, gift, Rumanian Five Language Technical Lexicon, to reciprocate for 3 sets to Rumanian libraries, 8/26/60; #1771
Encyclopaedia Britannica, gift, 50 sets to news agencies of Germany, 7/19/48; #1353
Encyclopaedia Britannica, gift, 50 sets to German newspapers and DENA, 4/27/49; #791
Encyclopaedia Britannica, editorial revisions, 1/4/63; #1319
Encyclopaedia Britannica, John Benton letter to parents about EB sales experience, 8/27/62; #1246A
Encyclopaedia Britannica, memo, transfer, 7/59; #292B
Encyclopaedia Britannica, memo, General Robert E. Wood, "Monument for the World; Building of the Panama Canal," 11/63; #1333
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, Great Books presentation, 4/52; #1434
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, publication of The Great EB, 5/58; #1568
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, Benton tribute, 5/24/49; #1511
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, meeting of Board of Directors, 1957; #1529
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, Canadian Medal presentation, 10/68; #2216
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, First Edition replica, 10/68; #1497
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, Kennedy Memorial Library, 3/3/65; #2055
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, Adlai Stevenson at Geneva cocktail party, 7/8/65; #2089
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, 3/60; #1182A
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, reception by British Prime Minister and Guildhall dinner, 10/15/68; #2211A
Encyclopaedia Britannica, photo, EB sales convention, 5/18/70; #2253
Encyclopaedia Britannica, promotional literature, Benton, "Message to College Men," 1/59; #1182
Encyclopaedia Britannica, radio, 2/21/64; #1943
Encyclopaedia Britannica, radio, Benton's account of Russian trip, 7/22/62; #1305
Encyclopaedia Britannica, radio, discussion of television quiz shows, payola, Latin American trip, and EB, 1/23/60; #1601
Encyclopaedia Britannica, radio, 6/25-26/64; #1984
Encyclopaedia Britannica, radio, forthcoming Russian trip and EB, 10/11/55; #980
Encyclopaedia Britannica, radio, overseas broadcast, 190th anniversary of EB, 6/6/58; #1104
Encyclopaedia Britannica, radio, Benton's views on business, 12/61; #1795
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, "Academy for Adults," 10/9/62; #1906
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Compton Achievement Conference, 10/7/72; #2295
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, "Decade Ahead," 190th anniversary of publication of Encyclopaedia Britannica, 6/10/58; #511
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, dinner commemorating Benton's 25th anniversary as publisher, 2/1/68; #2179
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Preble's retirement, 9/30/59; #1277
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, "UNESCO; The Dream Comes of Age,"" 10/11/67; #2163
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, EB international sales division meeting, 6/26/67; #2158
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, two short speeches in Scotland at reception honoring Britannica's 200th anniversary, 5/15/68; #2197
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Encyclopaedia Britannica International Sales Conference, 10/13/68; #2212
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Benton's response to Prime Minister's toast, 10/15/68; #2211
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Harvard Business School Club, 6/1/65; #2065
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, introducing The Annals of America, 2/26/69; #2220
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Wisconsin sales convention, 5/18/70; #2253
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Magazine Writers Society, no text, 6/6/57; #97
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, presentation to President Johnson of books for 700 elementary schools, 12/14/67; #2174
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Temac meeting, not delivered, 10/4/62; #1905
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, Young Executives in Sales Club, outline, 2/9/61; #1791
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, "In Memoriam; Robert Redfield," 11/18/58; #1035
Encyclopaedia Britannica, speech, sales meeting for Encyclopaedia Britannica Canada, Ltd., 7/29/65; #2085
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Clifton Fadiman speech, conference of division managers, 2/3/65; #2050
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Robert Preble speech, "Ethics in Selling," 4/13/59; #485
Encyclopaedia Britannica, statement, physics film course, 2/16/57; #45
Encyclopaedia Britannica, statement, sales training film, 12/59; #1381
Encyclopaedia Britannica, statement, year-end statement, 12/59; #1382
Encyclopaedia Britannica, statement, Geoffrey Crowther appointed to board of EB, Ltd., 4/12/56; #47
Encyclopaedia Britannica, television, panel discussion of English language word usage, 6/22/59; #1213
Encyclopaedia Britannica, tribute, Benton and the Great Books, 3/60; #1224A
Encyclopaedia Britannica, tribute, "Tribute to William Benton and Encyclopaedia Britannica," Wisdom Magazine, 7/59; #1224
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, announcement, "Adlai Stevenson Accepts Chairmanship of Advisory Board," 4/10/57; #24
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Benton, "Sound Movies for Sound Education," University of Chicago Magazine, 11/43; #771
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Paul F. Healey, "They Make the Strangest Movies," Saturday Evening Post, 3/7/59; #1240
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Robert Hutchins, "Founding of Company," University of Chicago Alumni Bulletin, 10/44; #778
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Maurice Mitchell, "Communications," Britannica Book of the Year, 1958; #517
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, memo, Charles Benton, "Russian Trip," 9/64; #2042
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, memo, Milan Herzog, Russian trip, 9/64; #2043
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, photo, Adlai Stevenson accepts Advisory Board chairmanship, 4/57; #1537
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, script, "Bill Benton; Fighting Senator," 7/21/52; #1236
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, speech, "McCarthy's Lies in Regard to Communist Employees of Encyclopaedia Britannica Films," Waterbury Democrats, 10/29/52; #935
Encyclopedia history, Richard McKeon manuscript, "History of Encyclopedias and the Functions of Encyclopedia," 1950; #466
English language, "English Spoken Here, There, Everywhere," Think, 1/2/67; #2116C
English language, "King's English; Taken for a Ride," This Week Magazine, 6/25/38; #896
English language, Japan American Society, 10/69; #2241
Evans, Luther H., "Almost Half the World's Adults Can't Read," New York Times Magazine, 3/16/58; #268
Evans, Benton letter about Russian propaganda and distortions of history, 12/1/55; #131
Explorer's Club, autographed tribute to Benton from several members, 1/7/39; #1534
Marshall Field III: A Biography, Stephen Becker book, 5/64; #1907A
Field, Benton interview with Becker, 10/17/62; #1907
Fitzpatrick, Raymond J., appointed to staff for Benton Senatorial nomination, 1/2/58; #28
Fitzpatrick, letter and Benton reply, "Benton Can Win," 1/15/58; #285A
Fitzpatrick, memo, "Senatorial Nomination; Convention Analysis," 6/58; #1072
Fitzpatrick, memo, "Quick and Easy Reforms, or DeGaulle Showed the Way," drafts, 7/59; #1089
Flanders, Ralph E., Senator from Vermont, 1961; #2005
Flanders, letter to Arthur Watkins, McCarthy's refusal to answer charges in Hennings-Hayden-Hendrickson Report of January 1953, 8/30/54; #1007
Flying Clipper, Jack Zaiman, "Needle's Eye; Cheapest Vacation," Hartford Courant, 9/59; #1290
Flying Clipper, reunion party monologue, Adlai Stevenson, 10/24/59; #1293
Flying Clipper, reunion party monologue, Marietta Tree, 10/24/59; #1286
Flying Clipper, reunion party monologue, Suzette Zurcher, 10/24/59; #1295
Flying Clipper, photo, Venice cruise, 6/61; #1001
Flying Clipper, photo, "Visit to Leningrad," 8/21/60; #1766
Foreign policy, announcement of Benton's membership in Committee for a United Europe, 7/3/53; #21
Foreign policy, appointment to Democratic Advisory Committee on Foreign Policy, 9/26/57; #56
Foreign policy, Benton article, "Education and American Foreign Policy"; #2133
Foreign policy, Award for Distinguished Contribution to International Relations, New York Federation of Women's Clubs, 10/27/50; #454A
Foreign policy, debate, University of Minnesota, 10/22/56; #61
Foreign policy, debate, World Affairs Council, 10/15/56; #63
Foreign policy, Benton letter, to Acheson, budget needs of Information Program, 5/16/46; #690A
Foreign policy, Benton letter, and Warren Austin reply, Marshall Plan of Ideas, 10/50; #151H
Foreign policy, Benton letter, to editor, summit conference for Middle East and expanded Information Program, New York Times, 8/10/58; #759
Foreign policy, Benton letter, to editor, training scientists and foreign aid and federal support for education, ibid., 5/31/56; #675
Foreign policy, Benton letter, to Kenneth McKellar, budget needs for Voice of America, 9/2/50; #523
Foreign policy, Benton letter, to Kenneth McKellar, fund slash for Voice of America, 4/17/51; #1039
Foreign policy, Benton letter, to Robert McLean, press disputes and the State Department, 1/17/46; #1155
Foreign policy, Benton letter, to Sabath and members of Rules Committee, grain to India, 4/20/51; #467
Foreign policy, Benton letter, to Truman, grain to India, 8/18/50; #556
Foreign policy, memo, Russian trip, "Interview with Chairman Nikita Khrushchev," 5/28/64; #1960
Foreign policy, memo, European trip, "Political Analysis of Europe in 1935, 4/35; #1613
Foreign policy, pamphlet, "How to Pierce the Iron Curtain," unpublished, 1959/60; #1227
Foreign policy, panel discussion, "Foreign Service Education," Woodrow Wilson School of Public Affairs, no text, 11/2/56; #132
Foreign policy, report, Conference of Strasbourg, Debates Between the Congress of the United States and the Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe, 11/51; #1171
Foreign policy, speech, "Russian Education and the Role of Education in Foreign Policy," Agriculture Department, no text, 4/15/66; #2113
Foreign policy, speech, "Republicans and Foreign Policy," Glastonbury Democrats; #1911
Foreign policy, speech, "Goals We Seek," Conference of Commissions of Inter-American Development, 5/10/44; #591
Foreign policy, speech, "U. S. Immigration Laws and Economic Policy in Europe," Conference of Strasbourg, 11/51; #1171
Foreign policy, speech, "Making the World Safe for Diversity," George School graduation, 6/11/55; #166
Foreign policy, speech, "European Immigration," Kiwanis Club of Westport, no text, 8/7/57; #127
Free trade area, Benton meets with leaders of British industry about Common Market for Western Europe, no text, 7/8/57; #19
Free trade area, Benton meets with leaders of British industry about Common Market for Western Europe, 8/57; #19A
Freedom of Information, photo, United Nations Conference on Freedom of Information, 3/48; #1484
Freedom of Information, photo, United Nations Conference on Freedom of Information, 4/48; #821
Freedom of Information, photo, United Nations Conference on Freedom of Information, 1948; #1524
Freedom of Information, photo, report, confidential, Benton's impressions, 3/23-4/24/48; #528B
Freedom of Information, photo, report, U. S. delegates, 5/9/48; #528C
Freedom of Information, speech, "Geneva Conference Thus Far," 4/7/48; #450
Freedom of the press, Robert M. Hutchins, Free and Responsible Press, 4/47; #816
Freedom of the press, Peoples Speaking to Peoples. 1946; #816A
Freedom of the press, speech, Oveta C. Hobby, Alabama Press Association, 2/10/50; #407
Freedom of the press, tribute to Benton during National Newspaper Week, 10/5/50; #521
Gandhi, Mahatma, autographed photo, 1936; #1528
Gandhi, "Gandhi Jubilant Over Party's Gains," New York Times, 7/25/37; #126
George, Lloyd, autographed photo; #1419
Goldstein, Robert, 65th Birthday Tribute to William Benton, 4/1/65; #2058
Great Ideas, Mortimer Adler, with Benton preface, Great Ideas from Great Books, 1961; #1759
Great Ideas, Mortimer Alder, photos, publication and presentation dinner, 4/52; #1433-#1435, #1437-#1438, #1447, #1452, #1513, #1515-#1517, #1541
Great Ideas, Mortimer Alder, "Tribute to William Benton and the Great Books," Wisdom Magazine, 3/60; #1224A
Great Ideas, Benton article, "Great Ideas Today," 1964; #1994
Great Ideas, "There Are Only 102 Great Ideas," Look, 2/48; #1247
Great Ideas, "There Are Only 102 Great Ideas," Ray Josephs, "The Great EB," Christian Science Monitor, 6/58; #292C
Great Ideas, Herman Kogan, "Benton Gambles on the Britannica," University of Chicago Magazine, 1958; #292-292A
Great Ideas, photos, 5/58; #1568-#1570
Great Ideas, photos, Robert Hutchins, 1948; #1413
Great Ideas, Benton preface, Development of Political Theory and Government, 1959; #1804
Great Ideas, promotional literature; #292B
Great Ideas, Benton speech, Great Books division managers' conference, 2/11/64; #1938
Great Ideas, Benton speech, Great Books presentation dinner, 4/15/52; #238
Gross, Gerald, The Responsibility of the Press, 1966; #2151
Gunther, John, Inside South America, 1966; #2223
Gunther, Taken at the Flood, 1960; #1770
Gunther, preface to This Is the Challenge; #282A
Hampton Institute. See Civil rights.
Harris, Seymour, "Educational Policy for Democratic Party," Democratic Advisory Council, 12/19/57; #184
Harris, "Education on the Cuff"; #115
Herblock, photo cartoon, "That Odor Around Here Isn't Coming from West Point"; #1454A
Herblock, photo cartoon, "We Ain't Giving No Information to No Foreigners"; #1454
Herblock, speeches, "State of Our Free Press"; #1617
Herzberg, Donald G., "Wells Phillips Eagleton and Florence Reshine Eagleton Foundation," Douglass College, 4/19/56; #72
Hobby, Oveta Culp. See Marshall Plan of Ideas, freedom of the press.
Hoffman, Paul, all speeches and articles except those about Benton or Encyclopaedia Britannica; #120
Hoffman, with others, "World Without Want," Britannica Book of the Year, 1962; #1859
Hoffman, deposition in McCarthy-Benton lawsuit, 8/19/52; #1844
Hoffman, photo, autographed; #1404
Hoffman, photo, 5/48; #818
Hoffman, photo, with Hutchins at Ford Foundation, 3/51; #1459
Hoffman, photo, with Benton, 1951; wedding, 1962; #1453
Hoffman, press release, "Mr. Benton's Documentary Film, 'Italy Rebuilds,'" 1950; #404
Hoffman, radio, "Government and Business," 4/23/50; #719
Hoffman, radio, "Problems of Prosperity; Government and Business," 4/23/50; #1054
Hoffman, radio, "ECA," 5/17/50; #923
Hoffman, speech, retiring as chairman of Committee for Economic Development, 5/20/48; #120
Hoffman, speech, presentation of William Benton Medal for Distinguished Service, 4/13/72; #2278
Hoffman, speech, tribute dinner, 9/66; #2134
Hoffman, speech, "How to Bring about Economic Growth for all Nations," Kiwanis International Convention, 6/27/60; #120
Hoffman, speech, "Prospects for Progress Toward Peace," New School for Social Research, 1/14/58; #120
Hoffman, speech, tribute, 5/48; #818
House of Representatives, report, "National Defense Education Act," 1958; #1376
House of Representatives, testimony, Appropriations Committee, "Information Program; Budget Needs," 10/17/45; #680
House of Representatives, testimony, Appropriations Committee, "Information Program," 2/28/46; #549
House of Representatives, testimony, Foreign Affairs Committee, "Information Program," 10/16/45; #616
House of Representatives, testimony, Foreign Affairs Committee, "UNESCO; Functions, Responsibilities, Goals," 4/3/46; #1078
House of Representatives, testimony, Resolution #3342, "Smith-Mundt Act," 5/6/47; #1193
House of Representatives, testimony, Resolution #13247, "National Defense Education Act," 7/58; #1378
House of Representatives, testimony, Select Subcommittee on Education, "Establishing a National Institute of Education," 6/14/71; #2267
House of Representatives, testimony, Ways and Means Committee, "Implementation of the Florence and Beirut Agreements," 6/6/66; #2119
House of Representatives, testimonial to Benton and Information Program, 6/6/47; #1202
Howe, John, letter to recipients, undated; #282C
Howe, memo, "How Does War Affect the Round Table?," 12/15/41; #857
Howe, "Memorial Service," 10/12/67; #2166
Howe, "A Tribute," 6/9/38; #864A
Hoyt, Edwin P., The Golden Rot, 1964; #2053
Hoyt, Supersalesmen, 5/62; #1820
Hoyt, Benton letter, How to Make Money, 4/58; #589
Humphrey, Hubert, announcement, "Hubert Humphrey Joins the Encyclopaedia Britannica Board of Directors," 1/9/69; #2217
Humphrey, "Eight Hours with Kruschev," Life, 1/12/59; #1190
Humphrey, "Tribute to Hubert Humphrey," ADA Roosevelt Dinner Journal, 1/28/65; #2047
Humphrey, Russell Baker, "Humphrey; Thunder and Lightning," New York Times, 1/11/59; #1162
Humphrey, Rudy Williams, New York Post, 7/15/68-7/20/68; #2195A
Humphrey, Rudy Williams, Benton interview, 5/29/68; #2195
Humphrey, photos, 1969; #2228, #2257
Humphrey, radio, "Civil Rights; F.E.P.C.," 5/9/50; #962
Humphrey, radio, "Cloture and Civil Rights," 10/10/51; #1128
Humphrey, Benton speech, "Democratic National Convention in Chicago," American Club of Paris, 9/12/68; #2207
Humphrey, Humphrey speech, "Honorary Degree for Senator Humphrey," University of Bridgeport, 6/6/71; #2264
Humphrey, Humphrey speech, "Toward a Unified Policy in the Middle East," Conference on Middle East Development, 2/1/58; #249
Humphrey, Humphrey speech, keynote address, Democratic State Convention, Connecticut, 6/13/52; #442
Humphrey, Humphrey speech, "Humphrey Campaign Contribution," 5/9/60; #1612
Humphrey, Benton testimony, Chairman of Senate Labor and Management Subcommittee, "Civil Rights; In Behalf of Compulsory F.E.P.C. Legislation," 5/6/52; #1016
Hutchins, Robert, Benton article, "Boy Veteran," Ladies Home Journal. 9/38; #461
Hutchins, Hutchins, "Are Our Teachers Afraid to Teach?," Look, 3/9/54; #633D
Hutchins, Hutchins, "United States Education Worse Than Ever; Is Get ting into Cafeteria Stage," New Haven Register, 11/13/55; #633D
Hutchins, Hutchins, "A Liberal Calls for Aid to Church Schools," Saturday Evening Post, 6/8/63; #856
Hutchins, Hutchins, "Dissenting Opinion as a Creative Art," Saturday Review, 8/12/61; #633D
Hutchins, Hutchins, "How to Blunder into War with Russia," Western World, 3/59; #633D
Hutchins, Hutchins, "Autobiography of an Uneducated Man," 1943; #1321
Hutchins, Free and Responsible Press, 4/47; #816
Hutchins, Humanistic Education and Western Civilization, 1964; #1946
Hutchins, "Memorial to Walter Paepcke," 1960; #1062
Hutchins, photo, 1929; #1401
Hutchins, photo, 1948; #1413
Hutchins, photo, 4/52; #1435
Hutchins, photo, with Hoffman at Ford Foundation, 3/51; #1459
Hutchins, radio, "Atomic Force; Its Meaning for Mankind," 8/12/45; #1083
Hutchins, report, with Nelson Rockefeller, "Motion Pictures in the Field of Public Education," 9/37; #1208
Hutchins, Benton speech, Hutchins tribute dinner, 2/20/65; #2046
Hutchins, Benton speech, Hutchins tribute dinner, 12/5/62; #1908
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "State of the University, 1929-1949"; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Administrator Reconsidered," American College of Hospital Administrators, 9/19/55; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Freedom," American Jewish Congress, 1/31/56; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Observations on an Anniversary," Aspen Institute of Humanistic Studies, 7/69; #2233
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Education and a Free Society," University of Bridgeport, 11/6/63; #1920
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Higher Education and the National Defense," Chicago Association of Commerce, 1/28/41; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "New Realism," University of Chicago convocation, 6/15/45; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Science and Wisdom in the Atomic Age; Uses of Knowledge," University of Chicago, 12/45; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "V-E Day," University of Chicago, 5/8/45; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Morals, Religion, and Higher Education," 10/48; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, Great Books, 4/52; #815
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Is Democracy Possible?," Sidney Hillman Award acceptance, 1/21/59; #633A
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Foundations of World Order," Modern Forum, 11/17/47; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Fund for the Republic; A Defense," National Press Club, 1/26/55; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "America and the War," 1/23/41; #633B
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Good News of Damnation," Publicity Club of Chicago, 1/8/47; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Proposition Is Peace," 3/27/41; #633C
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Robert Redfield; In Memoriam," 11/18/58; #1035
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Freedom of the Press," Society of Newspaper Editors, 4/22/55; #633
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, "Politics," Young Democratic Club, 6/27/32; #633E
Hutchins, Hutchins speech, Robert Preble's retirement from Encyclopaedia Britannica, 9/30/59; #1277
Hyman, Sidney, The Lives of William Benton, 2/70; #1750
Hyman, William Benton's America, Osaka Fair Art Exhibit, 1970; #2245
Hyman, The Lives of William Benton, "Book Scene," 3/16/70; #1750A
Israel, Benton article, "Nation Must Advance Human Rights," Jewish Ledger, 3/30/50; #1076
Israel, award, Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (includes photo), 3/23/52; #1426
Israel, certificate of appreciation, Light of the World Dinner, 4/15/56; #1427
Israel, gift, 5 sets Encyclopaedia Britannica to Zionist Organization of America, 12/14/50; #507
Israel, Benton letter to editor, "Soviet Treatment of Jews," Christian Science Monitor, 4/15/58; #503
Israel, speech, "Joint Defense Appeal and Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith," American Jewish Committee, 6/19/52; #1497
Israel, speech, receiving the Human Relations Award of the American Jewish Committee, 10/9/68; #2194
Israel, speech, "Tribute to the Jewish People," American Jewish Committee and the Anti-Defamation League, 6/19/52; #1150
Israel, speech, "Economic Aid to Israel," Connecticut Histadrut Campaign, 9/23/51; #639
Israel, speech, "Why We Should Aid Israel," Temple Beth Israel, 4/16/51; #428
Israel, speech, "Israel Ten Years Later," Key Club of the Bridgeport Jewish Community Council, 5/9/58; #385
Israel, speech, receiving National Human Relations Award, National Conference of Christians and Jews, 4/28/69; #2224
Israel, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Economics and Education," American Jewish Congress, 1/22/56; #83
Israel, speech, "Advocating the Fair Employment Practices Commission and Rule XXII," B'nai B'rith, 10/28/51; #764
Israel, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Sports," B'nai B'rith, no text, 2/29/56; #77
Israel, speech, "U. S. A.; Wasteland or Wise-Land," Brandeis University, 10/22/62; #1861
Israel, speech, "The key to Freedom," 2nd Annual Hadassah Convention, 8/16/66; #2116
Israel, speech, "Wanderers of the World," Hebrew Immigration Aid Society, 3/23/52; #232
Israel, speech, tribute, to Jewish people on Hebrew New Year, 9/12/50; #496
Israel, speech, Jewish National Tree Fund for Reforestation of Israel, trees planted in honor of Benton; #1487
Israel, speech, Jewish National Tree Fund for Reforestation of Israel, 1952; #446
Israel, speech, Jewish National Tree Fund for Reforestation of Israel, 7/56; #1431
Israel, speech, "Infant Republic of Israel," American Committee for Israel's Tenth Anniversary, 3/3/58; #119
Israel, speech, National Committee for Labor Israel, Honor Scroll Presentation, 9/23/51; #1472
Israel, speech, Weizmann Institute, honorary degree conferred, 5/1970; #2259
Italy, articles, Connecticut newspapers cover Po Valley floods and plead for relief funds, 1950; #279
Italy, articles, "Conditions in Italy," il Progresso, 7/5/50; #520
Italy, honorary membership in musicians and printers union conferred by Senor Pastore, Italian Labor Society, 6/50; #1474
Italy, Benton letter to Anthony Arpaia, Soviet propaganda to discredit American aid to flood-damaged Italy, 1/13/52; #488
Italy, Count Carlo Sforza letter to Benton, Benton's legislative record and postwar Italy's welfare, 6/18/51; #652
Italy, photos, presentation of Boys Town Scroll of Honor to Benton, 11/1952; #1589
Italy, presentation, Italian Order of Solidarity, 5/20/54; #1496
Italy, presentation, Italian Order of Solidarity, photo, 5/20/54; #1518
Italy, press conference, Benton's visit to the 43rd Division and the need for revision of McCarran Immigration legislation, 11/29/51; #713
Italy, press conference, "Postwar Italy," 6/14/50; #532
Italy, documentary film script, "Italy Rebuilds," 9/15/50; #404A
Italy, speech, "Italy's Rebuilding," American Chamber of Commerce for Italy, 6/7/50; #534
Italy, speech, "Tribute to the Italian People," Italian Flood Relief Society, 1/31/52; #1059
Johnson, Lady Bird, A White House Diary, 1970; #2268
Johnson, Lyndon, "Visit to the LBJ Ranch," United Press International, 1/73; #2300B
Johnson, photo, inaugural ball, 1964; #2305
Johnson, speech, "Realities of the Modern World," United Jewish Appeal, 6/9/57; #128
Johnson, Nicholas, How to Talk Back to Your Television Set, 1970; #2248
Johnston, Eric, America Unlimited, 1944; #1315
Jones, Jesse, Bascom N. Timmons book, Jesse H. Jones; The Man and the Statesman, 1956; #2004
Jones, photo, autographed; #1414
Jones, photo, Houston Chamber of Commerce Dinner, 12/9/48; #1455
Jones, speech, "Tribute to Jesse Jones," Committee for Economic Development, 5/20/48; #59
Jones, speech, "Where Are We and Where Are We Going?," Houston Chamber of Commerce, 12/9/48; #548
Kempton, Murray, "Buckley's National Bore," National Review, 7/1/56; #971
Kennedy, John F., "Shame of the States," New York Times, 5/18/58; #1047
Kennedy, Benton interview for John F. Kennedy Library Oral History Project, 7/64; #1990
Kennedy, letter, Benton appointed U. S. member of Executive Board of UNESCO, 3/11/63; #1320
Kennedy, letter, Profiles of Courage, 2/18/56; #1912
Kennedy, memorial tribute, Compton house organ, 12/63; #1913
Kennedy, photos, 1963; #2225
Kennedy, photos, Kennedy Memorial Library check presentation, 3/3/65; #2055
Kennedy, photos, inauguration, 1960; #2306
Kennedy, photos, signing bill, 4/23/63; #1326
Kennedy, speech drafts for 1960 campaign prepared by Hyman and other Benton staff, probably unused; #1776
Kennedy, Benton speech, support for Kennedy's foreign aid program, Operation Support, 8/22/61; #1816
Kennedy, Benton speech, introduction at Connecticut Democratic Convention, 6/25/54; #199
Kennedy, television, "Courageous Senators," 11/24/57; #291
Keyserling, Leon, "Eggheads and Politics," New Republic, 10/27/58; #515
Keyserling, articles and drafts; #585
Kimball, Penn, appointed to Benton's Washington office executive secretary; #836
Kimball, Bobby Kennedy and the New Politics, 1968; #2239
Kimball, "Senatorial Nomination; Convention Analysis," Democratic State Convention, Benton's commentary, 6/58; #1169
Korea, Benton's proposal to President Truman to use portable movies to combat Soviet propaganda, 1950; #486
Korea, Benton letter and Warren Austin reply, Campaign of Truth for Korea, 10/13/50; #486A
Korea, radio, "What Have the MacArthur Hearings Proved?," 7/8/51; #1058
Korea, radio, "Connecticut Veterans at Walter Reed Hospital," 7/23/50; #1133
Korea, radio, 7/23/51; #1135
Korea, speech, "MacArthur's Dismissal," Chamber of Commerce of Middletown, 5/7/52; #1119
Korea, speech, VASA First District Convention, 9/30/50; #499
Korea, speech, "Korean War and Voice of America," Windham County Democratic Association, 7/19/50; #502
Korea, speech, "MacArthur and the United States Policy toward Korea," Young Democrats of Connecticut, 5/26/51; #788
Kovago, Joseph, manuscripts; #210
LaFollette, Phil, autographed photo, 1938; #1416
Lash, Joseph, Eleanor; The Years Alone, 1972; #2292
Lasswell, Harold, "Normative Impact of the Behavioral Sciences," Journal of Social, Political, and Legal Philosophy, 4/57; #478A
Lasswell, A Pre-View of Policy Sciences, 1971; #478B
Lasswell, memo, American Policy Commission, 6/3/41; #2068
Lasswell, radio, "What Freedom of Information Means to You," 2/5/50; #554
Lasswell, radio, "Can We Defeat the Propaganda of International Communism?," 8/20/50; #553
Lasswell, speech, "Political Science of Science," American Political Science Association, 9/6/56; #478
Lasswell, speech, "How to Preserve Our Freedom While Rearming," Committee for Economic Development, 12/10/48; #478
Latin America, article, "Voice of Latin America," Britannica Book of the Year, 1961; #1740
Latin America, article, Latin Americans Must Do Their Part," Challenge Magazine, 1/62; #1832
Latin America, Voice of Latin America, hardcover edition, 9/61; #1741
Latin America, Voice of Latin America, paperback edition, 12/65; #1741D
Latin America, footnote, Cooperation for Progress in Latin America, 2/61; #1796
Latin America, footnote, Economic Development of Central America, 11/64; #1989
Latin America, interview, "Hard Look at Our Latin Aid Program," New York World Telegram, 10/7/61; #1825
Latin America, radio, "Voice of Latin America," 12/4/61; #1831A
Latin America, radio, "Voice of Latin America," 10/3/61; #1737
Latin America, radio, "Voice of Latin America," 11/22/61; #1818A
Latin America, radio, "Voice of Latin America," no text, 2/62; #1858
Latin America, radio, 10/6/61; #1824
Latin America, radio, 10/15/61; #1823
Latin America, radio, "Press in Russia, the Congo, and Latin America," 2/2/62; #1851
Latin America, radio, 11/1/61; #1829
Latin America, radio, progress in Latin America, no text, 11/61; #1830
Latin America, speech, "Common Market for Latin America," Democrats of 2nd Congressional District, 5/22/58; #397
Latin America, speech, "For United States Leadership in Developing Latin American Common Market," Herald Tribune Book and Author Luncheon, 12/4/61; #1831
Latin America, speech, Overseas Press Club, no text, 10/4/61; #1818
Latin America, speech, Yale Law School Forum, no text, 10/25/61; #1827
Latin America, television, "Geography in Mid-Century," no text, 11/61; #1833
Latin America, television, "How Can We Strengthen Latin American Relations?," 10/29/61; #1819
Latin American trip, articles, unpublished drafts, 1960; #1738
Latin American trip, articles, "Communist Threat at our Back Door," New York Times, 7/17/60; #1746
Latin American trip, articles, series, North American Newspaper Alliance, 3/60; #1715
Latin American trip, articles, "Is United States Now Losing Out in Latin America?," U. S. News and World Report, 4/11/60; #1726
Latin American trip, articles, "Latin American Trip"; #1738
Latin American trip, articles, "Voice of Latin America," Hartford Courant, 10/11/61; #1741B
Latin American trip, briefing, Ken Holland, 1/25/60; #1744
Latin American trip, briefing, Wayne Morse on Latin American-United States relations, 1/18/60; #1625
Latin American trip, memo, "Conclusions about United States Policy Applied to Latin America," (#94), 4/18/60; #1735
Latin American trip, memo, "General Remarks about Schedules and Protocol throughout the Trip," (#42), 3/22/60; #1676
Latin American trip, memo, Antioquia, (#9), 2/24/60; #1641
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, production manager for Container Corporation of America, (#6), 2/29/60; #1638
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, labor leaders (#7), 2/23/60; #1639
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, students of National University, (#18), 3/1/60; #1650
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, "Good Monsignor," (#19), 3/1/60; #1651
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, "Bullfighting," (#20), 3/1/60; #1652
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, "Visit to the University of the Andes," (#17), 3/1/60; #1649
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, labor and embassy leaders, (#30), 3/2/60; #1662
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, government and embassy officials, (#21), 3/3/60; #1653
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, government and embassy officials, (#22), 3/3/60; #1654
Latin American trip, memo, Bogota, President Lleras, (#10), 2/29/60; #1642
Latin American trip, memo, Brasilia, (#95), 4/1/60; #1714
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, comments on ex-U. S. Ambassador Nufer and his alleged friendship with Peron, (#59), 3/21/60; #1693
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, Albion Patterson, (#63), 3/21/60; #1697
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, Albion Patterson, (#64), 3/21/60; #1698
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, Albion Patterson, (#65), 3/22/60; #1699
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, Secretary of Treasury, 3/22/60; #1695
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, (#68), 3/22/60; #1702
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, Minister of the Interior, (#58), 3/22/60; #1692
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, former Minister of Finance, (#60), 3/22/60; #1694
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, University of Buenos Aires and Bariloche Institute, (#69), 3/23/60; #1703
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, Ambassador Beaulac, (#57), 3/22/60; #1691
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, communism in Latin America and Castro, (#62), 3/23/60; #1696
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, briefing at U. S. Embassy and comments on Stevenson's visit with General Aramburo, (#66), 3/23/60; #1700
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, Foreign Minister, (#67), 3/28/60; #1701
Latin American trip, memo, Buenos Aires, Minister of Economy, (#79), 4/1/60; #1716
Latin American trip, memo, Caracas, miscellaneous, (#89), 4/7/60; #1728
Latin American trip, memo, Caracas, miscellaneous, Foreign Minister, (#88), 4/1/60; #1727
Latin American trip, memo, Cuzco, Bi-National Center, (#39), 3/9/60; #1671
Latin American trip, memo, Cuzco, train trip, (#56), 3/8/60; #1690
Latin American trip, memo, Guatemala City, (#16), 1/16/60; #1648
Latin American trip, memo, Guayaquil, "Reflections on Trip Planning," (#34), 3/7/60; #1666
Latin American trip, memo, Lima, USIA, (#31), 3/7/60; #1663
Latin American trip, memo, Lima, "Embassy Briefing; Intellectual and Political Leaders," (#36), 3/8/60; #1668
Latin American trip, memo, Lima, "Visit to the Slums," (#37), 3/9/60; #1669
Latin American trip, memo, Lima, "Embassy Briefing Session," (#35), 3/9/60; #1667
Latin American trip, memo, Lima, Premier, (#38), 3/9/60; #1670
Latin American trip, memo, Mexico City, Foreign Minister, (#3), 2/15/60; #1622
Latin American trip, memo, Mexico City, Finance Minister, (#4), 2/15/60; #1623
Latin American trip, memo, Mexico City, Education Minister, (#5), 2/15/60; #1624
Latin American trip, memo, Mexico City, briefing session at U. S. Embassy, (#1), 2/15/60; #1620
Latin American trip, memo, Mexico City, President, (#41), 2/16/60; #1675
Latin American trip, memo, Mexico City, administrative set-up of University of Mexico, (#2), 2/16/60; #1621
Latin American trip, memo, Micchu Picchu, Latin American universities by group returning from Santiago University conference, (#40A), 3/3/60; #1672A
Latin American trip, memo, Micchu Picchu, former rector at University of Cuzco, (#40), 3/9/60; #1672
Latin American trip, memo, Montevideo, general background notes, (#72), 3/24/60; #1706
Latin American trip, memo, Montevideo, motion pictures and Latin American economy, (#71), 3/25/60; #1705
Latin American trip, memo, Panama City, President and Ambassador, (#15), 2/18/60; #1647
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, Foreign Minister, (#23), 3/2/60; #1655
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, Central University officials, (#24), 3/2/60; #1656
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, Foreign Minister, (#25), 3/2/60; #1657
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, President and Ambassador, (#26), 3/2/60; #1658
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, head of USIA, (#33), 3/4/60; #1665
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, labor leaders, (#29), 3/4/60; #1661
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, USOM Industry Officer, (#28), 3/4/60; #1660
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, ex-President, (#27), 3/7/60; #1659
Latin American trip, memo, Quito, ex-President, (#32), 3/7/60; #1664
Latin American trip, memo, Rio de Janeiro, Ministry of Education, (#91), 3/26/60; #1732
Latin American trip, memo, Rio de Janeiro, briefing at the Embassy, (#81), 3/31/60; #1718
Latin American trip, memo, Rio de Janeiro, slums and miscellaneous comments, (#87), 3/31/60; #1724
Latin American trip, memo, Rio de Janeiro, Pan American operations, (#83), 3/31/60; #1720
Latin American trip, memo, Rio de Janeiro, Foreign Ministry, (#86), 3/31/60; #1723
Latin American trip, memo, Rio de Janeiro, U. S.-Latin American relations, (#84), 4/1/60; #1721
Latin American trip, memo, Rio de Janeiro, (#85), 4/1/60; #1722
Latin American trip, memo, Rio de Janeiro, comments at cocktail party announcing Brazilian Encyclopedia, (#90), 4/4/60; #1731
Latin American trip, memo, San Jose, briefing, (#11), 2/23/60; #1643
Latin American trip, memo, San Jose, President and Cabinet, (#14), 2/23/60; #1646
Latin American trip, memo, San Jose, briefing for Panama Canal, (#12), 2/23/60; #1644
Latin American trip, memo, San Jose, Jose Figueres, (#13), 2/23/60; #1645
Latin American trip, memo, Santa Cruz, agricultural problems and work of FAO, 3/60; #1733B
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, students and South American millionaires, (#54), 3/10/60; #1689A
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, miscellaneous notes mostly about agricultural problems, (#51), 3/14/60; #1686
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, Stevenson's conference with students and Benton's offer of Encyclopaedia Britannica yearbooks, (#55), 3/14/60; #1689B
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, cultural exchange program, (#53), 3/14/60; #1688
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, opposition leaders in the Congress, (#52), 3/16/60; #1687
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, copper industry, (#50), 3/16/60; #1685
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, briefing sessions at U. S. Embassy, (#49), 3/16/60; #1684
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, University of Chile and University of Mexico, (#46), 3/16/60; #1681
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, economic conditions, (#47), 3/16/60; #1682
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, Labor Minister, (#43), 3/16/60; #1677
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, import controls on U. S. cars, (#45), 3/16/60; #1679
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, Chilean government officials, (#48), 3/17/60; #1683
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, President, (#44), 3/21/60; #1678
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, Foreign Minister, (#70), 3/28/60; #1704
Latin American trip, memo, Santiago, foreign relations, (#92), 4/11/60; #1733
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, labor situation, (#93), 3/60; #1734
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, industry, (#75), 3/25/60; #1709
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, political and economic conditions in Brazil, (#74), 3/28/60; #1708
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, Consul General and staff, (#78), 3/28/60; #1712
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, Hickman Price's dinner, (#73), 3/28/60; #1707
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, ranch of International Packers and lunch at Irwins, (#76), 3/29/60; #1710
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, economics and American capital in South America, (#77), 3/29/60; #1711
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, Mercedes Benz and General Motors plants, (#80), 3/31/60; #1717
Latin American trip, memo, Sao Paulo, briefing by Public Works Minister, (#82), 4/5/60; #1719
Latin American trip, Currie Lauchlin memo and Benton's comments about problems in Colombia, (#8), 2/29/60; #1640
Latin American trip, Edward Miller, Jr. memo to Stevenson, 2/27/60; #1739
Latin American trip, Raul Prebisch memo about need for economic development policy in Latin America, 3/60; #1733A
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Argentina #8, 2/60; #1633
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Brazil #10, 2/60; #1635
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Chile #7, 2/60; #1632
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Colombia #4, 2/60; #1629
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Costa Rica #2, 2/60; #1627
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Ecuador #5, 2/60; #1630
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Guatemala #12, 2/60; #1637
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Mexico #1, 2/60; #1626
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Panama #3, 2/60; #1628
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Peru #6, 2/60; #1631
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Uruguay #9, 2/60; #1634
Latin American trip, Kalman Silvert memo, Venezuela #11, 2/60; #1636
Latin American trip, Carleton Smith memos, 4/60; #1742
Latin American trip, Adlai Stevenson notes, 2-3/61; #1242
Latin American trip, photos; #1680
Latin American trip, press conference, Benton, 4/7/60; #1729
Latin American trip, press conference, Stevenson, Argentina, 3/19/60; #1725
Latin American trip, press conference, Stevenson, Venezuela, 4/4/60; #1743
Latin American trip, press conference, Stevenson, Uruguay, 3/21/60; #1745
Latin American trip, radio, 4/7/60; #1730
Latin American trip, statement, "Latin American Trip with Governor Stevenson," 2/7/60; #1399
Latin American trip, television, "Tightrope in Havana," 6/18/60; #1736
Latin American trip, television, 4/8/60; #1713
Latin American trip, television, "How Can We Strengthen Latin American Relations?," 10/29/61; #1819
Leacacos, John P., Fires in the In-Basket, 1968; #2231
Lehman, Herbert, Benton endorsements in 1952 campaign; #480
Lehman, Allan Nevins book, Herbert H. Lehman and His Era, 1963; #1926
Lehman, radio, "Civil Rights," 5/3/50; #925
Lehman, speech, "Challenge of Sputnik and What It Means; A Program of Action," Einstein College of Medicine, 11/24/57; #730
Lehman, speech, "Way to Peace and Security in the Middle East," National Council of Jewish Women Convention Banquet, 3/21/57; #103
Lehman, speech, "Government Reorganization," 3/29/50; #934
Lehman, speech, "McCarthy Challenge by Senator Benton," 12/14/54; #691
Lehman, Senate testimony, "Marshall Plan of Ideas; Resolution #243," 7/50; #882
Lieberman, Joseph, The Power Broker, 1966; #2137
Lilienthal, David E., The Journals of David E. Lilienthal, v. 3, 1966; #2159
Louchheim, Katie, By the Political Sea, 1970; #2262
Luce, Clare Booth, Stephen Shadegg book, Clare Booth Luce, 1970; #2291
Luce, "Flying Clipper" cruise, photo, 6/61; #1001
Luce, speech in House, "Information Program and State Department," 9/11/45; #1220
Luce, Henry, W. A. Swanberg, Luce and his Empire; #2237
Annes, Marya, "What's Wrong with Our Press?," American Society of Newspaper Editors, 4/21/60; #1616
Marsh, Reginald, miscellaneous articles, 1955-1956; #113
Marsh, Harry Gilroy, "Whitney May Get 239 Works by Reginald Marsh," New York Times, 10/3/67; #2168
Marsh, Theatre World Drawings of Reginald Marsh, 11/72; #133D
Marsh, Marsh portrait of Benton, 1948; #1535
Marsh, photo, 8/52; #1458
Marsh, photo, humorous note and sketch sent to Benton; #1587
Marsh, photo, #1412
Marsh, photo, postscript; #1587
Marshall Plan of Ideas, editorial, Christian Century, 4/50; #151I
Marshall Plan of Ideas, editorial, "Struggle for the Minds and Loyalties of Mankind," New York Times, 3/23/50; #151A
Marshall Plan of Ideas, hearings, Senate Foreign Relation Committee, 7/5-7/50; #151B
Marshall Plan of Ideas, interview, 6/11/50; #1060
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Benton letter and Warren Austin reply, 10/13/50; #151H
Marshall Plan of Ideas, letter, Lawton J. Collins to Benton, 7/50; #151E
Marshall Plan of Ideas, letter, Oveta Culp Hobby to Benton, 7/10/50; #151L
Marshall Plan of Ideas, letter, Cordell Hull to Thomas Elbert, 7/13/50; #151F
Marshall Plan of Ideas, photos, Senate hearings, 7/52; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, radio, 3/22/50; #926
Marshall Plan of Ideas, radio, reaction of Connecticut constituents, 4/50; #917
Marshall Plan of Ideas, radio, 7/23/50; #513
Marshall Plan of Ideas, speech, 7/5-7/50; #151B-151J
Marshall Plan of Ideas, speech, 7/5/50; #682
Marshall Plan of Ideas, speech, 3/22/50; #151
Marshall Plan of Ideas, speech, 7/11/50; #151J
Marshall Plan of Ideas, speech, "Samuel Goldwyn's Offer of Services of Motion Picture Industry to Carry Out Marshall Plan of Ideas," 7/12/50; #483
Marshall Plan of Ideas, speech, Venterans of Foreign Wars Convention, 6/24/50; #533
Marshall Plan of Ideas, speech, Woodbury Town Hall Meeting, 10/26/50; #453
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate statement, 7/5/50; #151C
Marshall Plan of Ideas, telegram, Samuel Goldwyn on behalf of motion picture industry, 7/12/50; #151D
Marshall Plan of Ideas, television, 8/2/50; #1056
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Acheson, 7/5/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Edward W. Barrett, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Dulles, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Eisenhower, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Mark Ethridge, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Ralph E. Flanders, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Frank P. Graham, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Robert C. Hendrickson, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Lehman, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Marshall, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Wayne Morse, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Mundt, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Stanley H. Ruttenberg, 7/7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, David Sarnoff, 7/6/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, Walter B. Smith, 7/50; #882
Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate testimony, George Stoddard, 7/18/50; #882
Matusow, Harvey, False Witness, 1955; #2205
Mayer, Milton, "Four Lives of William Benton," Esquire, 7/58; #275
Mayer, "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot," Progressive Magazine, 6/59; #1120
Mayer, "William Benton; The Country's No. 1 No. 2 Man," Life Magazine, 1/14/46; #261
Mayer, with Benton, editorial and article ideas for University of Chicago, 1937-1939; #725
McCarthy, Joseph, Benton article, "Europe and Senator McCarthy," Fort-nightly Review, 4/54; #6
McCarthy, Joseph, "Europe and McCarthy," New Leader, 7/22/57; #9
McCarthy, Willard Edwards, "William Benton Tries a Comeback," National Review, 6/7/58; #557
McCarthy, Leo Flaherty, "Senator Benton's Courage in McCarthy Case," Commonweal, 2/4/55; #711
McCarthy, Larry Lader, "Who Really Stopped McCarthy?," 1959; #1360
McCarthy, Frank S. Meyer, "Meaning of McCarthyism," National Review, 6/14/58; #572
McCarthy, Drew Pearson, "McCarthy Challenge by Senator Benton," Denver Post, 12/12/54; #691A
McCarthy, Richard Rovere, "Last Days of McCarthy," Esquire, 8/58; #632
McCarthy, Edward B. Williams, "Final Irony of Joe McCarthy," Saturday Evening Post, 6/9/62; #1767
McCarthy, Henry Christman, History of Bigotry, 1960; #1316
McCarthy, Clinton Anderson and Milton Viorst, Outsider in the Senate; #2270
McCarthy, Jack Anderson and Ronald W. May, McCarthy; The Man, The Senator, The Ism, 1952; #1747
McCarthy, Robert Griffith, The Politics of Fear; Joseph R. McCarthy and the Senate, 1970; #2269
McCarthy, Paul Michael Rogin, The Intellectuals and McCarthy; The Radical Specter, 1967; #2157
McCarthy, James Rorty and Moshe Decter, McCarthy and the Communists, 1954; #2206
McCarthy, Richard Rovere, Senator Joe McCarthy, 1959; #632A
McCarthy, Arthur V. Watkins, Enough Rope, 1969; #2258
McCarthy, editorial, Stanley Allen, "One Man's Freedom," The New Republic, 7/62; #1767A
McCarthy, editorial, "Benton Invades Wisconsin," Christian Century, 7/16/52; #1109
McCarthy, editorial, "McCarthy; Wisconsin Senatorial Election Returns," Commonweal, 9/26/52; #996
McCarthy, editorial, "Financial Affairs of McCarthy," The New Republic, 3/30/53; #781
McCarthy, editorial, "McCarthy; A Documented Record," Progressive Magazine, 4/54; #1088
McCarthy, hearings, Select Committee to Study Censure Charges, Resolution #301, part I, 8/54; #569
McCarthy, hearings, Select Committee to Study Censure Charges, Resolution #301, part II, 8/54; #569A
McCarthy, hearings, Select Committee to Study Censure Charges, Resolution #301, volume VII, 9/10/54; #569B
McCarthy, hearings, Select Committee to Study Censure Charges, Resolution #301, 9/9/54; #569C
McCarthy, hearings, Select Committee to Study Censure Charges, Resolution #301, 9/8/54; #569D
McCarthy, hearings, Select Committee to Study Censure Charges, Resolution #301, volume VIII, 9/11/54; #569E
McCarthy, hearings, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolution #187, part I, 9/51 and 5/52; #519A
McCarthy, hearings, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolution #187, volume I, 9/28/51; #1372
McCarthy, hearings, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolution #187, volume IA, 5/12/52; #1367
McCarthy, hearings, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolution #187, volume II, 5/13/52; #1368
McCarthy, hearings, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolution #187, volume III, 5/14/52; #1369
McCarthy, hearings, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolution #187, volume IV, 5/15/52; #1370
McCarthy, hearings, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolution #187, volume V, 5/16/52; #1371
McCarthy, hearings, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolution #304, volume I, 7/3/52; #1373
McCarthy, income tax return, 1948; #1004
McCarthy, Benton interview, Catholic reaction to McCarthy from 1950 to 1954, 2/72; #2283
McCarthy, lawsuit, deposition, Stanley Allen, 9/3/52; #1845
McCarthy, lawsuit, deposition, Benton, 6/4/52; #1849
McCarthy, lawsuit, deposition, Benton, 6/5/52; #1846
McCarthy, lawsuit, deposition, Millard E. Tydings and Edward P. Morgan, 9/3/52; #1848
McCarthy, lawsuit, deposition, Walter Bedell Smith, 9/29/52; #1850
McCarthy, lawsuit, deposition, Paul Hoffman, 8/19/52; #1844
McCarthy, lawsuit, deposition, Whitaker, Myers, Miller, and Desmond, 8/23/52; #1843
McCarthy, lawsuit, deposition, Drew Pearson, 10/5/51; #1842
McCarthy, lawsuit, dropped, various newspapers, 3/54; #1204
McCarthy, lawsuit, proceedings before Honorable Burnita Shelton Matthews, 8/19/52; #1847
McCarthy, McCarthy letter to Guy Gillette, Benton Resolution #187, 3/6/52; #813
McCarthy, Benton letter, protesting Williams' article on McCarthy, Saturday Evening Post, 8/25/62; #1767B
McCarthy, Benton letter, to Guy Gillette, McCarthy's evasions of Privileges and Elections Subcommittee's hearings and subpoena, 7/4/52; #1834
McCarthy, Benton letter, to Howard McGrath, McCarthy's charges against Acheson and Phillip Jessup, 9/1/51; #1020
McCarthy, Benton letter, to editor, televised McCarthy hearings, New York Times, 6/29/54; #1222
McCarthy, Benton letter, Ralph Flanders to Arthur Watkins, McCarthy's refusal to answer charges in Hennings-Hayden-Hendrickson Report of January 1953, 8/30/54; #1007
McCarthy, Benton letter, Milton Fogelman to Benton, support in face of McCarthy threat to label Benton supporters as co-conspirators, 6/7/52; #774
McCarthy, Benton letter, Elmo Roper to Edward Fay, political attitudes in Connecticut toward the McCarthy issue, 5/14/58; #615
McCarthy, Benton letter, G. P. Van Arkel to Benton, 30,000 word testimony on McCarthy lawsuit, 1/53; #1841
McCarthy, Benton letter, William Proxmire to Benton, McCarthy influences in 1956 campaign, 9/1/57; #779
McCarthy, photo, "Benton Sees the Shadow of McCarthyism," Milwaukee Journal, 10/26/58; #1142
McCarthy, photo, 8/51; #519A
McCarthy, Benton press conference, postwar Italy, 6/14/50; #532
McCarthy, radio, Benton interview, 5/11/53; #1008
McCarthy, radio, Benton interview, 2/10-11/64; #1939
McCarthy, radio, "Ten Tricks of the Devil's Trade," 10/18/52; #703
McCarthy, radio, 10/8/51; #1138
McCarthy, radio, 8/20/52; #954
McCarthy, radio, "McCarthy's Stormy Career," 10/28/52; #942
McCarthy, report, Bean Report on McCarthy's influence in 1954 mid-term elections; #144
McCarthy, report, Privileges and Elections Subcommittee of Rules and Administration Committee, Resolutions #187 and #304, 1952; #1205
McCarthy, report, Select Committee to Study Censure Charges, Proposal of Senator Flanders to Oust McCarthy, Resolution #301, 8/2/54; #569
McCarthy, report, Resolution #187, 8/6/51; #948-948A
McCarthy, Benton speech, "Politics," Federated Democratic Women's Club, 5/3/52; #561
McCarthy, Benton speech, "People versus McCarthy Meeting," Hunter College, 5/24/54
McCarthy, Benton speech, "Democratic Party," Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, 4/11/53; #207
McCarthy, Benton speech, "Principles of Christianity and Patriotism," Postal Workers' Communion Breakfast, 5/18/52; #228
McCarthy, Benton speech, "Exposing Communist Influences in Connecticut," 4/28/52; #699
McCarthy, Benton speech, "Congress; Morality and Responsibility," CIO Education Conference, 4/5/52; #231
McCarthy, Benton speech, "McCarthy's Lies in Regard to Communist Employees of Encyclopaedia Britannica Films," Waterbury Democrats, 10/29/52; #935
McCarthy, Benton speech, West Haven Democratic Town Committee, 8/51; #1866
McCarthy, Benton speech, "Politics, McCarthy, and Democratic Party Achievements," Wisconsin State Democratic Convention, 6/28/52; #421
McCarthy, Benton speech, "Democratic Perspective," Young Democratic Club of Storrs, 11/5/53; #203
McCarthy, Benton speech, "Creeping Corruption," University of Wisconsin Young Democrats, 1/13/54; #202
McCarthy, Benton speech, Senate, "Warning to the Senate," 2/1/51; #684
McCarthy, Benton speech, Senate, "Resolution #187 and McCarthy's Role in Maryland Senatorial Election of 1950," 8/6/51; #1053
McCarthy, Benton speech, Senate, Senate Resolution #187 calling for investigation, 9/28/51; #519
McCarthy, Benton speech, Senate, "Senator McCarthy's Slanderous Attacks on the Ed Murrow Show," 3/18/52; #566
McCarthy, Benton speech, Senate, in defense of expulsion resolution, 7/5/52; #949
McCarthy, Herbert Lehman speech, "McCarthy Challenge by Senator Benton," 12/14/54; #691
McCarthy, McCarthy speech, "Communists in State Department," Women's Republican Clubs, 2/9/50; #1006
McCarthy, McCarthy speech, "Communists in State Department," excerpts, 2/20/50; #941
McCarthy, Richard Neuberger speech, "William Benton as Statesman of Great Courage; McCarthy Challenge Cost him Senate Seat," 1/18/60; #1602
McCarthy, Margaret Chase Smith et al., "Declaration of Conscience; Smear Tactics of McCarthy," 6/1/50; #1840
McCarthy, statement, "Evils of McCarthyism," Public Affair Committee of Freedom House, 1952; #997
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Answers to Action Brought by Senator McCarthy," 1952; #994
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Joseph Come Lately in the Fight Against Communists," 10/8/51; #1032
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Employment of an Admitted Homosexual Ex-Communist on his Staff," 10/27/51; #1031
McCarthy, Benton statement, "McInerney Letter to Benton Stating McCarthy's Duty to Inform Department of Justice of Communistic Evidence in Government," 12/19/51; #1029
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Removal of Senators Smith and Hendrickson by Senator McCarthy," 1/16/52; #982
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Mr. Benton Waives his Immunity," 3/27/52; #1102
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Use of Tape Recordings in McCarthy Judicial Proceedings," 5/6/52; #787
McCarthy, Benton statement, pre-trial depositions, 8/52; #748
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Mr. Benton Repeats Demands for a Federal Per jury Prosecution, Citing 14 Examples of Knowingly False Testimony Given under Oath by McCarthy," 8/31/52; #775
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Like It or Not, the Entire Republican Party Is Now Saddled with Senator McCarthy," 9/10/52; #792
McCarthy, Benton statement, "Subcommittee on Privileges and Elections Stymied by McCarthy Tactics," 9/28/52; #995
McCarthy, Benton telegram to Arthur Watkins, McCarthy censure issue, 9/13/54; #753
McCarthy, television, panel discussion, 10/10/51; #724
McCarthy, television, McCarthy interview, 3/23/52; #987
McMahon, Brien, "Galloping Inflation Can Destroy Us, Too," Connecticut State CIO Yearbook, 1952; #245
McMahon, radio, "Congress; Its Coming Issues," 2/17/52; #967
McMahon, speech, "Atomic Energy; Peaceful Uses," Sir John Maud Lecture Series; #17
McMahon, Senate speech, "Government Reorganization and Senator Benton's Fight for It," 5/24/50; #630
McMahon, Senate speech, "Vital Needs for Foreign Aid," 4/23/51; #245A
McMahon, Benton statement, "Exchange of Scientific Information with NATO and Inaccuracy of Washington News Releases," 10/28/57; #46
McMahon, Benton statement, "Tribute to Brien McMahon on his Candidacy for Re-Election," 4/2/52; #1099
McMahon, Benton tribute, 12/61; #1837
McMahon, Benton tribute, Democratic National Convention, 7/25/52; #707
Meacham, Harry M., The Caged Panther, 1967; #2200
Meehan, Thomas, "Amos 'n Andy," New York Times, 12/72; #2319
Military policy, Benton letter to Connecticut constituents about Universal Military Training Act, 3/28/51; #798
Military policy, "Constitutional Powers of President and Bricker Amendment," 3/22/51; #469
Military policy, Benton testimony, Preparedness Subcommittee of Armed Forces Committee, reply to nine questions directed by Special Counsel to Committee, 1/28/58; #153
Mitchell, Maurice, "Communications," Britannica Book of the Year, 1958; #517
Mitchell, "Education; A New Era Begins," Fenn College, 5/20/58; #850
Mitchell, Senate testimony, Labor and Welfare Committee, "Educational Films," 3/58; #516
Montapert, Alfred Armond, Distilled Wisdom, 1964; #2150
Moore, Olga, I'll Meet You in the Lobby, 1950; #1868
Morgan, Edmund S., speeches and articles; #1283
Morison, Stanley, 65th Birthday Tribute to William Benton, 4/1/65; #2057
Morison, autographed photo, 1957; #1409
Morros, Boris, "My Ten Years as a Counterspy," Look Magazine, 11/26/57; #884
Morros, My Ten Years as a Counterspy; #884
Morse, Wayne, briefing on Latin American-U. S. relations, 1/18/60; #1625
Morse, speech and letter about promoting world peace through the rule of law and through economic aid, Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference, 12/57; #162
Morse, television, 1952 campaign, 10/31/52; #933
Morse, Senate testimony, Marshall Plan of Ideas, 7/50; #882
Muzak, "Life Goes to a Party," Life Magazine, 11/17/48; #290
Muzak, Paul Lazarsfeld report, "Subscription Radio; Sampling Public Attitudes on Behalf of Muzak," 12/44; #33
Muzak, Benton statement, "Sale and Background," 9/20/57; #14
Muzak, Joseph Weiner testimony, "Subscription Radio; A Plea in Behalf of Muzak," Federal Communications Commission, 10/12/44; #727
Mynell, Francis, My Lives, 1971; #2284
National Defense Education Act, Senate hearings, Reorganization Subcommittee of Government Operations Committee, part 2, 6/58; #1377
National Defense Education Act, Language Development Program, 1958; #1375
National Defense Education Act, report, House Education and Labor Committee, 1958; #1376
National Defense Education Act, Resolution #13247, House Education and Labor Committee, 7/58; #1378
National Defense Education Act, summary and analysis, 1958; #1379
Nehru, Jawaharlal, autographed photo, 1936; #1476
Nelson, Charles A., Developing Responsible Public Leaders, 1963; #1929
Ogburn, William, manuscripts and articles; #494
PM Magazine, announcement, art contest, 4/40; #1174
PM Magazine, announcement, Ingersoll, no-advertising policy, 3/40; #1216
PM Magazine, by-laws, 2/9/40; #1173
PM Magazine, edition, first, 6/18/40; #1000
PM Magazine, edition, Sunday, 6/16/40; #1159
PM Magazine, edition, preview, 6/14/40; #1160
PM Magazine, Max Annenberg dynasty, circulation wars conference, 5/31/40; #1175
PM Magazine, interviews, 5/7/40; #1167
PM Magazine, letters; #1170
PM Magazine, mailing pieces, 6/4/40; #1172
PM Magazine, prospectus, 1940; #1161
Palgunov, lectures, in Russian only, 1955; #1048
Palmer, Gretta, "If I Were 21," Ladies Home Journal, 1/7/47; #1252
Pearson, Drew, "McCarthy Challenge by Senator Benton," Denver Post, 12/12/54; #691A
Pearson, USA; Second Class Power?, 1958; #1933
Pearson, L. B., discussion about non-governmental organizations, 6/27/55; #983
Platt, John R., "Step to Man," Science Magazine, 1965; #2117
Politics. See also Advertising, Campaigns, Democratic Advisory Council.
Politics. See also Advertising, Louis H. Bean, "Benton's Chances in 1962," 6/61; #1813
Politics. See also Advertising, Louis H. Bean, How to Predict the 1950 Elections," 8/21/50; #612
Politics. See also Advertising, Louis H. Bean, "Influences in the 1954 Mid-Term Elections," Public Affairs Institute, 1954; #144
Politics. See also Advertising, Louis H. Bean, "Vote Getting Record; Benton, Bowles, Dodd," 4/58; #394
Politics. See also Advertising, Benton article, "Join a Party-Either Party but Join," Ladies Home Journal, 5/52; #239
Politics. See also Advertising, Benton article, "Salesman and Politician," New York Sales Executive, 9/49; #263
Politics. See also Advertising, Benton article, "Why More Businessmen Should Be Democrats," Progressive Magazine, 10/56; #39
Politics. See also Advertising, article, Irwin Ross, "Battle of Connecticut," New York Post, 5/18/58; #558
Politics. See also Advertising, article, Mennen G. Williams, "Can Businessmen Be Democrats?, "Harvard Business Review, 3-4/58; #256
Politics. See also Advertising, book, G. William Domhoff, Fat Cats and Democrats, 1972; #2299
Politics. See also Advertising, Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, photo, 2/25/56; #1461
Politics. See also Advertising, Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, speech, "Politics," 3/25/50; #1118
Politics. See also Advertising, Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, speech, "MacArthur," 5/16/51; #530
Politics. See also Advertising, Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, speech, "Accomplishments under the Democratic Party," 4/19/51; #695
Politics. See also Advertising, Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, speech, "Democratic Party Achievements," 5/3/52; #560
Politics. See also Advertising, Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, speech, "Unacknowledged Parents," 2/26/55; #179
Politics. See also Advertising, Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, "Democratic Party," 4/11/53; #207
Politics. See also Advertising, letter, Benton to John Bailey, Benton's vote-getting ability, 4/20/61; #1814
Politics. See also Advertising, letter, Benton to Frank DiLoreto, creating state scholarships to Connecticut colleges, 4/18/61; #1803
Politics. See also Advertising, letter, Benton to editor, "Big Job for Bush," New York Times, 1/6/73; #2302
Politics. See also Advertising, Galbraith and Schlesinger letter to Harvard president and Fellows, honorary degrees denied worthy Democrats, 12/59; #1383
Politics. See also Advertising, Benton memo, political analysis of Europe in 1935, 4/35; #1613
Politics. See also Advertising, radio, 2/10-11/64; #1939
Politics. See also Advertising, radio, "Ten Tricks of the Devil's Trade," 10/18/52; #703
Politics. See also Advertising, radio, 8/9/64; #1997
Politics. See also Advertising, radio, "Defense Contracts and Connecticut's Share under the Democratic Party," 10/24/52; #830
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Ideas in World Politics," Advertising Federation, 6/15/48; #271
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Labor's Achievements under the Democratic Party," Connecticut Federation of Labor, 9/21/50; #568
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, draft of introduction of John Sparkman, Democratic Women's Club of Greenwich, 4/15/55; #169
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Tribute to Ralph Garofalo," 11/15/57; #1772
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Ethics and Politics," Harvard Law School Forum (includes photo), 2/18/55; #180
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Tribute to Congressman Frank Kowalski," testimonial dinner, 4/15/61; #1801
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Commemoration of Independence of Lithuania," Marianapolis (Connecticut) School, 7/4/51; #610
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Politics in General," Stratford Democratic Victory Dinner, 3/1/56; #76
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Everything Is Going According to Plan," Westport Democrats, 6/27/53; #206
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "European Integration," Westport Kiwanis Club, 8/7/57; #127
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Education," Windham County Democratic Association, no text, 9/23/57; #53
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Politics and McCarthy and Democratic Party Achievements," Wisconsin State Democratic Convention, 6/28/52; #421
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Our School Needs; Federal Responsibility," Women's National Democratic Club, 10/7/57; #52
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Subscription Television for Education," Women's National Democratic Club, 10/1/59; #1274
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "In Support of Governor Dempsey on Tax Issue," Young Democratic Club of Connecticut, no text, 11/17/61; #1828
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Democratic Perspective," Young Democratic Club of University of Connecticut, 11/5/53; #203
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Democrats, Republicans, and Businessmen," Young Democrats of Trinity College, 5/17/55; #379
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Why More Businessmen Should Be Democrats," Young Presidents' Organization, 10/23/56; #39A
Politics. See also Advertising, speech, "Business and Its Political Mythology," Young Presidents' Organization, 4/4/55; #39B
Politics and ethics, Benton article, "Ten Commandments for Congressmen," Everybody's Digest, 4/52; #627
Politics and ethics, Benton article, "Big Dilemma; Conscience or Votes," New York Times, 4/26/59; #1092
Politics and ethics, Benton article, "For Distinguished Service in Congress," ibid., 7/24/55; #163
Politics and ethics, Benton article, "Decalogue for Members of Congress," New York Times Magazine, 7/51; #627
Politics and ethics, Benton article, "To Stem the Tide of Political Dollars," ibid., 12/9/51; #1775
Politics and ethics, Margaret Halsey, "Beware the Tender Trap," New Republic, 2/58; #299
Politics and ethics, Federal Corrupt Practices and Political Activities Laws; #1027
Politics and ethics, radio, "Ten Commandments for Congress," 8/22/51; #1129
Politics and ethics, radio, "Corrupt Practices Act; Federal Government," 9/17/51; #1127
Politics and ethics, speech, "Is Politics a Dirty Business? They Say It Is," Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, 12/4/72; #2297A
Politics and ethics, speech, "Challenge of Public Service," Claremont School of Theology, 12/13/60; #1780
Politics and ethics, speech, "Congress; Morality and Responsibility," CIO Education Conference, 4/5/52; #231
Politics and ethics, television, "How Should Political Campaigns Be Conducted?," 1/15/56; #89
Politics and ethics, television, 1952; #222
Potter, Charles E., Days of Shame, 1965; #2094
Publications, Incorporated, articles of incorporation, 12/22/34; #1281
Quant, Mary, Quant by Quant, 1965; #2221
Radio. See specific names, such as American Forum of the Air, University of Chicago Round Table.
Reader's Digest, "Mr. Benton, You Have Started a Revolution," 9/59; #1258
Reader's Digest, Urrows draft on reading; #1288
Reader's Digest Foundation Awards, Benton testimonial, 4/15/70; #2252
Redfield, Robert, "Talk with a Stranger," Overbrook Press, 12/58; #791
Redfield, "Wisdom of Huckleberry Finn," University of Chicago, 6/16/50; #1243
Redfield, Hutchins speech, "Robert Redfield; In Memoriam," 11/18/58; #1035
Ribicoff, Abraham, speech, "Legislation," Chamber of Commerce of Elkins, West Virginia, 5/22/61; #382
Ribicoff, Abraham, "Youth," Conference on the National Committee for Children and Youth, 5/24/61; #382
Ribicoff, Abraham, nomination of Benton for Senate, Democratic State Convention, 7/26/50; #441
Ribicoff, Abraham, nomination of Benton for Senate, 7/52; #564
Ribicoff, Abraham, "Health," Health and Welfare Association, 5/23/61; #382
Ribicoff, Abraham, "Social Welfare," National Conference on Social Welfare, 5/14/61; #382
Ribicoff, statement, "Future of Higher Education in Connecticut," Connecticut Council on Higher Education Conference, 2/12/57; #92
Rockefeller, John D., IV, "Students of Japan; An Intimate Challenge," New York Times Magazine, 6/5/60; #1762
Roddan, Edward L., announcement, joins Benton's personal staff, 11/21/57; #194
Roddan, manuscripts, 1958; #512
Romulo, Carlos P., I Walked with Heroes, 1961; #2152
Roosevelt, Patricia Peabody, I Love a Roosevelt, 1967; #2165
Roper Elmo, "A Non-Poll by a Famous Publisher," Art in America, 3/68; #2164A
Roper, letter to Edward Fay, political attitudes in Connecticut toward the McCarthy issue, 5/14/58; #615
Roper, Benton questionnaire, Art in America, 7/67; #2164
Roper, survey, political attitudes in Connecticut, 3/58; #615A
Ruml, Beardsley, biography, 1964; #1950
Ruml, four essays, 1956; #526A
Ruml, Benton footnote, Committee for Economic Development, Paying for Better Public Schools, 1/60; #1296
Ruml, speech, "What Is the CED? How Does It Work?," Princeton University, 5/1/50; #526
Ruml, speech, "Aspiration for Freedom," American Association of School Administrators, 2/28/50; #526
Ruml, speech, "Memo to a College Trustee, II," Hofstra College, 11/6/59; #1108A
Ruml, speech, "Perpetuating Private Higher Education in America," Middle States Association of College and Secondary Schools, 11/27/59; #526
Russia, Benton article, "We're Fooling Ourselves about Russia," American Engineer, 1/57; #7
Russia, Benton article, "Cold War in Education," American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Administrative Officers, Journal, Fall 1956; #42
Russia, Benton article, "Soviet-U. S. Talks," Bridgeport Sunday Herald, 6/26/60; #1614A
Russia, Benton article, "Soviet Challenge Demands U. S. Reply," ibid., 4/20/58; #378
Russia, Benton article, "U. S. Science Lagging," ibid., 10/31/57; #125
Russia, Benton article, three-part series on education and cultural exchange with U.S.S.R., Christian Science Monitor, 3/9/62, 3/11/62, 3/20/62; #1327
Russia, Benton article, "Trade with Soviets," ibid., 3/29-4/2/60; #1278
Russia, Benton article, "U. S.-Soviet Trade Action," 8/25/52; #1313
Russia, Benton article, "Three Soviet Challenges," Connecticut State CIO Yearbook, 1958; #1769
Russia, Benton article, "Soviet Tekhnikum; Ominous Threat to the West," Coronet, 12/56; #8
Russia, Benton article, "Are We Losing the Sheepskin War?," Democratic Digest, 7/56; #37
Russia, Benton article, "Russian Trip," Encyclopaedia Britannica News, 1/56; #105
Russia, Benton article, "Big Brother's TV Set," Esquire, 3/64; #1314
Russia, Benton article, "Soviet Decentralization," Herald Tribune, 3/14/57; #10
Russia, Benton article, "Soviet Use of Sports as Part of the Cold War," ibid., 3/8/56; #86
Russia, Benton article, "Trip Behind the Iron Curtain," ibid., 12/18-21/55; #106
Russia, Benton article, "Why Ivan Can Read," ibid., 11/2/57; #67
Russia, Benton article, "Our Best Weapon; Exchange of Students," Ladies Home Journal, 12/46; #289
Russia, Benton article, "Why Soviet Propaganda Misfired," New Republic, 12/24/56; #34
Russia, Benton article, "Communist Threat at our Back Door," New York Times, 7/17/60; #1746
Russia, Benton article, "How Strong Is Russia-And How Weak?," ibid., 6/10/56; #38
Russia, Benton article, "Now the Cold War of the Classrooms," ibid., 4/1/56; #90
Russia, Benton article, "Russian Artist's Training," ibid., 12/4/55; #383
Russia, Benton article, "To Train Scientists," ibid., 6/3/56; #109
Russia, Benton article, "What Soviet Artists May Paint," ibid., 12/18/55; #1784
Russia, Benton article, "Big Red Threat; Education," New York World Telegram, 9/10-13/62; #1311
Russia, Benton article, "Russia Revisited," North American Newspaper Alliance, 10/60; #1768
Russia, Benton article, "Russian Students in America," Parade, 6/12/60; #1298
Russia, Benton article, "What Ivan Thinks of Us," ibid., 8/25/57; #4
Russia, Benton article, "What Ivan Thinks of Us," Russian translation, Moscow Literary Gazette, 12/19/57; #159
Russia, Benton article, "Coexistence," Playboy, 12/65; #2015A
Russia, Benton article, "No Sex Appeal in Russian Ads," Sales Management Magazine, 1/15/56; #114
Russia, Benton article, "Inside the Siberian Science City," Saturday Evening Post, 12/22-29/62; #1904
Russia, Benton article, "Satellite Culture and Mr. Marx," Theatre Arts Magazine, 11/56; #133
Russia, Benton article, "Race of Our Lives," This Week Magazine, 12/28/58; #1044
Russia, Benton article, "Russia's Quiet Weapon; Education," United Press International, 9/10-13/62; #1311
Russia, Benton article, "Strange Encyclopedia," Yale Review, 1958; #181
Russia, Benton article, "Voice of the Kremlin," Britannica Book of the Year, 1956; #31
Russia, Benton article, "The Teachers and the Taught in the U.S.S.R.," Britannica Book of the Year, 1965; #2000
Russia, John Nerber, "Warning of Soviet Challenge in Education," Education Summary, 6/5/56; #809
Russia, John Norman, "Defects of Soviet Education," Teacher Education Quarterly, Spring 1958; #786
Russia, Benton book, The Teachers and the Taught in the U.S.S.R., 3/66; #2080
Russia, Benton book, This Is the Challenge; #282
Russia, Benton book review, "What Ivan Knows that Johnny Doesn't," New York Herald Tribune, 11/12/61; #1826
Russia, book, Donald Dunham, Kremlin Target; U. S. A., 1961; #1856
Russia, book, Frank O'Brien, Crisis in World Communism, 1965; #2162
Russia, editorial, "Trade War with Soviets Will Get Hotter as Russians Start Gaining," Printer's Ink, 4/24/59; #1268
Russia, editorial, "Endorsement of Benton's Proposals in 'Five Ways to Breach the Iron Curtain,'" America, 3/29/58; #376
Russia, hearings, Atomic Energy Committee, "Shortage of Scientific and Engineering Manpower," 4-5/56; #110
Russia, Benton interview, "Soviet Trade with Western Powers," British Board of Trade Officials and British Businessmen, 10/29-11/2/59; #1284
Russia, Benton interview, "Why Do U. S. Schools Fail to Create Scientists?," New York Post, 10/24/57; #288
Russia, Benton interview, Russian press in the United States, 8/13/50; #1865
Russia, Benton letter to Warren Austin, Soviet attempt to block American participation in Genocide Convention, 10/9/50; #435
Russia, Benton letter to editor, Allen Dulles speech declared warning of Russian potential, New York Times, 4/24/59; #1152
Russia, Samuel Cookey memo, 10/23/67; #2079
Russia, Benton pamphlet, "Education; Our Ultimate Weapon," 2/61; #1751B
Russia, photo, Crimea Conference, 5/61; #1002
Russia, photo, Madame Furtseva; #2312
Russia, photo, U.S.S.R. Minister of Culture, 1/72; #2312
Russia, radio, "Aims of Education; Number 2"; #1269
Russia, radio, "Khrushchev and the U. S. A.," 9/27/59; #1276
Russia, radio, "Education; Russian Versus United States and the Conant Report," 1/26-27/59; #1218
Russia, radio, "Soviet Challenge; Education," 10/23-24/57; #44
Russia, radio, "Soviet Challenge; Education, Great Books, Politics, and Ethics," 10/21/58; #1067
Russia, radio, "Russian Trip," 11/16/55; #981
Russia, radio, "Image Russia I," 2/3/59; #1260
Russia, radio, "Image Russia II," 2/3/59; #1261
Russia, radio, "Education," 1/31/58; #157
Russia, radio, This Is the Challenge and Senatorial nomination, 7/2/58; #880
Russia, radio, "Soviet versus U. S. Education," 6/16/65; #2072
Russia, radio, Radio-Moscow, U. S.-Soviet relations, 5/61; #1811
Russia, radio, 10/17/57; #411
Russia, radio, with John Benton, 11/18/57; #1115
Russia, speech, "Public Policy and the Liberal Arts," American Conference of Academic Deans, 1/6/59; #1154
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Economics and Education," American Jewish Congress, no text, 1/22/56; #83
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Education," Association for Higher Education, 3/6/56; #75
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Sports," B'nai B'rith, no text, 2/29/56; #77
Russia, speech, "U. S. A.; Wasteland or Wise-land?," Brandeis University, 12/22/62; #1861
Russia, speech, "Cold War and the Liberal Arts," Brooklyn College, 6/5/60; #1603
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge in Education," Catholic War Veterans, no text, 11/10/57; #50
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Education," University of Chicago alumi dinner, no text, 5/2/56; #85
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Science and Education," University of Colorado, no text, 12/13/57; #122
Russia, speech, "Soviet Progress in Education," Council on Foreign Relations, 4/26/56; #71
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Science and Education," Democratic Club of Manchester, 11/23/57; #123
Russia, speech, "Red Technological Imperialism," Democratic Club of Westport, 2/10/56; #81
Russia, speech, "Russia's Sputniks," Democratic gathering, no text, 11/23/59; #123
Russia, speech, "Are We Underestimating the Soviet Economic Challenge?," Economic Club of Chicago, 4/8/59; #1262
Russia, speech, "Soviet Education; Will America Meet the Challenge?," Educational Records Bureau and the American Council on Education, 11/1/56; #58
Russia, speech, Educators and Editors Conference, 12/9/55; #94
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Economics," Exchange Club of Waterbury, 2/27/56; #78
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Education," Fairfield University, no text, 1/16/58; #145
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Education," Foreign Policy Association, 12/12/58; #102
Russia, speech, "Duel for Men's Minds," Foreign Policy Conference, 7/14/55; #165
Russia, speech, "Education," Foreign Service Institute, 2/4/66; #2107
Russia, speech, "After the Geneva Spirit, What?," Freedom House, 1/24/56; #82
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Cartography and Education," Hartford Get-Together Club, no text, 1/24/58; #99
Russia, speech, "Cold War and the Liberal Arts," Knox College, 6/6/60; #1604
Russia, speech, "Junior College Education in the Soviet Union and Higher Education in Connecticut," Mitchell College, 4/17/58; #48
Russia, speech, "Soviet Education; Challenge to America," National Association of State Universities, 5/7/56; #13
Russia, speech, "Challenge to Catholic Educators," National Catholic Educational Association, 4/25/57; #55
Russia, speech, "Russian and American Library Methods," National Library Week Dinner, 3/20/58; #281
Russia, speech, "Russia's Political Capitalism," Overseas Press Club, 12/7/55; #170
Russia, speech, "Soviet Propaganda," Overseas Press Club, 4/30/56; #69
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Economics," Sales Executive Club of New York, 6/5/56; #66
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Education and Economics," Small Town Democrats, no text, 3/21/58; #287
Russia, speech, "Soviet Education; Will America Meet the Challenge? Higher Education in Connecticut," Stamford Forum on World Affairs, 1/30/57; #57
Russia, speech, "Information Program and Cultural Exchange," Teachers College of Connecticut; #720
Russia, speech, "Stalin Myth," Town Hall, 4/18/56; #136
Russia, speech, "Russia's Ousting of John A. Baker, Jr., of Westport," Windham County Democratic Association, 5/21/58; #398
Russia, speech, "Soviet Challenge; Education," Women's National Democratic Club, 2/13/56; #80
Russia, speech, "U.S.S.R.'s Political Capitalism," Yale Law School, no text, 12/14/55; #93
Russia, speech, "Soviet Economic Challenge," Union League Club of Chicago, 6/14/56; #65
Russia, speech, "Sputnik; Handwriting on the Sky," Young Democratic Club, no text, 11/15/57; #124
Russia, statement, "Russian A-Bomb Explosion and Implications in Civil Defense," 10/4/51; #805
Russia, telegram, Benton to Adlai Stevenson, Tass article on West's armed intervention in Suez and Egypt, 11/1/56; #43
Russia, television, "American Versus Soviet Education," no text, 4/20/58; #371
Russia, television, "Where Do We Go from Here? Sputnik," 10/20/57; #40
Russia, television, "Cultural Exchange; Does It Help?," 2/21/64; #1944
Russia, television, "How Should the United States Compete with Russia?," no text, 2/1/57; #11
Russia, television, "Soviet versus U. S. Education," 6/16/65; #2072
Russia, television, "Big Red Schoolhouse," 3/1/59; #1250
Russia, television, "Scientific Rivalry; United States versus U.S.S.R.," no text, 11/3/57; #12
Russia, television, "Soviet and American Education," no text, 11/18/57; #134
Russia, television, "Are the Russians Out-Reading Us?," no text, 3/18/58; #276
Russia, television, "Soviet Challenge; Education," 6/22/56; #2
Russia, television, "Soviet Challenge; Education," 12/25/57; #121
Russia, television, "Soviet Challenge; Education," 7/1/58; #801
Russia, television, "Soviet Union Training Two Million Youngsters as Semi-Professional Craftsmen," 1/12/58; #32
Russia, television, "U. S. versus Soviet Education," 3/21/66; #2111
Russia, television, "Education in the Soviet Union," no text, 1/12/58; #27
Russia, television, "Philosophy of Communism," no text, 11/58; #1112
Russia, television, Benton's arrival from Crimean Conference, 6/61; #1812
Russia, testimony, "Soviet Challenge; Science and Technology," 1/28/58; #153
Russia, testimony, "Soviet Challenge; Science and Technology," 5/1/56; #42
Russian trip 1955, announcement of Benton's planned trip to Russia and the satellites, 7/22/55; #164
Russian trip 1955, article, Helen Benton, "Experiences Behind the Iron Curtain," Connecticut College Alumnae News, 3/56; #1003
Russian trip 1955, article, Helen Benton, series in Connecticut newspapers, 1/56; #773
Russian trip 1955, article, John Benton, "I Went to School in Moscow," Life, 12/5/55; #191
Russian trip 1955, article, John Benton, "John Benton's Travelogue; Sweden, Finland, U.S.S.R.," Capital Times, 9/13/60; #1797
Russian trip 1955, article, John Benton, several newspaper articles, 1955; #252
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, series of Connecticut newspaper articles, 3/56; #106
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, Encyclopaedia Britannica News, 1/56; #105
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, "We're Fooling Ourselves About Russia," American Engineer, 1/57; #7
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, "Trip Behind the Iron Curtain," Herald Tribune, 12/18-21/55; #878
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, "How Strong Is Russia-and How Weak?," New York Times, 6/10/56; #38
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, "Russian Artist's Training," ibid., 12/4/55; #383
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, "What Soviet Artists May Paint," ibid., 12/18/55; #1784
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, "Russia Revisited," North American Newspaper Alliance, 10/60; #1768
Russian trip 1955, article, William Benton, "Satellite Culture and Mr. Marx," Theatre Arts Magazine, 11/56; #133
Russian trip 1955, article, Lawrence M. Gould, "Education and Survival," Carleton College Bulletin, 8/58; #1051
Russian trip 1955, article, Harrison Salisbury, 6/15/58; #282A
Russian trip 1955, article, Harrison Salisbury, "To Counter Russian Propaganda," New York Times Magazine, 2/9/58; #168
Russian trip 1955, article, Dorothy Thompson, "Challenge of Soviet Education," Ladies Home Journal, 5/56; #148
Russian trip 1955, Democratic National Committee campaign publicity tips for 1958, sample release mentions Benton's trip; #1114
Russian trip 1955, editorial, "Benton Report Bares Soviet Press System," Editor and Publisher, 12/17/55; #1221
Russian trip 1955, interview, "Russian Trip and Television in the Soviet Orbit," Billboard, 12/15/55; #716
Russian trip 1955, memo, Helen Benton, 10-11/55; #772
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Budapest, U. S. Minister and other diplomats, (#8), 11/15-18/55; #334
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Budapest, film, (#9), 11/17/55; #335
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Budapest, education, (#10), 11/16/55; #336
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Budapest, theater, (#11), 11/17/55; #337
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Crimean Conference, 5/61; #1807
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, meeting with Mayor, (#14), 11/1/55; #340
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, miscellaneous topics, (#15), 11/55; #341
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, languages, (#16), 11/55; #342
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, visit to collective farm, (#20), 11/55; #346
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, higher education, (#23), 11/55; #349
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, polytechnical education, (#24), 11/2/55; #350
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, film, radio, and television, (#31), 11/1/55; #357
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, motion pictures, (#34), 11/15/55; #360
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, art and art schools, (#36), 10/12-28/55; #362
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, visit to Leningrad Library, (#44), 10/27/55; #366
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, Soviet art, (#35), 11/55; #361A
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, Moscow, education, (#21), 11/8-10/55; #347
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, U. S. Minister about Soviet propaganda and foreign relations, (#12), 11/55; #338
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, annual Kremlin reception for diplomatic corps, (#13), 11/7/55; #339
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, Swiss legation, (#17), 11/55; #343
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, party by Ethiopian ambassador, (#18-#19), 11/3/55; #344-#345
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, University of Moscow, (#22), 11/55; #348
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, education in grade schools, (#25), 11/55; #351
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, history textbooks in Russia, (#26), 11/55; #352
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, advertising in the Soviet Union, (#27), 11/55; #353
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, conversations with Pravda editors, (#28), 11/55; #354
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, conversations with Izvestia editors, (#29), 11/55; #355
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, conversations with Tass officials, (#30), 11/55; #356
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, radio and television, (#32), 11/10-11/55; #358
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, television and films, (#33), 11/10-11/55; #359
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, Deputy Minister of Culture, (#42), 11/55; #361B
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, influence of Stalin and Lenin on Soviet art, (#37), 11/55; #363A
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, Soviet culture, (#38), 11/11/55; #363B
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, The Great Soviet Encyclopedia, (#43), 11/55; #364
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, Directress of Bolshoi Ballet School, (#39), 11/55; #365A
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, Russian ballet, (#40), 11/13/55; #365B
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Kiev, cathedrals and churches, (#41), 11/55; #367
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Prague, (#1), 11/18-19/55; #327
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Prague, (#2), 11/19/55; #328
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Prague, (#3), Minister of Culture, 11/19/55; #329
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Prague, Chief of Book Publishing in Ministry of Culture, (#4), 11/19/55; #330
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Warsaw, miscellaneous topics, (#5), 11/14/55; #331
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Warsaw, miscellaneous topics, (#6), 11/13-14/55; #332
Russian trip 1955, memo, William Benton, Warsaw, dinner at U. S. Embassy, (#7), 11/55; #333
Russian trip 1955, photo, Helen Benton, 12/55; #1523
Russian trip 1955, photo, John Benton, 11/55; #1571
Russian trip 1955, photo, miscellaneous scenic shots taken by John Benton, 11/55; #1590
Russian trip 1955, photo, Bentons in Budapest, 11/55; #1579
Russian trip 1955, photo, John Benton in Russian school, 11/55; #613
Russian trip 1955, photo, Bentons in Moscow, 11/55; #1153
Russian trip 1955, photo, negatives, 11/55; #1581
Russian trip 1955, photo, Bolshoi Ballet taken by John Benton, 11/55; #1580
Russian trip 1955, photo, miscellaneous; #2049
Russian trip 1955, photo, Institute for the Study of the U.S.S.R., 4/28/56; #1460
Russian trip 1955, radio, Helen and John Benton, 11/21/55; #723
Russian trip 1955, radio, John Benton, Moscow school days, 1/17/56; #1271
Russian trip 1955, radio, John Benton, Moscow school days, 11/23/55; #18
Russian trip 1955, article, Benton, forthcoming trip and Encyclopaedia Britannica, 10/11/55; #980
Russian trip 1955, article, Benton, trip plans, 9/29/55; #1272
Russian trip 1955, article, Benton, 11/22-23/55; #178
Russian trip 1955, article, Benton, Radio-Moscow, 11/16/55; #981
Russian trip 1955, Gurewitsch Report, "Organization of Medicine in the Soviet Union," 1/7/58; #303
Russian trip 1955, speech, William Benton, "U.S.S.R.; Some Elements of Strength and Some of Weakness," Institute for the Study of the U.S.S.R., 4/28/56; #70
Russian trip 1955, speech, "Soviet Progress in Education," Council on Foreign Relations, 4/26/56; #71
Russian trip 1955, speech, "Introducing Yuri Zhukov," 2/19/69; #2219
Russian trip 1955, speech, "Introducing Yuri Zhukov," trip plans, 11/22/55; #1355
Russian trip 1955, speech, "Introducing Yuri Zhukov," upcoming trip, 9/15/55; #190
Russian trip 1962, article, Helen Benton, "Russians Never Had It So Good, But Still Under-privileged," Bridgeport Sunday Herald, 7/29/62; #1309
Russian trip 1962, article, Helen Benton, "The Evolution of a Soviet Playwright," Saturday Review, 10/27/62; #1309A
Russian trip 1962, article, John Benton, "Tour of Moscow and Tashkent and Visit to a Collective Farm," North American Newspaper Alliance, 10/7/62; #1903
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "Education in the U.S.S.R.; Cultural Exchange with the U.S.S.R.," Christian Science Monitor, 3/9/62, 3/11/62, 3/20/62; #1327
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "Soviet and American Movies; Can They Co-Exist?," 1963; #1336
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "United States and Soviet Trade Action," Christian Science Monitor, 8/25/62; #1313
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "Big Red Threat; Education," New York World Telegram and Sun, 9/10-13/62; #1311
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "Art for Nikita's Sake," North American Newspaper Alliance, 6/63; #1328
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "Crimean Conference," ibid., 6/61; #1810
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "Educational TV; A New Soviet Challenge," 1963; #1337
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "Inside the Siberian Science City," Saturday Evening Post, 12/22-29/62; #1904
Russian trip 1962, article, William Benton, "Should We Continue the Cultural Exchange with the U.S.S.R.?," Saturday Review, 10/27/62; #1312
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Chairman of State Committee of Radio and Television, 6/25/62; #1870
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Minister of Public Education, 6/25/62; #1872
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, cultural exchanges, 6/25/62; #1871
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, motion pictures, 6/30/62; #1873
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Moscow University, 6/25/62; #1874
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Mme. Khrushcheva, 7/6/62; #1876
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Deputy Premier, 7/6/62; #1877
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Sovietskaya Hotel, 6/23/62; #1879
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Chief Secretary of U.S.S.R. Academy of Science, 6/25/62; #1880
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Mme. Popova, 6/23/62; #1881
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, cultural exchanges, 6/27/62; #1882
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Simonov and son, 6/23/62; #1883
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Minister of Higher Education, 6/25/62; #1884
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, visit to art studios, 6/27/62; #1885
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, tour, 6/25/62; #1886
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Bolshoi Ballet, 6/62; #1887
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, President of Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, 6/29/62; #1888
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, editor of Ogonek, 6/28/62; #1889
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, notes, Khrushchev book, On the Communist Programme, 7/1/62; #1899
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, staff of Great Soviet Encyclopedia, 6/26/62; #1900
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, U. S.-Soviet relations, 6/27/62; #1901
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Director of U.S.S.R. Radio and Television, 6/28/62; #1902
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Novosibirsk, city square, 7/5/62; #1878
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Novosibirsk, miscellaneous topics, 7/4-5/62; #1892
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Samarkand, furs, 7/3/62; #1890
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Tashkent, officials from Institute of Transportation, 7/2/62; #1893-#1894
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Tashkent, tour of city, 7/2/62; #1895
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Tashkent, Minister of Culture for Uzbekishan, 7/3/62; #1896
Russian trip 1962, memo, William Benton, Tashkent, Minister of Education for Uzbekishan, 7/3/62; #1897
Russian trip 1962, memo, photos, 6-7/62; #1317
Russian trip 1962, memo, radio, 7/22/62; #1305
Russian trip 1964, article, Alexei Adzhubei, "America from Far and Near," Great Ideas Today, 1964; #1994
Russian trip 1964, article, Alexei Adzhubei, "Soviet Art; How Real Is Soviet Realism?," 8/64; #1991
Russian trip 1964, article, Alexei Adzhubei, "Education in the U.S.S.R.," 8/64; #1999
Russian trip 1964, article, Alexei Adzhubei, "Soviet Artists Branch Out," Christian Science Monitor, 1/7/65; #1991
Russian trip 1964, article, Alexei Adzhubei, "The Teachers and the Taught in the U.S.S.R.," Britannica Book of the Year, 1965; #2000
Russian trip 1964, article, Alexei Adzhubei, "Comments on Adzhubei Article," Great Ideas Today, 1964; #1994
Russian trip 1964, article, Alexei Adzhubei, "What Worries the Men in the Kremlin," Look, 4/20/65; #1993
Russian trip 1964, article, Alexei Adzhubei, four-article series, North American Newspaper Alliance, 8/64; #1992
Russian trip 1964, The Teachers and the Taught in the U.S.S.R., 3/66; #2080
Russian trip 1964, This Is the Challenge; #282
Russian trip 1964, Harry W. Nerhood, To Russia and Return, 1968; #2238
Russian trip 1964, George Alexander Lensen, Russia's Eastward Expansion, 1964; #1892A
Russian trip 1964, interview, "Benton's Russian Visit," Izvestia, 5/64; #1959
Russian trip 1964, memo, Charles Benton, 9/64; #2042
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Soviet-American relations, 5/18/64; #1961
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, cultural exchange, 5/20/64; #1963
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Khrushchev, 5/28/64; #1960
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, miscellaneous topics, 5/29/64; 1962
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, British Ambassador, 6/2/64; #1971
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, miscellaneous topics, 6/4/64; #1964
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, visit with head of State Committee on Publishing, 6/4/64; #1965
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, visit with head of State Committee on Publishing, medal-giving ceremony, 6/4/64; #1965A
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, editorial staff of Soviet Encyclopedia, 6/5/64; #1966
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Institute of Soviet-American Relations, 6/5/64; #1976
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Simonov, 6/5/64; #1977
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, miscellaneous topics, 6/5/64; #1967
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Communism, leadership in Russia, and Soviet goals, 6/5/64; #1968
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, senior editor of Pravda, 6/5/64; #1969
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Allen Dulles's comments on Benton's 1955 memo, 6/5/64; #1982
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Minister of Higher Education, 6/5/64; #1981
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, television appearance, 6/5/64; #1980
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, the Mamedovs, 6/5/64; #1979
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, U. S. Ambassador, 6/5/64; #1970
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, visit to dacha, 6/9/64; #1974
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, directors of Institute of Soviet-American Relations, 6/8/64; #1978
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Minister of Culture, 6/8/64; #1972
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, miscellaneous topics, 6/10/64; #1973
Russian trip 1964, memo, William Benton, Moscow, Vice President of State Committee for Cinematography, 6/10/64; #1975
Russian trip 1964, memo, Milan Herzog, 9/64; #2043
Russian trip 1964, photo, Russian intellectuals visit Benton home, 11/26/64; #2052A
Russian trip 1964, radio, 6/25-26/64; #1984
Russian trip 1964, Soviet television, 5/28/64; #1954
Sahl, Mort, and James Thurber, "State of Nation's Humor," New York Times, 12/7/58; #1101
Sandburg, Carl, book, Herbert Mitgang, Letters of Carl Sandburg, 1968; #2222
Sandburg, photo, 1942; #1418
Sandburg, photo, autographed; #1403
Sandburg, record, 1942; #1259
Schlesinger, Arthur M., A Thousand Days, 1965; #2099
Schlesinger, "Death Wish of the Democrats," The New Republic, 9/15/58; #905
Schriftgiesser, Karl, Business and Public Policy, 1967; #2178
Schriftgiesser, Committee for Economic Development, Business Comes of Age, 1/60; #1374
Senate, amendment, Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, 8/1/51; #642B
Senate, appointment, to Banking and Currency Committee, 4/3/51; #443
Senate, appointment, to Joint Committee on Library of Congress, 1/17/51; #577
Senate, appointment, as Senator, 12/17/49; #1425
Senate, appointment, to Small Business Committee, 12/5/50; #1176
Senate, appointment, Charles M. Gallagher, to Benton's Senatorial staff, 4/23/58; #380
Senate, article, Edward B. Lockett, "What Makes a Good Senator," Coronet, 10/52; #212
Senate, certificate, Senate election, 11/7/50; #1424
Senate, election law guide book, 1952; #1028
Senate, government reorganization, Ernest K. Lindley, "Frank Words on Economy," Newsweek, 3/3/52; #661
Senate, government reorganization, summary of efforts on behalf of; #314
Senate, government reorganization, Leadership Award of Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report, 6/20/52; #1468
Senate, hearings, Appropriations Committee, Appropriations Bill for 1947, 5-6/46; #690B
Senate, hearings, Atomic Energy Committee, shortage of scientific and engineering power, 4-5/56; #110
Senate, hearings, Foreign Relations Committee, U. S. Information Program-Resolution #74, part I, 11/52; #208A
Senate, hearings, Foreign Relations Committee, U. S. Information Program-Resolution #74, part II, 3/53 and 5/53; #208B
Senate, hearings, Foreign Relations Committee, review of foreign policy, part I, 2-3/58; #60
Senate, hearings, Government Operations Committee, government security, 3/55; #986
Senate, hearings, Government Operations Committee, National Defense Education Act, 6/58; #1377. See also National Defense Education Act.
Senate, hearings, Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, use of television frequencies for educational purposes-Resolution #127, 5/31/51; #689A
Senate, hearings, Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, establishment of Citizen's Advisory Board on radio and television, volume I, 9/51; #506
Senate, hearings, Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, establishment of Citizen's Advisory Board on radio and television, volume II, 9/51; #506A
Senate, hearings, Judiciary Committee, nomination of President and Vice President, 3-4/55; #1098
Senate, hearings, Labor and Public Welfare Committee, establishment of Commission on Ethics in Government-Resolution #21, 6-7/51; #483
Senate, hearings, Labor and Public Welfare Committee, limitation on debate in Senate, amendment of Rule XXII, 10/2-23/51; #1111
Senate, Benton interview, Russian press in the United States, 8/13/50; #1865
Senate, letter, Benton to Connecticut constituents, Universal Military Training Act, 3/28/51; #798
Senate, letter, Walter E. Cosgriff to Benton, support via campaign contribution for government reorganization, 7/3/52; #1034
Senate, letter, Justice Department to Benton, ownership of land under island waters and the marginal sea, 8/9/51; #822
Senate, letter, Jack McFall to Benton, Archbishop Grosz of Hungary, 7/5/51; #976
Senate, letter, James W. Murphy to Benton, 7/19/51; #1543
Senate, letter, S. Abbot Smith to Benton on problems of small business, 8/8/50; #698
Senate, letter, State Department to Benton, Bishop Padewski and Polish National Catholic Church, 1/25/51; #874
Senate, Marshall Plan of Ideas. See Marshall Plan of Ideas.
Senate, photo, Boys Nation, 1950; #1577
Senate, photo, Congressional luncheon, 1950; #1573
Senate, photo, 1950; #1576
Senate, photo, Barkley greets new Senators, 1/3/50; #1531
Senate, photo, Girls Nation, 1951; #1572
Senate, photo, miscellaneous for Senate years, 1950-1952; #1443
Senate, photo, Congressional radio room, 5/52; #1480
Senate, press conference, "Benton Amendment to the Mutual Security Act," 11/16/51; #452
Senate, radio, "Foreign Policy," 1950; #583
Senate, radio, "Domestic Policy," 10/24/50; #628
Senate, radio, "Immigration Laws and Connecticut Responsibility," 1950; #916
Senate, radio, "Congress's Record; Current Session"; #921
Senate, radio, "Legislative Accomplishments of Second Session of 81st Congress," 1950; #922
Senate, radio, "Immigration Legislation," 3/8/50; #964
Senate, radio, "Letters from Constituents," 3/9/50; #920
Senate, radio, "Current Issues in Washington," 3/26/50; #1121
Senate, radio, "Tidelands Oil Bill," 3/27/50; #965
Senate, radio, "Small Business," 4/5/50; #929
Senate, radio, "Small Business," 4/10/50; #854
Senate, radio, "Economy in Government," 4/19/50; #657
Senate, radio, "Substitute Displaced Persons Act," 5/15/50; #961
Senate, radio, "ECA," 5/17/50; #923
Senate, radio, "Control over Prices, Wages, and Materials; Defense Production," 6/27/50; #912
Senate, radio, "Government Reorganization," 2/25/51; #927
Senate, radio, "Government Reorganization; Letters from Constituents," 3/24/51; #930
Senate, radio, "Women in Politics," 5/19/51; #960
Senate, radio, "Aid to India," 6/11/51; #1043
Senate, radio, "Defense Production Act; Emergency Economic Controls," 6/13/51; #1140
Senate, radio, "Defense Production Act; Emergency Economic Controls," 7/9/51; #1139
Senate, radio, "Emergency Economic Controls," 7/17/51; #1134
Senate, radio, "Emergency Economic Controls," 7/11/51; #1141
Senate, radio, "Letters from Constituents," 8/6/51; #931
Senate, radio, "Government Reorganization," 9/3/51; #918
Senate, radio, "Benton Amendment to Mutual Security Act and Monopolistic Nature of European Economy," 9/19/51; #1126
Senate, radio, "Record of First Session of 82nd Congress," 10/22/51; #1130
Senate, radio, "Achievements of First Session of 82nd Congress," 10/24/51; #1131
Senate, radio, "Congress; Its Coming Issues," 2/17/52; #967
Senate, radio, "Government Reorganization; Hoover Proposals," 2/20/52; #900
Senate, radio, "Government Reorganization; Internal Revenue Department," 3/13/52; #1137
Senate, radio, "Government Reorganization," 3/23/52; #963
Senate, radio, "National Budget Versus Connecticut's Needs," 3/23/52; #899
Senate, radio, "Defense Production Act; Defense Against Inflation," 4/7/52; #1181
Senate, radio, "Economy through Government Reorganization," 4/10/52; #881
Senate, radio, "Copper Shortage in Connecticut and Immigration," 5/26/52; #959
Senate, radio, "Foreign Aid," 5/29/52; #957
Senate, radio, "Mutual Security Program," 6/2/52; #956
Senate, radio, "Summary of 2nd Session of the 82nd Congress," 6/9/52; #955
Senate, report, Expenditures Committee, Benton's views on reorganization in Department of Commerce, 5/16/50; #1046
Senate, report, Expenditures Committee, reorganization of Interstate Commerce Commission, plan #7, 3/29/50; #1125
Senate, report, Expenditures Committee, reorganization of Treasury Department, 4/25/50; #1045
Senate, report, Foreign Relations Committee, U. S. Information Program-Resolutions #74 and #44, 6/53; #208C-#208E
Senate, report, Foreign Relations Committee, Information Program of Great Britain, 11/17/52; #1097
Senate, report, Foreign Relations Committee, Soviet propaganda program, 11/17/52; #1096
Senate, report, Labor and Public Welfare Committee, ethical standards in government, 6-7/51; #483A
Senate, report, Select Committee on Small Business, small business, 1/52; #481
Senate, report, limitation on Senate debate-amendment of Rule XXII, 2/25/52; #1111A
Senate, report, Small Business Committee, 1/4/50; #1219
Senate, report, Small Business Committee, 1/8/51; #1223
Senate, speech, "Voice of America," 10/30/45; #662
Senate, speech, "MacArthur's Dismissal," Chamber of Commerce of Middletown, 5/7/52; #1119
Senate, speech, "Senate; Responsibilities of a Senator," Hartford Businessmen's Club, 12/30/49; #834
Senate, speech, Benton's views on constitutional powers of executive opposed to Taft's views, 1950; #693
Senate, speech, "Government Reorganization," League of Women Voters 1/20/50; #700
Senate, speech, "Continuation of Rent Control," 3/13/50; #1773
Senate, speech, "Marshall Plan of Ideas," 3/22/50; #151
Senate, speech, "Beach Erosion; Control of Connecticut Shoreline," 4/14/50; #735
Senate, speech, "ECA Program Support," 5/4/50; #535
Senate, speech, "Small Business; Heart of American Free Enterprise System," Connecticut Junior Chamber of Commerce, 5/7/50; #989
Senate, speech, "In Support of Fair Employment Practice Act," 5/9/50; #445
Senate, speech, "Hoover Government Reorganization Plans #1, #7, #12," 5/22/50; #626
Senate, speech, "How To Raise Real Wages," 6/19/50; #629
Senate, speech, "Social Security Amendments; Aid to Dependent Children," 6/19/50; #635
Senate, speech, "Accomplishments in Italy under Marshall Plan," 6/23/50; #531
Senate, speech, "Voice to the World," 7/19/50; #504
Senate, speech, "Opposition to Budget Cuts in Voice of America Program," 8/23/51; #765
Senate, speech, appointment of Lt. Gen. Walter Bedell Smith as Director of Central Intelligence, 8/29/50; #409
Senate, speech, "Tribute to Poland," 9/1/50; #505
Senate, speech, "Establishment of United Nations Information Center in Tokyo for Korean War Communications," 9/5/50; #524
Senate, speech, "Defense Housing," 9/13/50; #1395
Senate, speech, "Truman Point Four Program," Rotary Club, 9/26/50; #522
Senate, speech, "Admission of Italy into Full Membership of United Nations," 11/4/50; #426
Senate, speech, "In Praise of Anna Rosenberg," 12/21/50; #575
Senate, speech, "Tribute to Eric Johnston and Charles Wilson," 1/29/51; #541
Senate, speech, "How We Can Win the Peace by Improving the Voice of America," 2/19/51; #474
Senate, speech, "In Defense of Dean Acheson," 3/15/51; #448
Senate, speech, "In Defense of Dean Acheson," 9/13/51; #448A
Senate, speech, "Communism in Unions and in Business as a Danger," Connecticut Federation of Labor, 9/13/51; #1149
Senate, speech, "Constitutional Powers of the President and the Bricker Amendment," 3/22/51; #469
Senate, speech, "Defense Housing," 4/9/51; #828
Senate, speech, exploration of impact of television on various aspects of American life, 4/13/51; #574
Senate, speech, "MacArthur," 4/18 & 23/51; #567
Senate, speech, "MacArthur," 5/8/51; #500
Senate, speech, "Tribute to Pat Sullivan," 5/5/51; #1909
Senate, speech, "State Television Networks to Aid Education," 5/15/51; #683
Senate, speech, "Operating Efficiency of the Senate," 6/6/51; #660
Senate, speech, "Defense Production Act; A Pandora's BOX," 6/23/51; #829
Senate, speech, "Defense Production Act," 6/30/51; #831
Senate, speech, "Federal Aid to Medical Education Bill," 6/26/51; #650
Senate, speech, West Haven Democratic Town Committee, 8/51; #1866
Senate, speech, "Basing Point Bill," 8/2/51; #728
Senate, speech, "Restoration of Citizenship Rights to Italian-Americans Who Voted in Italian Elections," 8/6/51; #563
Senate, speech, "West Point Football Scandal," 8/7/51; #439
Senate, speech, "Proposed Citizen's Advisory Board for Radio and Television," 8/13/51; #642A
Senate, speech, "Proposed Citizen's Advisory Board for Radio and Television," 10/20/51; #642
Senate, speech, "Reconstruction Finance Corporation; Views of Minority Report," 8/20/51; #638
Senate, speech, "Economic Aid to the Middle East," 8/30/51; #1124
Senate, speech, "Benton Amendment to the Mutual Security Act," 8/31/51; #1052
Senate, speech, "Parcel Post Regulations Amendment," 9/6/51; #653
Senate, speech, "A Tribute to Dean Acheson," 9/14/51; #475
Senate, speech, "Cloture; Limitation of Debate," 10/51; #449
Senate, speech, "Emergency Professional Health Training Act of 1951; Shortage of Medical Personnel and Facilities," 10/3/51; #565
Senate, speech, releasing government information, 10/3/51; #722
Senate, speech, "Advocating the Fair Employment Practices Commission and Rule XXII," 10/28/51; #764
Senate, speech, "Benton Amendment to the Mutual Security Act and Foreign Aid," Anglo-American Press Association, 11/7/51; #457
Senate, speech, "New U. S. Mutual Security Act and Tribute," National Productivity Committee, 11/28/51; #451
Senate, speech, "Domestic Economy," Norwich Chamber of Commerce, 1/28/52; #432
Senate, speech, "Congress vs. Good Government," Second National Convention of Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report, 2/18/52; #234
Senate, speech, "Government Reorganization," 3/12/52; #655
Senate, speech, "Postal Workers' Legislation," Postal Workers' Convention, 4/26/52; #230
Senate, speech, "Communist Influences in Union of Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers in Connecticut," 4/28/52; #699
Senate, speech, "Introducing a Resolution to Establish a Temporary Advisory Commission on the Senate's Rules," 5/9/52; #714
Senate, speech, "Postal Workers' Legislation," Connecticut Association of Letter Carriers, 5/17/52; #229
Senate, speech, "Italian Elections and Aid to Italy," 5/22/52; #458
Senate, speech, "Economy and Efficiency in the Federal Government," Combined Service Clubs of Meriden, 5/22/52; #226
Senate, speech, "McCarran Immigration Act," AHEPA Initiation, 5/25/52; #293
Senate, speech, "Efficiency in Government," 5/26/52; #225
Senate, speech, "Benton Amendment," 5/28/52; #757
Senate, speech, "America's Immigration Curtain," 5-6/52; #562
Senate, speech, "Past, Present, and Future of Poland," Polish Constitution Day, 5/18/52; #227
Senate, speech, "Economy in Government," Stratford Chamber of Commerce, 5/29/52; #185
Senate, speech, greeting, Polish-American Newspaper Groups convention, 5/31/52; #296
Senate, speech, "Tribute to the Armenian People," Armenian Independence Day, 6/1/52; #944
Senate, speech, "Wanted; Immediate Action to Organize a Second Hoover Commission," 6/5/52; #1237
Senate, speech, "McCarran Immigration Act and F.E.P.C.," Liberal Party Dinner, 6/11/52; #283
Senate, speech, "Introduction to Benton Amendment," 6/52; #758
Senate, speech, "Benton Amendment to the Mutual Security Act," 6/20/52; #573
Senate, speech, "Veterans' Legislation," Veterans of Foreign Wars Connecticut Convention, 6/21/52; #217
Senate, speech, "Communist Threat," Legion of Polish Veterans, 6/22/52; #216
Senate, speech, "Support of Truman's Veto of McCarran Immigration Bill," 6/25/52; #437
Senate, speech, "Katyn Forest Massacre by Soviets," 7/2/52; #405
Senate, speech, "Work Ukrainian Congress of America Is Doing Against Communism," 7/5/52; #241
Senate, speech, "Inequities of McCarran Act," Rhode Island Democrats, 9/7/52; #438
Senate, speech, "Veterans Legislation," American Legion Convention, 8/7/52; #214
Senate, statement, report on the West Haven Veterans Administration; #1308
Senate, statement, McCarran Immigration Act, 1950; #1397
Senate, statement, mail service to Connecticut military personnel in Italy to be improved, 1950; #908
Senate, statement, substitute Displaced Persons Act, 2/27/50; #665
Senate, statement, continuation of rent controls, 3/9/50; #704
Senate, statement, urging passage of F.E.P.C. Bill, 5/9/50; #1017
Senate, statement, creation of New England-New York resources, 6/6/50; #718
Senate, statement, plea for support of President's message on Korea and possible need for price controls, 7/19/50; #947
Senate, statement, small business clinics to be held in New Haven and Hartford, 7/24/50; #1146
Senate, statement, budget slash as proposed in Benton-Douglas Amendment to implement the Hoover proposals, 8/1/50; #1014
Senate, statement, reason for call to duty of 43rd Division, 8/1/50; #1013
Senate, statement, Spanish loan, 8/18/50; #498
Senate, statement, eleventh anniversary of Nazi invasion of Poland, 9/1/50; #1785
Senate, statement, defense housing shortage, 9/12/50; #410
Senate, statement, Benton plans to ask Congress to approve an additional $300,000,000 appropriation, 9/14/50; #1113
Senate, statement, New England's fuel supplies and needs of small business, 9/21/50; #1185
Senate, statement, New England fuel shortage, 10/50; #656
Senate, statement, Korea and Operation Truth, 10/10/50; #1095
Senate, statement, vote against special bonus for postal workers, 10/20/50; #715
Senate, statement, Campaign of Truth, 10/25/50; #151G
Senate, statement, Czechoslovakia's Independence Day, 10/28/50; #462
Senate, statement, Saint Lawrence Seaway Resolution, 2/1/51; #694
Senate, statement, "Voice of America Has a Frog in its Throat," 2/9/51; #767
Senate, statement, India Emergency Food Act of 1951 and authorization of food appropriation for India, 2/15/51; #477
Senate, statement, Small Business Committee to draft policy's harmful effect on small business firms, 2/26/51; #1021
Senate, statement, Benton files one-man minority report to dissent from majority vote on cloture, 3/6/51; #793
Senate, statement, need for public support for government reorganization, 3/16/51; #666
Senate, statement, opposing Kerr Bill, 3/17/51; #870
Senate, statement, Joint Economic Report calls for crusade against inflation, 4/2/51; #607
Senate, statement, Voice of America fund slash, 4/4/51; #463
Senate, statement, praise for Truman for his leadership in firing MacArthur, 4/11/51; #500A
Senate, statement, small business clinics in Connecticut, 4/16/51; #701
Senate, statement, urgent need for extension of Defense Production Act, 6/27/51; #1025
Senate, statement, Benton-Wiley resolution to operate Voice of America, as independent agency, 6/28/51; #1396
Senate, statement, report on New England economy prepared by Council of Economic Advisers, 7/2/51; #1168
Senate, statement, Benton hails U. S. decision to reject U. N. Convention on Freedom of Information, 8/15/51; #821
Senate, statement, explanation of vote against extending Sugar Act of 1948, 8/22/51; #1063
Senate, statement, effect of mobilization on small manufacturers in Connecticut, 8/23/51; #780
Senate, statement, Civil Defense inadequacies, 10/4/51; #805
Senate, statement, Benton exchange with Wilbert Snow about football, 10/27/51; #1024
Senate, statement, revision of international Information Program, 1/18/52; #538
Senate, statement, protest against rent increase in public housing, 1/19/52; #1019
Senate, statement, Wherry rule on cloture ineffective, 1/29/52; #754
Senate, statement, Connecticut Chamber of Commerce budget, 2/14/52; #1030
Senate, statement, offshore oil royalties for defense and educational needs, 3/23/52; #822A
Senate, statement, tribute to Brien McMahon on his candidacy for reelection, 4/2/52; #1099
Senate, statement, Connecticut's three television channels, 4/19/52; #946
Senate, statement, Benton's offer of assistance with Connecticut's television channels, 5/11/52; #1178
Senate, statement, explanation of dissenting vote on Dirksen-Bricker Amendment, 5/29/52; #1036
Senate, statement, streamlining Senate's standing rules, 6/12/52; #714A
Senate, statement, white pine blister rust in Connecticut, 6/16/52; #1211
Senate, statement, Small Business Committee Report, 6/30/52; #945
Senate, statement, postwar German climate as reported by U. S. Commissioner Donnelly, 9/14/52; #509
Senate, statement, protest against cutback in facilities at Newington Hospital, 9/17/52; #508
Senate, statement, USS Connecticut moved from Washington to Hartford, 9/20/52; #618
Senate, statement, Truman's proposed budget justified in terms of defense cost, 10/52; #1783
Senate, statement, opposition to government controlled medical and health services, 10/26/52; #879
Senate, statement, Benton questions equity of rental increases in public housing, 11/14/52; #1070
Senate, statement, "Freedom of Enterprise and the Hoover Proposals Should Be the Concern of Every Business Man," Bridgeport Chamber of Commerce, 5/1/52; #1018
Senate, television, "ECA; Its Effect on Italy," 1950; #932
Senate, television, "Defense Production Act," 6/30/51; #914
Senate, television, "On Trial; Should Controls over Prices, Wages, and Materials Be Continued?," 7/2/51; #909
Senate, Benton testimony, budget needs of Information Program, 5/8/46; #690
Senate, Benton testimony, Armed Service Committee, 1/28/58; #153
Senate, Benton testimony, "Soviet Challenge; Science and Technology," 5/1/56; #42
Senate, Benton testimony, Defense Production Act a Pandora's BOX, 6/23/51; #829
Senate, Benton testimony, urges extension of rent control, 4/25/50; #1015
Senate, Benton testimony, campaign finances, 1/13/57; #118
Senate, Benton testimony, morality in government, 6/19/51; #627
Senate, Benton testimony, campaign finances and Corrupt Practices Act, 9/14/51; #611
Senate, Benton testimony, strengthening reciprocal trade agreements, 6/1/46; #710
Senate, Benton testimony, Foreign Relations Committee, 7/17/46; #985
Senate, Benton testimony, importance of reaching Russian people, 2/17/58; #68
Senate, Benton testimony, information and propaganda, 4/20/53; #208
Senate, Benton testimony, Thomas Bill as basic authority for information and cultural exchange program, 7/17/46; #968
Senate, Benton testimony, supports compulsory F.E.P.C. legislation, 5/6/52; #1016
Senate, Benton testimony, need for exploration in field of subscription television and broadcasting, 9/5/51; #689
Senate, Benton testimony, "Toward a More Prosperous New England," 6/29/50; #696
Senate, Benton testimony, small business taxation, 3/13/52; #596
Senate, Benton testimony, need for exploration of field of subscription broadcasting and television, 5/31/51; #689A
Senate, Benton testimony, Ten Commandments for Congress, 7/19/51; #627
Senate, tribute, Greek independence anniversary day, 3/25/51; #487
Senate, voting record, 1/3/50-8/9/50; #1103
Shuster, George, The Ground I Walk On, 1961; #1860
Shuster, UNESCO; Assessment and Promise, 1963; #1348
Slichter, Sumner, "Passing of Keynesian Economics," Atlantic Monthly, 11/57; #146
Smith, Walter Bedell, Benton testimonial on Information Program, House of Representatives, 6/6/47; #1202
Smith, Senate testimony, Marshall Plan of Ideas, 7/50; #882
Smith, deposition, McCarthy lawsuit, 9/29/52; #1850
Smith, Benton speech, Smith's appointment as Director of Central Intelligence, 8/29/50; #409
Smith-Mundt Act, photo, Eisenhower testifies in favor, 5/20/47; #1488
Smith-Mundt Act, press conference, reorganization of Office of International Information and Cultural Affairs, 7/31/47; #796
Smith-Mundt Act, Resolution #3342, 5/6/47; #1193
Smith, Page, Daughters of the Promised Land, 1970; #2274
Smith, Richard A., "Ceiling on Selling," Fortune, 8/58; #368
Snow, Wilbert, appointed as campaign chairman for Benton's re-election, 9/26/52; #599
Snow, Benton exchange of correspondence regarding football, 10/27/51; #1024
Snow, television, Benton's qualifications in 1952 campaign, 10/24/52; #939
State Department, appreciation for Benton's wartime service, CIAA, 1940-1944; #1430
State Department, appreciation for Benton's wartime service, Information Program, 6/6/47; #1202
State Department, appreciation for Benton's wartime service, Distinguished Honor Award, 12/7/67; #2173
State Department, article, Frederick Lewis Allen, "Must We Tell the World?," Harper's, 12/45; #1077
State Department, Benton article, "Let's Speak Up," American Legion Magazine, 5/46; #734
State Department, Benton article, "United States Mission Reports on Education in Germany," American Teacher, 2/47; #853
State Department, Benton article, "Information Program and UNESCO; Way to International Peace," Coronet, 1948; #1254
State Department, Benton article, "This Can Stop Russia," ibid., 10/50; #497
State Department, Benton article, "Our International Information Services," Democratic Digest, 11/46; #823
State Department, Benton article, "We'll Tell the World," Everybody's Weekly, 4/14/46; #264
State Department, Benton article, "Understanding Is Also a Force," General Federation of Women's Clubs Bulletin, 1946; #885
State Department, Benton article, "As Others See Us," New York Times; #998
State Department, Benton article, "Five Ways to Breach the Iron Curtain," New York Times Magazine, 3/16/58; #68C
State Department, Benton article, "Self-Portrait by Uncle Sam," ibid., 12/2/45; #265
State Department, Benton article, "Uncle Sam Tells the World," Senior Scholastic, 2/18/46; #888
State Department, Benton article, "A New Kind of Diplomat," This Week Magazine, 3/3/46; #262
State Department, Benton article, "Major Tasks for Schools in 1947," Virginia Journal of Education, 3/47; #1196
State Department, Benton article, "Good Manners Are Vital Abroad," Washington Star, 6/47; #1197
State Department, Benton article, "Voice of America Around the World," World Week, 2/18/46; #887
State Department, Benton article, Joan David, "Mr. Benton's Proposal that Information Program Be Transferred from the State Department to an Independent Agency," American Foreign Service Journal, 4/51; #464
State Department, Benton article, Robert J. Donovan, "Where Are They Now?," Herald Tribune, 1948; #1442
State Department, Benton article, Henry James, Jr., "Role of the Information Library in the U. S. International Information Program," Library Quarterly, 4/23/53; #459
State Department, award to Benton for distinguished contributions to international relations, New York Federation of Women's Clubs, 10/27/50; #454A
State Department, Benton discussion, permanent organization for U. S. short wave broadcasting, 1/9/46; #1217
State Department, "Do We Make Ourselves Clear?," quotations from observers who have studied Information Program; #609
State Department, editorial, "State Department Press Disputes," Christian Science Monitor, 1/16/46; #640-640A
State Department, editorial, "Dangers to Press Freedom," Fortune, 4/47; #1091
State Department, editorial, "Press Disputes; Private Press Associations Versus State Department," Newsweek, 1/28/46; #1082
State Department, editorial, "Effective Information Program Must Speak Abroad in Languages that Will Be Understood," Parade, 1/18/48; #974
State Department, editorial, "Cancellation of News Service for Government Purposes," Saint Louis Post Dispatch, 1/29/46; #951
State Department, foreign affairs background summary, "America; A Full and Fair Picture," 6/46; #1198
State Department, foreign affairs background summary, "International Broadcasting," 2/47; #1199
State Department, foreign affairs background summary, "Organization of Office of Information and Cultural Relations Program," 1/47; #1157
State Department, chronology and supporting documents, International Radio Foundation, 5/3/49; #783
State Department, letter, Richard Balch to New York Times, suggesting Benton for Secretary of State, unpublished, 10/24/60; #1749
State Department, Benton letter, to Dean Acheson, budget needs of Information Program, 5/16/46; #690A
State Department, Benton letter, to Dean Acheson, revising Voice of America program, 1/31/51; #536
State Department, Benton letter, to David Bruce, report on luncheon with Prime Minister Harold Wilson, 4/29/67; #2147
State Department, Benton letter, to James Byrnes, 14 Point Program for Secretary of State Byrnes, 2/6/47; #1166
State Department, Benton letter, to James Byrnes, international broadcasting and role of State Department, 1/4/47; #913
State Department, Benton letter, to James Byrnes, organization of international broadcasting by U. S., 11/3/46; #906
State Department, Benton letter, to James Byrnes, education mission to Germany, 9/46; #542A
State Department, Benton letter, to Kent Cooper, press disputes with State Department, 6/13/47; #794
State Department, Benton letter, to editor of New York Times, book ban protested, 6/28/53; #254
State Department, Benton letter, to editor of New York Times, federal security and Information Program, 11/5/55; #1789
State Department, Benton letter, to editor of New York Times, summit conference on Middle East and for expanded Information Program, 8/10/58; #759
State Department, Benton letter, to Luther Evans, Russian propaganda and distortions of history, 12/1/55; #131
State Department, Benton letter, to Kenneth McKellar, Voice of America fund slash, 4/17/51; #1039
State Department, Benton letter, to Kenneth McKellar, Voice of America budget needs, 9/2/51; #523
State Department, Benton letter, to Robert McLean, press disputes versus State Department, 1/17/46; #1155
State Department, Benton letter, to George Marshall, resignation as Assistant Secretary of State, 9/3/47; #370
State Department, Benton letter, to State Department members, Associated Press public statement and Benton's reply, 1/17/46; #1085
State Department, Benton letter, Byrnes to Truman, budget needs for Information Program, 12/31/45; #571
State Department, Benton letter, Mark Etheridge to Benton, Information Program, 7/3/50; #510
State Department, Benton letter, Marshall to Benton, acceptance of resignation, 9/22/47; #370
State Department, Benton letter, William Nichols to Benton, suggestions for improving Information Program, 7/16/46; #978
State Department, Benton letter, Russian writers to Benton, State Department visit, 7/12/46; #826
State Department, organization chart, 1947; #543
State Department, organization manual, 3/47; #1158
State Department, pamphlet, "How To Pierce the Iron Curtain," unpublished, 1959-1960; #1227
State Department, photos, 1945-1947; #1532
State Department, photos, CIAA Conference on War and Peace, 2/45; #1503
State Department, photos, presentation of Distinguished Honor Award to Benton, 12/7/67; #2173A
State Department, photos, farewell party for Benton, 10/1/47; #1501
State Department, photos, Herblock, "We Ain't Giving No Information to No Foreigners"; #1454
State Department, photos, Information Program fund hearings in Congress, 1946; #1574
State Department, photos, James Byrnes, autographed; #1406
State Department, press conference, "Associated Press Versus State Department and Role in International Broadcasting," 1/18/46; #877
State Department, press conference, "Cultural Affairs Division; Its Organization," 7/31/47; #904
State Department, press conference, "Information Program," 12/28/45; #251
State Department, press conference, "Fulbright Act," 7/17/47; #785
State Department, press conference, "Motion Picture Industry's Role in the Information Program," 3/20/46; #768
State Department, press conference, "Office of International Information and Cultural Affairs; Its Reorganization," 7/31/47; #796
State Department, press conference, "Press Introduction of Benton as New Under Secretary of State," 9/17/45; #420
State Department, press conference, "Press, Radio, and Movie People on ECO," 10/2/46; #797
State Department, press conference, "UNESCO's Role in International Broadcasting," 9/24/46; #1788
State Department, press conference, Clare Booth Luce, "Information Program and the State Department," 9/11/45; #1220
State Department, radio, "Adventures in Science," 5/10/47; #770
State Department, radio, "Free Parliaments in Free Societies," 4/56; #1100
State Department, radio, "Do We Need a New Foreign Policy?," 7/8/50; #1064
State Department, radio, "What Freedom of Information Means to You," 2/5/50; #554
State Department, radio, "Can We Defeat the Propaganda of International Communism?," 8/20/50; #553
State Department, radio, "Conference on Freedom of Information," 5/5/48; #809
State Department, radio, "Foreign Aid," 3/30/50; #915
State Department, radio, "Our Foreign Policy," 10/17/50; #456
State Department, radio, "Campaign of Truth; Russia Versus the Free World," 10/31/50; #490
State Department, radio, "Soviet Challenge," 2/12/59; #1261
State Department, radio, "Foreign Policy," 3/2/51; #470
State Department, radio, "Uncle Sam Speaks; German Re-Education," 11/4/46; #847
State Department, radio, "Khrushchev Visit and Congressional Awards," 9/13/59; #1282
State Department, radio, "International Understanding," 1/7/46; #777
State Department, radio, "People's Job in UNESCO," 9/25/46; #1061
State Department, radio, "America; As Others See Us," 1/3/46; #551
State Department, radio, "Can UNESCO Help To Prevent a Third World War?," 11/9/46; #999
State Department, radio, "Freedom of the Press World Wide," 1/26/46; #440
State Department, radio, "National Intelligence Program," 12/22/45; #841
State Department, radio, "Our International Information Program and the Significance of the Bloom Bill," 12/14/45; #586
State Department, radio, "Post-War Jobs; Responsibility of Business," 11/15/43; #843
State Department, radio, "What other People Think of Us," 3/8/47; #544
State Department, radio, inaugural broadcast of Voice of America to Greece, 5/14/47; #1201
State Department, radio, inauguration of relay station in Manila; #817
State Department, radio, Voice of America broadcasts presentation of Encyclopaedia Britannica to German newspapers, 7/19/48; #1352
State Department, report, "Press Disputes; Wire Services Versus State Department," American Society of Newspaper Editors, 10/1/46; #1200
State Department, report, "Mass Media and UNESCO," 9/20/46; #679A
State Department, report, "Outline of Art Project Controversy," 7/46; #1066
State Department, report, "Postwar International Information Program of the U. S.," 1945; #761
State Department, report, "U. S. Education Commission to Germany," 9/46; #542
State Department, report, "U. S. Education Commission to Japan," 3/30/46; #835
State Department, report, "Summary of 2nd General UNESCO Conference," 12/22/47; #1156
State Department, report, "First General UNESCO Conference," 12/46; #1165
State Department, report, "Information Service International and Its Merger into the State Department," 12/27/46; #1074
State Department, report, "Press Disputes," 2/5/46; #950
State Department, report, Harold Stein on Foreign Service Act and Benton's role in passage; #1610
State Department, speech, "Ideas in World Politics," Advertising Federation, 6/15/48; #271
State Department, speech, "International Understanding; An Undeveloped Human Resource," American Association of School Administrators, 3/3/47; #604
State Department, speech, "Decent Respect to the Opinions of Mankind," American Club, 12/6/46; #482
State Department, speech, "UNESCO's Goal," American Club of Paris, 12/6/46; #482
State Department, speech, "Art and Cultural Exchange," American Federation of Arts, 5/16/46; #747
State Department, speech, "New Instrument for U. S. Foreign Policy," American Hospital Association," 10/1/46; #605
State Department, speech, "Can American Afford To Be Silent?," American Platform Guild, 1/3/46; #413
State Department, speech, "Understanding Is Also a Force," American Public Relations Association, 3/29/46; #972
State Department, speech, "Information Program; State Department's Philosophy," American Society of Newspaper Editors; #804
State Department, speech, "Revision of State Department's Procedures for Handling the News," American Society of Newspaper Editors, 4/18/46; #540
State Department, speech, "Information Program for the U. S.," American Veterans Committee, 5/16/46; #901
State Department, speech, "International Understanding; A Mission for All of Us," Associated Church Press, 4/24/46; #539
State Department, speech, "Geneva Conference Thus Far," Anglo-American Press Association, 4/7/48; #450
State Department, speech, "Information Program," Association of Women Broadcasters, 6/23/47; #1105
State Department, speech, "Ideas and International Understanding," Audio-Visual Association of Southern California, 10/29/48; #743
State Department, speech, "Role as Assistant Secretary of State," Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 11/27/45; #1618
State Department, speech, "Ideas as a Path to Peace," Chicago Council on Foreign Affairs, 1/17/49; #726
State Department, speech, "UNESCO's Role in Mass Communications," Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, 9/12/47; #1786
State Department, speech, Committee for Economic Development, 5/20/48; #622
State Department, speech, "CED in the Postwar World; New Relationship between Businessmen and Politicians and Implications of Russian Propaganda," 5/11/49; #1055
State Department, speech, "Educational Radio," Conference on High School Principals, 3/27/41; #688
State Department, speech, "International Freedom of Information," Connecticut Editorial Association, 2/4/50; #527
State Department, speech, "Foreign Policy," Connecticut Education Association, 10/26/51; #471
State Department, speech, "Soviet Economic Challenge," Economic Club of Chicago, 4/8/59; #1262
State Department, speech, "Duel for Men's Minds," Foreign Policy Conference, 7/14/55; #165
State Department, speech, "American Position on International News and International Libel," Foreign Press Association, 3/19/47; #592
State Department, speech, "Design for Survival," Industrial Designer's Institute, 10/10/58; #988
State Department, speech, "Freedom of Information; The Role of the State Department," Inland Daily Press Association, 2/11/47; #484
State Department, speech, "Equal Opportunity on World's Air Waves," International High Frequency Broadcasting Conference, 8/15/47; #412
State Department, speech, "International House; A Symbol for Today," International House, 11/7/46; #897
State Department, speech, "Information Program and Cultural Exchange," 3/6/46; #883
State Department, speech, "New Tools for International Understanding," Los Angeles Town Hall, 2/24/48; #547
State Department, speech, "Role of Ideas in World Politics," Milwaukee Torch Ad Club, 9/48; #37
State Department, speech, "Understanding Among Peoples," Motion Picture Industry, 3/6/46; #883
State Department, speech, "Greetings from Assistant Secretary of State," UNESCO, 9/25/46; #1787
State Department, speech, "Information Program," UNESCO Mass Media Meeting, 12/13/45; #584
State Department, speech, "Our Foreign Policy and UNESCO," 4/16/51; #1094
State Department, speech, "Information Program," New York Federation of Women's Clubs, 10/27/50; #454
State Department, speech, "Voice of America Abroad," New York Herald Tribune Forum, 10/30/45; #721
State Department, speech, "Freedom of the Press and Responsibilities of the Press," New York Newspaperwomen's Club, 3/31/46; #550
State Department, speech, "Summit Conference," Overseas Club, 3/6/58; #250
State Department, speech, "Education for Peace," Phi Beta Kappa Association of Southern California, 2/20/48; #740
State Department, speech, "Republican Misrepresentation of Yalta Agreement," Polish-American groups, 10/19/50; #717
State Department, speech, "United States Program for Polish People," Polish Falcons National Convention, 7/5/52; #215
State Department, speech, "Information Program," Public Affairs Program of State Department, 11/4/46; #902
State Department, speech, "Public Opinion and World Affairs," Public Opinion Research Conference, 9/2/47; #840
State Department, speech, "Revision of Our State Department," Rockville Young Democrats, no text, 2/27/58; #243
State Department, speech, "Soviet Propaganda," Rotary Club of Fairfield, no text, 4/16/57; #73
State Department, speech, Senate speeches. See Senate.
State Department, speech, "Cultural Foundations of the Peace," State Department, 6/5/47; #889
State Department, speech, "New International Frontier," Sunday Evening Forum, 2/20/49; #749
State Department, speech, "Information Program and Cultural Exchange," Teachers College of Connecticut; #720
State Department, speech, UNESCO speeches. See UNESCO.
State Department, speech, "Word Is Freedom," U. N. Conference on Freedom of Information, 3/25/48; #528
State Department, speech, "Korea," VASA First District Convention, 9/30/50; #499
State Department, speech, "U. N. Conference on Freedom of Information," Voice of America presentation ceremony, 7/19/44; #766
State Department, speech, "Party Responsibilities," West Haven Federated Democratic Women's Club, 9/28/50; #427
State Department, speech, "Korean War and Voice of America," Windham County Democratic Association, 7/19/50; #502
State Department, speech, "National Defense and National Reputation," Women's Patriotic Conference on National Defense, 1/25/47; #636
State Department, speech, "Comments on UNESCO's Draft Constitution," 10/1/45; #1471A
State Department, speech, "Meeting of Organizations," 9/24/45; #403
State Department, speech, "American Veterans' Committee," open forum on International Information and Cultural Affairs, 5/16/46; #901
State Department, speech, "Public Affairs Program," 11/4/46; #902
State Department, speech, "Cultural Foundations of the Peace," 6/5/47; #889
State Department, speech, final remarks to staff, 9/47; #907
State Department, Elmer Davis, "State Department; Press Service Disputes," Rotary Club, 2/26/46; #1022
State Department, statement, "Appointment of U. S. delegation to UNESCO London Conference," 10/199/45; #1471B
State Department, statement, "Radio Broadcasting Company Practice of Exclusive Rights," 1/4/46; #824
State Department, statement, "Appointment of Five Special Consultants to Advise State Department on UNESCO," 1/26/46; #1084
State Department, statement, "Press Dispute; Attitude of Various Publications and Press Groups toward State Department," 2/9/46; #1073
State Department, statement, "International Short Wave Broadcasting and Appointment of Advisory Committee," 5/11/46; #1079
State Department, statement, "International Broadcasting and Program Fund Slash," 5/18/46; #820
State Department, statement, "Fulbright Bill," 8/1/46; #617
State Department, statement, "Cultural Exchange Program Sent to Congress," 3/24/47; #741
State Department, statement, "State Department's Radio Advisory Committee Urges Strengthening of Department and Voice of America," 5/16/47; #621
State Department, statement, "Freedom of Information; Draft Agreement Prepared by Richard J. Finnegan," 9/5/47; #1164
State Department, statement, presentation of 50 sets of Encyclopaedia Britannica to German news agencies, 7/19/48; #1353
State Department, statement, "Russian A-Bomb Explosion and Implications in Civil Defense," 10/4/51; #805
State Department, statement, "Revisions of International Information Program," 1/18/52; #538
State Department, David Sarnoff statement, "Freedom to Listen-For All People of the World," NBC network, 4/2/46; #784
State Department, summary editorial support, Overseas Cultural and Information Program, 7/7/47 & 8/25/47; #1194-#1195
State Department, television, "Information, Communication, and Power," 1/14/68; #2177
State Department, testimony. See Marshall Plan of Ideas, Senate, etc.
Stevenson, Adlai, acceptance of Advisory Board chairmanship of Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, 4/10/57; #24
Stevenson, article, "Federal Support for the Schools," prepared by Benton's staff, 8/56; #138
Stevenson, article, "Korea in Perspective," Foreign Affairs, 4/52; #284B
Stevenson, article, "Putting Things First; A Democratic View," ibid., 1/60; #284B
Stevenson, article, "Our Plight in Latin America," Look, 11/22/60; #284B
Stevenson, article, "Dual Educational Problem; School and Home," New York Times, 4/6/58; #284B
Stevenson, article, "National Purpose," ibid., 5/26/56; #284B
Stevenson, article, "Education and American Aims," New York Times Magazine, 4/13/58; #192
Stevenson, article, "Talk of the Town; Adlai Stevenson," The New Yorker, 7/24/65; #2090
Stevenson, article, "Politics and Morality," Saturday Review, 2/7/59; #284B
Stevenson, article, "Choice by Hullabaloo," This Week, 2/28/60; #284B
Stevenson, article, "Plan for a Great Debate," ibid., 3/6/60; #284B
Stevenson, John Benton article, "Cruise with Adlai," Bridgeport Herald, 8/9/59; #1253
Stevenson, Benton article, "Stevenson's Last Hours," Bridgeport Sunday Herald, 7/18/65; #2081
Stevenson, Benton article, "In Memoriam; Adlai E. Stevenson," Britannica Book of the Year, 1966; #2110
Stevenson, Benton article, "As We Knew Adlai; Ambassador of Good Will," 1966; #2093
Stevenson, Max Ehrmann article, "Desiderata"; #2081A
Stevenson, book, As We Knew Adlai, 1966; #2093
Stevenson, book, Bert Cochrane, Adlai Stevenson; Patrician Among the Politicians, 1969; #2240
Stevenson, book, Walter Johnson, The Papers of Adlai Stevenson, vols. 1 and 2, 1973; #2134
Stevenson, book, Herbert J. Muller, Adlai Stevenson; A Study in Values, 1967; #2282
Stevenson, book, Alden Whitman, Portrait; Adlai Stevenson-Politician, Diplomat, Friend, 1965; #2100
Stevenson, book review, What I think, New York Times Book Review, 2/26/56; #284B
Stevenson, Benton interview, biographical reminiscences about Stevenson, 6/15/67; #2218
Stevenson, Benton interview, biographical reminiscences about Stevenson, 6/15/67; #2160
Stevenson, Benton letter to Stevenson, Senatorial nomination at Democratic State Convention, 7/1/58; #849
Stevenson, Benton letter to John Fischer, explanation of Stevenson's character, 1/66; #2108
Stevenson, memo, Latin American trip, 2-3/61; #1242
Stevenson, memo, conclusions about U. S. policy applied to Latin America, (#94), 4/18/60; #1735
Stevenson, monologue, Flying Clipper reunion party, 10/24/59; #1293
Stevenson, photo, autographed, 1957; #1411
Stevenson, photo, accepting chairmanship of EB Advisory Board, 4/57; #1537
Stevenson, photo, cocktail party for EB's Switzerland Office, 7/8/65; #2089
Stevenson, photo, Kennedy inauguration, 1960; #2306
Stevenson, preface drafts, Great Soviet Encyclopedia; #1365
Stevenson, preface drafts, This Is the Challenge; #282B
Stevenson, press conference, Argentina, 3/19/60; #1725
Stevenson, press conference, Venezuela, 4/4/60; #1743
Stevenson, press conference, Uruguay, 3/21/60; #1745
Stevenson, speech, "Foreign Policy," American Bar Association Convention, 9/1/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Statesmanship in Both Parties," American Society of Newspaper Editors, 4/22/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Youth and Their Role for the Future," Amherst College, 6/11/61; #284
Stevenson, speech, California Democratic Council State Convention, 2/4/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, 1960 campaign, "Foreign Policy," 10/3/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Nixon and the Republican Party," 10/30/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Nixon and the Republican Party", "Richard Nixon," 9/26/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Nixon and the Republican Party", "Foreign Policy and Disarmament," 9/29/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Nixon and the Republican Party", "Democrats versus Republicans," 9/27/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Paris Conference, U-2 Incident, World Tensions, and Latin American Politics," Conference on Reduction of World Tension, 5/13/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Political Relevance of Moral Principle," Davies Memorial Lecture, 1/18/59; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic luncheon, 2/15/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, "Election Eve; Implications of a Democratic Victory," 11/1/58; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, "Plan to Aid the Aged," 9/24/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, 10/29/55; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, "Accusing President of Failing to Provide Leadership," 9/27/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, "Accusing Appeasement," 9/25/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, "Disarmament," 9/30/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, 10/7/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, 2/17/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, 2/15/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Democratic rally, "Mobilization of U. S. Production," 9/28/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Wisconsin Democratic Convention, 10/7/55; #284
Stevenson, speech, Preble's retirement from Encyclopaedia Britannica," 9/30/59; #1277
Stevenson, speech, "Far East; Our Foreign Policy," Clair Engle Dinner, 10/1/58; #284
Stevenson, speech, Fairleigh Dickinson, 10/3/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Georgia legislature, 11/23/53; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Presidential Election of 1952," Gridiron Club Dinner, 12/13/52; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Politics in General," Gridiron Club Dinner, 3/2/57; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Foreign Policy," Harvard Alumni Association, 6/17/65; #284
Stevenson, speech, Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, 3/10/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Politics,' Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, 2/14/53; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Politics,' Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner, 2/12/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Presidential Campaign," 10/27/52; #732
Stevenson, speech, "America's Responsibility Today," University of Louisville, 5/21/58; #832
Stevenson, speech, Minneapolis Labor Temple, 3/2/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Economic Challenge Facing the West," National Business Conference, 6/6/59; #284
Stevenson, speech, "International Trade Policies," National Conference on Organizations on International Trade Policy, 3/27/58; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Improving Education; A Free People's Responsibility," National School Boards Association, 1/26/59; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Political Liberties," Northwestern Law School, 5/13/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, Oakland Municipal Auditorium, 2/1/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, "U. S. Elections, Foreign Policy, and Canadian-American Relations," Primrose Club Dinner, 12/3/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, Queen's University, 10/15/55; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Americans for Democratic Action," Roosevelt Day Dinner, 1/31/58; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Politics," Southern Conference, 3/6/54; /3284
Stevenson, speech, Oklahoma State Fair, 9/25/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, Milwaukee, 9/29/56; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Strategy for Peace After the Summit Collapse," Textile Workers Union of America, 6/1/60; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Truman in Public Life and the Contrast with the Eisenhower Administration," Truman Dinner, 2/22/58; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Tribute to Harry Truman," Truman's 75th Birthday Celebration, 5/8/59; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Responsibilities of Parents and Educators," United Parents' Association Annual Conference, 3/29/58; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Foreign Policy," Williams College commencement, 6/12/65; #284
Stevenson, speech, Yeshiva University, 12/13/53; #284
Stevenson, speech, "Founder's Day Address," University of Virginia, 4/12/60; #284
Stevenson, television, Harold Wilson talks about his last luncheon with Stevenson, 7/19/65; #2084
Stevenson, television, Benton's last visit with Stevenson, 7/14/65; #2082
Stevenson, television, "Tribute to Adlai Stevenson," 7/15/65; #2083
Stevenson, television, Latin American trip, 4/8/60; #1713
Stevenson, telegram to Eisenhower, congratulations on presidential victory, 11/6/56; #284A
Stevenson, Benton telegram to Stevenson, Middle East and Tass article on West's armed intervention in Suez and Egypt, 11/1/56; #43
Thurber, James, "He doesn't know anything except facts"; #2087
Thurber, and Mort Sahl, "State of Nation's Humor," New York Times, 12/7/58; #1101
Tito, photo, 7/54; #1479
Trollope, Anthony, excerpts from autobiography; #623
Truman, Harry, Cabell Phillips book, The Truman Presidency, 1966; #2132
Truman, Benton letter, authorization of food appropriation for India, 2/6/51; #477A
Truman, Benton letter, study of natural resources and low-cost power in the New York-New England area, 10/5/50; #718
Truman, Benton letter, resignation as Assistant Secretary of State and Truman's acceptance, 9/47; #370
Truman, Benton letter and reply, civil rights and F.E.P.C. for defense industry, 10/20/51; #98
Truman, Benton letter and reply, grain to India, 8/18/50; #556
Truman, Benton letter to Truman and Burnet Waybank, housing shortage at Camp Pickett, 12/50-1/51; #702
Truman, photo, 1952; #1410
Truman, photo, autographed; #1405
Truman, photo, Truman dinner, 2/58; #1538
Truman, photo, 4/56; #1482
Truman, photo, signing Fulbright Act, 8/1/46; #1522
Truman, speech, "Campaign of Truth," American Society of Newspaper Editors, 4/19/50; #525
Truman, speech, "Politics," 10/18/52; #406
Truman, speech, "Republican Administration of Today," Truman Dinner, 2/22/58; #205
Truman, statement, "Executive Order Abolishing Office of War Information," 8/31/45; #1081
Truman, Benton statement, "Truman Library Dedication," 7/6/57; #23
UNESCO, appointment, U. S. member of Executive Board, 3/19/63; #1320
UNESCO, appointment, Congressional adviser, 5/6/50; #1466
UNESCO, appointment, delegate to founding conference, 11/1/45; #1471
UNESCO, appointment, chairman of U. S. delegation to Mexico City conference, 11/3/47; #1432
UNESCO, appointment, chairman of U. S. delegation to Paris conference, 11/46; #1494
UNESCO, article, "Britannica's Publisher Serves as U. S. Ambassador to UNESCO," Know, 5/64; #1983
UNESCO, Benton article, "What Is UNESCO All About?"; #1936
UNESCO, Benton article, American Foreign Service Journal, 2/47; #852
UNESCO, Benton article, "International Program and UNESCO; Way to International Peace," Coronet, 1948; #1254
UNESCO, Benton article, "Appeal to Minerva," General Federation of Club-women Bulletin, 11/46; #1351
UNESCO, Benton article, "Understanding Is Also a Force," ibid., 1946; #885
UNESCO, Benton article, "My World, My Human Race," Library Journal, 3/1/47; #851
UNESCO, Benton article, "Coexistence," Playboy, 12/65; #2015A
UNESCO, Benton article, "That Nations May Know," Saturday Review, 12/3/66; #2135
UNESCO, Benton article, "The Defense of Peace; Progress Report on UNESCO," ibid., 3/7/64; #1339
UNESCO, Benton article, "Major Task for Schools in 1947," Virginia Journal of Education, 3/47; #1196
UNESCO, book, George Shuster, Ground I Walk On, 1961; #1860
UNESCO, book, George Shuster, UNESCO; Assessment and Promise, 1963; #1348
UNESCO, book, Charles A. Thomson and W. H. C. Laves, UNESCO; Purpose, Progress, Prospects, 1957; #1934
UNESCO, book, Charles A. Thomson and W. H. C. Laves, Cultural Relations and U. S. Foreign Policy, 1963; #2001
UNESCO, Benton letter to James Byrnes, report on UNESCO London Conference, 12/5/45; #1350B
UNESCO, Benton letter to James Byrnes, report on UNESCO Mass Media Conference, 9/28/46; #679
UNESCO, Benton letter to James Byrnes, UNESCO's founding and the London Conference, 1946; #1350
UNESCO, Benton letter to James Byrnes, report of UNESCO meeting, 9/28/47; #1076
UNESCO, Benton letter, to Luther Evans, Russian propaganda and distortions of history, 12/1/55; #131
UNESCO, Benton letter, to Ray Murphy, America Legion's misquotation on UNESCO's role in world peace, 4/6/55; #1270
UNESCO, Byrnes letter to Sol Bloom, UNESCO's responsibilities and potentialities, 4/2/46; #1078
UNESCO, John F. Kennedy letter to Benton, appointment as U. S. member on Executive Board, 3/11/63; #1320
UNESCO, memo, Helen Benton, "Outline and Critique of George Shuster's book on UNESCO," 10/19/63; #1348
UNESCO, memo, William Benton, Bellagio, "UNESCO's Contributions to Peace," 5/66; #2120A
UNESCO, memo, William Benton, Mr. Maheu, 5/28/66; #2134
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Paul Carneiro of Brazil, 5/28/63; #1330
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Chairman Beeby, 10/16/63; #1917A
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Maheu, 9/24/63; #1914A
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Mr. Sharif of Pakistan, 10/17/63; #1918
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Mme. de Tejeira of Panama, 10/7/63; #1919
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Chairman Beeby, 9/24/63; #1917
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Sharif, 6/3/64; #1957
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Maheu, 10/14/63; #1914
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Mr. Pompei of Italy, 10/18/63; #1915
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Carneiro, 10/18/63; #1916
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Mr. Roseman, 5/27/63; #1330
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Carneiro, 5/14/64; #1955
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Pompei, 10/12/64; #2044
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Carneiro, 10/2/64; #2093A
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Maheu, 5/4/64; #1956
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Maheu and Mr. John Fobes, 10/1/64; #2093
UNESCO, memo, Paris, Mme. Gandhi and Carneiro, 10/17/64; #2028
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Mr. Vakrouchev, and Carneiro, 10/16/64; #2017
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Pompei, 11/16/64; #2029
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Carneiro, 5/6/65; #2063
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Pompei, 5/13/65; #2064
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Maheu, 7/7/65; #2086
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Russian delegation, 10/9/65; #2078
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Pompei, 10/19/65; #2098
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Carneiro, 10/22/65; #2095
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Mr. Cookey of Nigeria, 10/23/65; #2079
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Maheu, 10/28/65; #2096
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Sharif and Carneiro, 10/30/65; #2097
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Pompei, 5/12/66; #2133
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Fobes, 4/25/67; #2145
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Carneiro and Chagas, 4/27/67; #2146
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Pompei, 5/8/67; #2148
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Pompei, 10/67; #2180
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Maheu, 5/9/67; #2149
UNESCO, memo, Academician Sissakian, Fobes, 10/29/67; #2181
UNESCO, photo, Brazilian Medal ceremony, 5/14/64; #1953A
UNESCO, photo, American delegation, 11/46; #1491
UNESCO, photo, reception for Benton, 5/65; #2226
UNESCO, photo, tribute dinner, 4/20/50; #1591
UNESCO, photo, Maheu with Rush and Gardner, 11/9/65; #2109
UNESCO, photo, Maheu with Johnson, 11/67; #2227
UNESCO, photo, Maheu with Kennedy, 10/63; #2225
UNESCO, photo, Benton with Johnson, 2/1/67; #2235
UNESCO, photo, Kennedy appoints Benton U. S. representative to Executive Board, 3/9/63; #1320A
UNESCO, photo, Truman signs Congressional resolution authorizing U. S. membership, 7/30/46; #1489
UNESCO, photo, American delegation, 9/46; #1505
UNESCO, photo, American delegation, 10/68; #2215A
UNESCO, press conference, "UNESCO's Role in International Broadcasting," 9/24/46; #1788
UNESCO, press conference, "Postwar Italy," 6/14/50; #532
UNESCO, radio, Paris Conference, 12/23/46; #677C
UNESCO, radio, 4/50; #924
UNESCO, radio, 25th anniversary, 11/11/71; #2275
UNESCO, radio, "What's the Answer?," 6/50; #658A
UNESCO, radio, "People's Job in UNESCO," 9/25/46; #1061
UNESCO, radio, Paris Conference Report, 12/23/46; #875
UNESCO, radio, "Can UNESCO Help to Prevent a Third World War?," 11/9/46; #999
UNESCO, radio, "UNESCO as the Realization of Woodrow Wilson's Dream," 12/27/46; #489
UNESCO, report, Abidjan Conference of African Ministers of Education, 3/64; #1958
UNESCO, report, Abidjan Conference of African Ministers of Education, 4/64; #1958A
UNESCO, report, London Conference, part I, 1946; #1350
UNESCO, report, London Conference, part II, 1946; #1350A
UNESCO, report, Mexico City Conference, 12/22/47; #1156
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/46; #1165
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/18/63; #1330
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/63; #1329
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/63; #1945
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/63; #2091
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 5-6/64; #1869
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 8/64; #2092
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/64; #2034
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/64; #2045
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/65; #2070
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/65; #2071
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/65; #2104
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/65; #2105
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/66; #2128
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/66; #2129
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/67; #2155
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/67; #2156
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/67; #2176
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 12/14/67; #2175
UNESCO, report, Paris Conference, 6/68; #2201
UNESCO, report, 78th Executive Board Session, 8/68; #2204
UNESCO, report, Henry J. Kellerman, "The United States and UNESCO," ca. 1961; #1332
UNESCO, speech, Miquel Aleman, "UNESCO's Role in Promoting International Culture and Education," UNESCO Second General Conference, 11/6/47; #570
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Education as an Instrument of U. S. Foreign Policy," American Academy of Political and Social Science, 4/16/66; #2115
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Freedom of Information," U. S. National Commission, 9/27/48; #529
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Preservation of Monuments," 5/30/66; #2121
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Introducing UNESCO's Director General Rene Maheu," 10/23/63; #1341
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Report on 66th Executive Board Session," 10/23/63; #1342
UNESCO, Benton speech, "UNESCO's Role and Its Goals," Chicago Council of Foreign Relations, 1/9/47; #646
UNESCO, Benton speech, "UNESCO; The Dream Comes of Age," University of Chicago, 10/11/67; #2163
UNESCO, Benton speech, "University and UNESCO," University of Chicago, 1/8/47; #645
UNESCO, Benton speech, "UNESCO's Role in Radio Broadcasting," 3/30/49; #880
UNESCO, Benton speech, Abidjan Conference of African Ministers of Education, 3/19/64; #1947
UNESCO, Benton speech, "UNESCO's Role in Mass Communication," Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, 9/12/47; #1786
UNESCO, Benton speech, audience with Pope Pius, 6/10/50; #658A
UNESCO, Benton speech, "UNESCO's Responsibility," 6/6/50; #658
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Our Foreign Policy and UNESCO," Industrialist Group of New Britain, 4/16/51; #1094
UNESCO, Benton speech, "UNESCO as a True International Force," 11/10/47; #644
UNESCO, Benton speech, panel discussion on implications of Soviet membership in UNESCO, 10/15/54; #705
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Understanding Among Peoples," Motion Picture Industry, 3/6/46; #883
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Budget and Fund Raising for UNESCO," 12/10/46; #677B
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Cooperation with UNDP," 10/20 & 10/23/67; #2170
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "UNESCO's Role and Responsibility," 11/23/46; #677
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Disarmament," 9/25/63; #1924
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Budget, Education, and Disarmament," 9/26/63; #1923
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "U. S. Policy Toward UNESCO," 9/30/63; #1340
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Budget Policy," 10/9/63; #1343
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Human Rights and Science Program," 10/10/63; #1346
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, National Academy of Science Centennial, 10/17/63; #1347
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, remarks to Executive Board, 5-6/64; #1952
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, remarks to Executive Board, 4/29-5/17/63; #1325
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, remarks to Executive Board, 10/15/64; #2026
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, remarks to Executive Board, 10/14/64; #2022
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, remarks to Executive Board, 10/12/64; #2021
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, remarks to Executive Board, 9/30/64; #2019
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, budget discussions, 10/25/64; #2018
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, budget discussions, 10/15/64; #2023
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, budget discussions, 10/14/64; #2024
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, budget discussions, 10/27/64; #2014
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, nongovernmental organizations, 10/22/64; #2038
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, relationship between Executive Board and Secretariat, 11/12/64; #2039
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, explanation of U. S. vote on budget, 11/20/64; #2040
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, explanation of U. S. vote on arrearages of Bolivia and Chile, 10/27/64; #2027
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, General Conference agenda and issue of peaceful coexistence, 10/21/64; #2037
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, Plenary Session, 10/30/64; #2020
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, management study, 10/12/64; #2025
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, constitution of subsidiary organs to Executive Board, 11/21/64; #2036
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Peaceful Coexistence," 11/4/64; #2015
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Rule 24; Access to Tapes of Speeches," 11/19/64; #2035
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, Sissakian's nomination to presidency of General Conference, 10/16/64; #2016
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, tribute to Nehru, 5/64; #2041
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, Director-General's oral report, 5/4/65; #2060
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Point 5.2.2; Preliminary Conference of Experts," 5/10/65; #2061
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Important Innovations," 5/12/65; #2062
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, Director-General's oral report, 10/5/65; #2074
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, Ad Hoc Committee Report, 10/18/65; #2075
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, 1967-68 program and budget, 10/19/65; #2077
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, reserve for budget, 10/25/65; #2101
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, salary review of UNESCO Secretariat, 11/3/65; #2103
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, staffing of UNESCO's Secretariat, 11/3/65; #2102
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, postponement of budget ceiling vote, 11/4/65; #2076
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, geographic distribution of Secretariat, 5/10/66; #2122
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, provisional agenda and proposed dates for next Executive Board meeting, 5/12/66; #2123
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, Executive Board committee on NGOs, 5/13/66; #2124
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Item 4.1; Introduction to the Programme and Budget for 1967-68," 5/16/66; #2125
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Social Sciences, Human Sciences, and Culture," 5/18/66; #2126
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Mass Communications," 5/20/66; #2127
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, 10/21-24/66; #2136
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, 4/24/67; #2140
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Human Rights and NGOs," 10/19/67; #2171
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, U. N. Ad Hoc Committee of Experts (Committee of 14), 4/28/67; #2141
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, French government's communications about payment of turnover taxes, 5/3/67; #2142
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, Conference on the Application of Science and Technology in Asia (CASTASIA), 5/12/67; #2143
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, cooperation with U. N. Development Programme, 5/12/67; #2144
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, 9/6-12/68; #2209
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, budget ceiling, 9/12/68; #2210
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, farewell speech, 9/10/68; #2208
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, 78th Executive Board Session, 5/6/68; #2202
UNESCO, Benton speech, Paris, "Homage to Robert F. Kennedy"; #2203
UNESCO, Benton speech, "UNESCO; A Proposal to History," University of Pennsylvania, 3/24/47; #649
UNESCO, Benton speech, 4/24/63; #1323
UNESCO, Benton speech, on leaving UNESCO Executive Board and National Commission, 9/68; #2215
UNESCO, Benton speech, UNESCO's draft constitution, 10/1/45; #1417A
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Greeting from Assistant Secretary of State," 9/25/46; #1787
UNESCO, Benton speech, "How Far Can UNESCO Reach?," 4/13/50; #789
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Information Program," 12/13/45; #584
UNESCO, Benton speech, "Report of the Mass Media Convention," 9/24/46; #679
UNESCO, Benton speech, "UNESCO's Role and Its Goals," 9/23/46; #648
UNESCO, Archibald MacLeish speech, "UNESCO; Its Meaning," 9/25/46; #1075
UNESCO, Torres speech, "UNESCO's Responsibilities," 11/6/47; #678
UNESCO, miscellaneous speeches, 25th anniversary celebration, 11/4/71; #2276
UNESCO, Benton statement, "Constitution of UNESCO," 10/26/45; #647
UNESCO, Benton statement, "Conference of African Ministers of Education," 3/64; #1951
UNESCO, Benton statement, "Budget Vote," 10/10/63; #1344
UNESCO, Benton statement, "Resolution to Support U. N. in Korea," 8/28/50; #782
UNESCO, Benton statement, "Appointment of U. S. Delegation to UNESCO's London Conference," 10/19/45; #1471B
UNESCO, Benton statement, "Benton's Appointment of Five Special Consultants to Advise State Department on UNESCO," 1/26/46; #1084
UNESCO, Benton testimonial, key to Mexico City, 11/47; #1467
UNESCO, Benton testimony, "UNESCO; Functions, Responsibilities and Goals," 4/3/46; #1078
UNESCO, Benton testimony, "Implementation of the Florence and Beirut Agreements," 6/6/66; #2119
UNESCO, tribute to Benton, 4/20/50; #431
University of Bridgeport, Benton speech, presentation of award for best in-service program, 5/24/72; #2286
University of Bridgeport, Benton speech, Alumnus of the Year Award, 10/10/59; #1291
University of Bridgeport, Benton speech, "Tribute to Arthur Goldberg," 2/19/70; #2249
University of Bridgeport, Benton speech, "Tribute to the University and to Governor Dempsey," 4/19/67; #2139
University of Chicago, article, "University of Chicago's Public Relations," College and University Journal, Spring 1962; #993B
University of Chicago, article, "Sound Movies for Sound Education," University of Chicago Magazine, 11/43; #771
University of Chicago, Herman Kogan, "Benton Gambles on the Britannica," ibid., 2/58; #292
University of Chicago, Herman Kogan, Robert Hutchins, "Sears Roebuck's Gift of Encyclopaedia Britannica to the University of Chicago and Testimonial to Senator Benton and General Wood," University of Chicago Alumni Magazine, 7/3/45; #745
University of Chicago, Board of Trustees resolution, gratitude to Bentons for acquisition of Encyclopaedia Britannica, 10/19/44; #1265
University of Chicago, Board of Trustees resolution, 15th anniversary of affiliation with Encyclopaedia Britannica, 4/11/57; #130
University of Chicago, Benton book, The University of Chicago's Public Relations, 1/37; #993A
University of Chicago, contributions from faculty and letters of support, 11/3/50; #1012
University of Chicago, editorial ideas, Benton and Mayer, 1937-1939; #725
University of Chicago, Benton letter to Glen Lloyd, appraisal of University, 11/20/59; #1362
University of Chicago, Benton Medal, presented on occasion of Benton's 25th anniversary as publisher of Encyclopaedia Britannica, 2/1/68; #2179-#2179C
University of Chicago, memo, "How Can the University Collaborate with the Federal Government?," 11/14 and 12/8/41; #1996
University of Chicago, memo, to trustees, Encyclopaedia Britannica editorial revisions, 1/4/63; #1319
University of Chicago, Frederick Gates memo, "How to Raise Funds," reprint of 5/26/1890 original; #1116
University of Chicago, pamphlet, "First Fifty Years," 1941; #1386
University of Chicago, pamphlet, "Forth to War Against Cancer," 1941; #1389
University of Chicago, pamphlet, "Great Men," ca. 1937; #1390
University of Chicago, pamphlet, "Men of Tomorrow," ca. 1940; #1387
University of Chicago, pamphlet, "New Stars in the Scientific Firmament," ca. 1940; #1385
University of Chicago, pamphlet, "These Hundred Years," 1936; #1388
University of Chicago, photo, miscellaneous, 1936-1945; #1481
University of Chicago, photo, trustees, 2/45; #1475
University of Chicago, photo, trustees and officers, 6/41; #1486
University of Chicago, photo, celebration marking Benton's 25th publishing anniversary, #2179C
University of Chicago, radio, "Education of a Businessman and the Role of the University in the Business World," 11/15/37; #600
University of Chicago, radio, "Further Education of a Business Man," 1/21/38; #601
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "How Does War Affect the Round Table?," 12/15/41; #857
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "After One Year of War, What Have We Learned?," 12/6/42; #682
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Are We Unprepared for Peace?," 8/19/45; #671
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Can the American Economy Meet the Post-war Challenge?," 10/8/44; #739
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Can We Defeat the Propaganda of International Communism?," 8/20/50; #553
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Cartels and the Peace," 7/11/43; #667
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Economic System; Today and Tomorrow," 8/15/43; #673
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Government and Business," 4/23/50; #719
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Hemisphere Development and the Common Man," 5/14/44; #674
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Must American Taxpayers Support the British Economy?," 12/9/51; #631
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Post-War Air Policy," 11/14/43; #672
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Problems of Prosperity; Government and Business," 4/23/50; #1054
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Red China; Conflict in British and American Foreign Policy," 9/26/54; #751
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Small Business After the War," 6/18/44; #738
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "What Freedom of Information Means to You," 2/5/50; #554
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Atomic Force; Its Meaning for Mankind," 8/12/45; #1083
University of Chicago, radio, Round Table, "Information, Communication, and Power," 1/14/68; #2177
University of Chicago, Benton report (signed by Hutchins and Rockefeller), "Motion Pictures in the Field of Public Education," 9/37; #1208
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Careers for Boys," 11/30/39; #872
University of Chicago, Benton speech, Football Alumni Club, 12/8/37; #871
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Business Man Looks at the Law School," 6/10/38; #686
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Business Man Reports on a University," Rotary Club, 3/29/38; #863
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Football and Benton," football dinner, 6/7/39; #860
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Founding of the Committee for Economic Development," Citizens' Board, 10/26/43; #587
University of Chicago, Benton speech, Homecoming dinner marking Benton's vice-presidential appointment, 10/13/37; #298
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "A Tribute to John Howe," 6/9/38; #864A
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Memorial Service for John Howe," 10/12/67; #2166
University of Chicago, Benton speech, introduction as new vice-president, 12/8/37; #871
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Brien McMahon; A Retrospect," 5/23/65; #2066
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "My Life and Yours," Student Forum, 1/14/60; #1391
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Presentation of William Benton Medal to Paul Hoffman," 4/13/72; #2278
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Radio, an Educational Media," alumni, 6/9/39; #864
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Radio Broadcasting; Challenge to Educators," Women's Club, 1/26/38; #861
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "This Is My Life," no text, 1/14/60; #1391
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "UNESCO; The Dream Comes of Age," 10/11/67; #2163
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "University of Chicago; Role in the Field of Education," Dartmouth College, outline, 6/14/39; #858
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "The University and the City," Sponsor's Luncheon, 12/18/40; #867
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "University as a Pioneer," Student Forum, 12/6/39; #868
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "University as a Pioneer," Miami University, 2/23/40; #869
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Fund Raising for the University," New York alumni group, 4/17/41; #1300
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Soviet Challenge; Education," New York alumni dinner, no text, 5/2/56; #85
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "University as a Pioneer," South Bend alumni dinner given by Paul Hoffman, 1/8/40; #111
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "University of Chicago," Washington, D. C. alumni, ca. 1950; #161
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "Publicizing the Name of the University," Washington, D. C. alumni, no text, 1/9/38; #859
University of Chicago, Benton speech, "The University and UNESCO," Trustees' Dinner for Faculties, 1/8/47; #645
University of Chicago, Benton speech, Robert Hutchins, "State of the University, 1929-1949"; #633F
University of Chicago, Benton speech, Julian Huxley, "Evolutionary Vision," 11/27/59; #1607
University of Chicago, statement, "Introducing Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Inc.," 1/24/44; #1251
University of Chicago, tribute to Benton by Chancellor Kimpton on Encyclopaedia Britannica's 190th anniversary, 6/10/58; #511A
Walton, Clarence C., Business and Social Progress, 1970; #2243
Wilkie, Wendell, Robert Hagy memo, "A Study in Character," 11/17/45; #838
Wilkie, One Man's Freedom, 1962; #1931
Yale Conference, W. J. Cunningham article, "Human Resources," American Scientist, 6/58; #152E
Yale Conference, editorial, "Science and Education; The Call to Order," Monsanto Magazine, 4/58; #152E
Yale Conference, Connor Resolution to pay tribute to Benton Foundation for contribution to scientific advancement, 2/3-4/58; #152Q
Yale Conference, Benton introduction of Griswold, 2/3-4/58; #152F
Yale Conference, miscellaneous, 2/3-4/58; #152B
Yale Conference, photos, 2/3-4/58; #1544-#1567, #1593-#1595
Yale Conference, radio, no text, 1/30/58; #177
Yale Conference, radio, 1/31/58; #174
Yale Conference, release of text of Eisenhower telegram, 2/3-4/58; #152C
Yale Conference, summary by members of President's Committee, 2/3-4/58; #152F
Yale Conference, transcript, 2/3-4/58; #152R
Yale Conference, Benton speech, "Pace of Change," 2/3-4/58; #152H
Yale Conference, Bevis speech, "Soviet Scientific Challenge," 2/3-4/58; #152I
Yale Conference, Dubridge speech, "Education in the Age of Science," 2/3-4/58; #152J
Yale Conference, Dulles speech, "Soviet Challenge; Science and Technology," 2/3-4/58; #152K
Yale Conference, Killian speech, "Toward a New Level of Excellence; Education in Science," 2/3-4/58; #152L
Yale Conference, McBride speech, "Education," 2/3-4/58; #152M
Yale Conference, Meyer speech, "Educating Future Scientists in a Rounded Educational System," 2/3-4/58; #152N
Yale Conference, Waterman speech, "Soviet Challenge; Science," 2/3-4/58; #1520
Yale Conference, television, 2/2/58; #160
Yale Conference, television, Benton and scientists interviewed, 1/31/58; #175
Yale University, photo, Benton family at 35th reunion Class of 1921, 6/56; #1449
Yale University, photo, 30th reunion of Class of 1921, 6/51; #1539
Yntema, Ted, photo, autographed; #1417
Zaiman, Jack, "Needle's Eye; Cheapest Vacation," Hartford Courant, 9/59; #1290
Zaiman, "Senate Fight; Democrats Shaken by Intensity," ibid., 6/29/58; #837A
Zaiman, radio, "Senatorial Nomination," 5/14/58; #940
Subseries 1: Personal: This series contains family memorabilia, college memorabilia, oral history interviews, biographical information and other memorabilia. It also includes obituaries, tributes, and letters of condolence after the death of William Benton.
Subseries 2: Correspondence: This series contains letters, mostly written to Benton, arranged in chronological order. While there is not a lot of correspondence, there are letters from public figures in it. Some correspondence is also located in Subseries 6: Oversize.
Subseries 3: Speeches and Writing: This series contains articles, speeches, and interviews by William Benton, organized in chronological order.
Subseries 4: Career: This series is ordered chronologically, and includes materials related to the Democratic Party; politics; political campaigns; Benton's time in the State Department; Benton's time as a senator; the Council for Economic Development (CED); the Encyclopedia Britannica; Great Books of the Western World; Benton's trips to Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union, and Latin America; and UNESCO. Materials include press clippings, political cartoons, writings, speeches, publications, memos, collected publications, and memorabilia.
Subseries 5: Audiovisual: This series contains photographs and recordings, including cassettes, reel-to-reel films, and magnetic tape recordings.
Subseries 6: Oversize: This series contains posters, portraits, framed memorabilia, artworks, an attache case, and newspapers from Benton's career and family life. It contains materials relating to the other subseries and should be consulted in conjunction with them.
The collection is divided into two series, the first covering the years 1892 to 1932 and the second 1932 through 1965.
Series I: Department of Building and Grounds, 1892-1932
Lyman Flook maintained files on every aspect of his work for the Department of Buildings and Grounds: planning and construction reports, financial statements, office organization, and correspondence with individual faculty members, Trustees, committees, architects, contractors, and suppliers. To facilitate access to the records and eliminate redundancy, his files have been reorganized into four series: General Office Files, Landscaping and Maintenance, Individual Buildings, and Catalogues and Letterheads.
Subseries 1: General Office Files
This series contains the internal operational records of the Department of Buildings and Grounds and the Office of the Superintendent of Construction. Although some records antedate Flook’s appointment as Superintendent of Construction, the bulk of the material extends from his initial report to President Judson in 1919 to the termination of the Office of Superintendent of Construction in 1932 (1:5-2:8). Flook’s larger concerns about university architecture are reflected in his collection of articles and brochures on building activities at the University of Chicago and other institutions (1:2). He was in regular contact with fellow building superintendents and occasionally visited their campuses to consult on the development of construction plans. This series also contains Flook’s personal files, his army record, vita, geneology, college account book, and reading list (3:8-10).
Subseries 2: Landscaping and maintenance
The Trustees’ Committee on Buildings and Grounds regarded landscaping as an integral past of the total campus scheme. Walks, drives, walls, and steps, particularly in the central quadrangles, met the practical need for access while enhancing the general impression of a comprehensive design. Correspondence and reports in this series have been arranged chronologically by project, followed by miscellaneous records on general landscape maintenance.
Subseries 3: Individual Buildings
All of Flook’s Departmental records relating to the construction of individual buildings have been consolidated within this series. Existing records for each building are arranged to reflect the typical stages of building construction: specifications, planning, progress reports, arbor furnishing and equipment, symboli, and cost. The most complete sequences of records document buildings erected during Flook’s tenure as Superintendent of Construction (1927-1931).
General specifications are drawn up by the architects and list the conditions governing the execution of the contract: work to be done and materials to be used; regulations and agreements about workmanship; and responsibility, liability, and fees. Mechanical specifications are similar, except that they spell out requirements for heating, ventilation, and electrical work. Planning files include correspondence between Flook, the architects, the Business Manager, the President’s Office, faculty, and members of the Trustees’ Committee on Buildings and Grounds concerning the budgeted price of the structure, cost estimates, materials, appearance, spatial arrangements, and relationships with other campus buildings. Progress reports record the weather, working conditions, number of men on the job, kind of work being done, and number of visitors to the site. Furnishing and equipment could be selected by a faculty committee (24:8), by Flook in cooperation with a departmental representative (16:7), or by a professional interior decorator (12:5). After decisions were made on decoration and inscription, final cost statements were prepared detailing breakdowns of payments to architects, contractors, craftsmen, and suppliers.
Subseries 4: Catalogues and Letterheads
This series contains a selection of suppliers’ catalogues and business letterheads from Flook’s files. The catalogues provide important information on the building technology of the period. Letterheads from Flook’s correspondence often contain engravings of the supplier’s headquarters and factory, names of officers, illustrations of products, and lists of other buildings served by the firm.
Series II: Department of Building and Grounds, 1932-1965
Building records in this series are arranged alphabetically for the most part, one exception being the alterations and new buildings for the hospitals and clinics. These are also listed alphabetically, but under the general heading Hospitals and Clinics. Names and uses of hospital units have changed so frequently over the years that it is sometimes difficult to associate the record of a building with its physical space.
A second large general category is Residences and Facilities for Students. This includes not only completed buildings such as Pierce Tower and Woodward Court but also the plans for a never built women’s residence and some reports of faculty committees on the problems of student housing. The original files for the Center for Continuing Education, now the Graduate Student Residence, are to be found here. At the end of the alphabetical sequence are two boxes (21-22) containing miscellaneous building trades, furniture, and equipment brochures.
For each new building, the records include minutes and correspondence, particularly with architects, faculty, and contractors, relating to planning; lists and costs of furniture and equipment, building estimates, and sources of funding; publicity; and accounts of groundbreakings and dedications. Daily progress reports are available for many of the buildings. Routinely discarded in processing the collection were bills and receipts, their data being available in contractors’ reports and financial statements, change orders that would be reflected on drawings, and letters acknowledging receipt of shop drawings. Absent from this sub-series because they were in use for work on the addition to the Law School Library started in 1984 are the records for the Laird Bell Law Quadrangle (Eero Saarinen and Associates, 1959).
The Martin Hayes Bickham Papers contain 3.5 linear feet of material and cover the period from 1911 to 1965. They consist of materials from coursework in the Sociology Department and Divinity School (1912-1922), correspondence relating to his appointment as secretary of the University of Chicago Christian Association (1911), materials related to his dissertation research (1922), and correspondence with Amos Alonzo Stagg (1950s-1960s). The collection also includes 1938-1939 correspondence with the American Sociological Society and “Friends of Comte and his Work,” which refers to his dissertation research on Comte. Finally, the collection contains materials from the First World War in France—maps, tourist guide books, and other memorabilia, as well as photo postcards photographs, printed photographs, and negatives. Some of these photographic materials relate to the work of Y.M.C.A. in France after the War.
The professional papers of Martin Hayes Bickham are located at the University of Illinois Circle Campus Library. The Bickham Family Papers ca. 1760 through the 1950s comprise a separate manuscript collection in the University of Chicago Library.
The collection has been divided into four series: 1. University of Chicago Course Materials, 2. Correspondence and Papers (arranged chronologically), 3. Photographic Images, and 4. First World War Memorabilia.
Jean Friedberg Block was a University of Chicago expert and a renowned scholar of the architecture and peopling of Hyde Park and the University. This collection of Block’s papers includes general information about the University from the early-to-mid 20th century. Series I contains general correspondence and other information about the University’s early architectural development. Several of these materials are published documents.
Series II contains material pertinent to “The Uses of Gothic,” a 1985 exhibit in the Special Collections Resource Center, which was largely authored and coordinated by Ms. Block. This series contains her research of other similar exhibits and reports about university buildings and Chicago architecture.
This collection includes materials relating to the original publication of Let’s Read, as well as its revised edition. The collection is divided into two series: Let’s Read Manuscript and Related Documents, and Let’s Read Revised Edition Documents. The materials date from 1933-2010, with the majority of materials dating from the mid-1950s to the mid-1960s. The collection provides insight into the research behind the program, the individuals involved in the process, as well as the challenges of publication and research.
Series I, Let’s Read Manuscript and Related Documents, contains Bloomfield’s original primer with illustrations establishing the program, manuscript pages of all six books, a folder of illustrations used within the program, copies of other introductory readers, research materials, marketing brochures and newsletters, program responses from various individuals, as well as correspondence both to and from Barnhart.
Series II, Let’s Read Revised Edition Documents, contains manuscript pages, edited pages, academic articles relating the story of the Bloomfield program, as well as copies of the 1991 revised edition of Let’s Read as well as an unopened, still wrapped copy of the 2010 publication of Let’s Read Second Edition.
This series contains all documents relating to the original publication and research of Bloomfield and Barnhart’s Let’s Read – a Linguistic Approach. It contains some of Bloomfield’s original materials, such as articles describing his research, as well as his original primer of Let’s Read with illustrations. In addition the series includes documents detailing Barnhart’s continued struggle with the research and publication of the program. These documents include correspondence with various individuals who became involved in the program, as well as other academics, educators, teachers, tutors, and parents who provided responses concerning the program. Further, the series includes documents relating to research concerning the program, both from Barnhart and other academics, particularly those from Wayne State University and Syracuse. In addition the collection include materials relating to the marketing and promotion of the program, in the form of brochures and newsletters.
This series contains documents related to the publication of the revised edition of Bloomfield and Barnhart’s Let’s Read – a Linguistic Approach. This includes notes and correspondence concerning editing and publication, a manuscript of the revised edition, and copies of the revised books.
The materials are arranged chronologically. The collection contains several arithmetic books, materials pertaining to the estate of James H. Boggs, an account book, and a promissory note.
The bulk of the Papers represent the correspondence Bonner received as Poetry’s business representative. Also included is a small amount of earlier correspondence, particularly with Harriet Monroe. The material is arranged alphabetically. A small collection of Christmas cards sent by poets to Bonner follows the correspondence.
The body of this collection is comprised of 48 letters, totaling some 150 pages, which were written to their parents by Daniel, James, and Seth Bonney, who were soldiers in Massachusetts regiments during the Civil War. With the exception of one letter from Seth, written in 1868, the correspondence in the collection falls within the period 1860-1864, and describes the various experiences of the three brothers in camp, field, prison, and hospital.
The collection includes, in addition to the letters written by the Bonney brothers, a letter to James Bonney from Henry Putnam, written at a camp near Yorktown, Virginia, a letter from Samuel Hogkins, in the Adjutant General’s Office, to John Bonney, about James, who was reported to be both dead and alive but gravely wounded, and a copy of the orders appointing James clerk, and instructing him to report for duty at the parole camp.
The records of the University of Chicago's Department of Botany include administrative files, publications, memorabilia and artifacts, and a large collection of photographs documenting plant life, environmental phenomena, and departmental activities.
Series I: Office of the Chairman, includes records of the activities of the chair of the Department of Botany, spanning the years 1882-1972. The bulk of material in this series represents the chairmanships of John M. Coulter, Henry C. Cowles, Ezra J. Kraus, John M. Beal and Charles E. Olmsted. Predominant in this series are materials collected for annual reports; materials collected for annual appointment and budget reviews; and faculty recruitment materials. Also included in this series is correspondence regarding grants and development; material related to the Faculty Campaign Committee; pamphlets on the history of the department, compiled by Charles E. Olmsted; correspondence and other material documenting the Department of Botany's administrative relationship to the Department of Zoology and the Department of Pharmacology; chairmanship recommendations; and early issues of Botanical Gazette collected by Charles E. Olmsted.
Series II: Friends of Our Native Landscape, contains publications and other material generated by this conservation group. Material in this series includes copies of Friends of Our Native Landscape's bulletins, as well as items relating to organization and membership in the group.
Series III: Bird Haven, contains memorabilia, publications and other material associated with the Robert Ridgway Memorial Bird Sanctuary and Arboretum, known as Bird Haven. Material in this series includes guest register logs, correspondence, ephemera and conservation publications.
Series IV: Memorabilia, includes three items from the Department of Botany, including two decorative pieces and a departmental guest register. Also included in this series are botanical specimens collected by Charles J. Chamberlain and his students.
Series V: Guides to Photographs, contains information about many of the images collected in Series VI. This series contains catalogues, inventories, and informal lists of photographs held in the Department of Botany. These guides are now obsolete in terms of describing the organization and classification of these images; however, the guides do contain additional descriptive content and information about photographers, dates, and the uses of the photograph collections.
Series VI: Photographs, constitutes the largest and best-documented component of the collection. Most of these images have been digitized and described as part
of American Environmental Photographs, 1891-1936, an electronic resource available online. This series contains over 4,000 photographs documenting natural environments, ecologies, and plant communities in the United States at the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth century. Many of the photographs were produced by faculty such as Henry Chandler Cowles and George Damon Fuller during departmental field trips, and were later used for research and teaching. The photographs provide an overview of important representative natural landscapes in the United States. Other photographs in this series represent botanists, including faculty and staff in the department. The items in this series are primarily black and white prints, negatives and slides in small or medium-sized formats. There is some duplication of images.
The records of the office of the department chairman span the years 1882-1972, with the bulk of material representing the chairmanships of John M. Coulter, Henry C. Cowles, Ezra J. Kraus, John M. Beal and Charles E. Olmsted.
Three types of files are predominant in this series: Material collected for compiling annual reports, such as correspondence, faculty vitae, reports, financial material, publications, and drafts of annual reports; material collected for annual appointment and budget reviews, including budget and salary recommendations, financial material, and related correspondence; and material related to faculty recruitment, including letters of recommendation and other correspondence, publications and biographical material.
Also included in this series is correspondence regarding grants and development; material related to the Faculty Campaign Committee; pamphlets on the history of the department, compiled by Charles E. Olmsted; correspondence and other material documenting the Department of Botany's administrative relationship to the Department of Zoology and the Department of Pharmacology; chairmanship recommendations; and early issues of Botanical Gazette collected by Charles E. Olmsted.
This series contains copies of Friends of Our Native Landscape's bulletins, dating from 1945-1961, as well as a small number of items relating to the group's organization and membership, such as announcements, a handbook, and a membership list.
This series contains memorabilia and other material from Bird Haven, including three guest register logs, correspondence, ephemera and conservation publications.
Memorabilia in this series includes three items from the Department of Botany, including two decorative pieces and a departmental guest register. Also included in this series are botanical specimens collected by Charles J. Chamberlain and his students. Some of these specimens are mounted on glass slides, while others are encased in wax blocks. Chamberlain and his students often included identifying information on the boxes in which the specimens are housed. An anastigmat, used for the production of lantern slides and associated with Charles J. Chamberlain, is also found in this series.
This series contains catalogues, inventories, and informal lists of photographs held in the Department of Botany, many of which are now included in Series VI of this collection. These guides are now obsolete in terms of describing the organization and classification of these images; however, the guides do contain additional descriptive content and information about photographers, dates, and the uses of the photograph collections. Not all of the photographs mentioned in these guides are included in Series VI.
This series is divided into 6 subseries to distinguish among the types of guides included. The first four subseries consist of card files that were likely to have been first compiled by students under Henry C. Cowles. The remaining subseries contain material from a variety of sources in the Department of Botany.
Subseries 1: Index of Species by State, is a card file organized alphabetically by U.S. state. This file indexes the photographs according to the Latin name of species represented.
Subseries 2: Index of Individuals, Groups and Locations, is a card file organized alphabetically by name. This file indexes the photographs according to the names of subjects represented, including faculty, staff, student and professional groups, events, and geographic locations.
Subseries 3: Index of Miscellaneous Subjects, is a card file organized alphabetically. This file indexes the photographs according to subjects and scientific processes represented. Most of the indexed terms are scientific, including common and Latin botanical names.
Subseries 4: Index of Miscellaneous Subjects by Foreign Location, is a card file organized alphabetically by country, continent, or other region. This file indexes the photographs according to subjects represented, including species and other scientific subjects, as well as individuals, groups, and locations.
Subseries 5: Catalogues and Lists, includes several short guides to a variety of parts of the photograph collection. These guides were compiled by several different faculty and students around the 1920s-1940s. Most of these guides do not contain detailed information about the images, but were meant to serve as basic inventories of parts of the photograph collection.
Subseries 6: Boxes, Envelopes and Sleeves, includes many of the original containers in which the images were housed for processing or transport. Many of these containers are annotated, or have stamps or other identifying information.
This series contains thousands photographs documenting natural environments, ecologies, and plant communities in the United States at the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth century. Many of the photographs were produced by faculty such as Henry Chandler Cowles and George Damon Fuller during departmental field trips, and were later used for research and teaching. The photographs provide an overview of important representative natural landscapes in the United States. Other photographs in this series represent botanists, including faculty and staff in the department. In addition to locations in the United States, there are images of foreign locations, as well as photographic reproductions of diagrams, graphs and charts.
The items in this series are primarily black and white prints, negatives and slides in small or medium-sized formats. There is some duplication of images.
This series is divided into eight subseries. Subseries 1-7 are organized by format, with each subseries then organized by state. Coded numbers assigned during digitization processing can be used to uniquely identify individual images; however, these numbers do not represent the original organization or classification of the photographs. Subseries 8: Unsorted Photographs, consists of images in a variety of formats; these images have not been organized or described in detail.
Additional descriptive information about some of these photographs is found in Series V. Most of these images have also been digitized, with detailed descriptions, as part of American Environmental Photographs, 1891-1936, an electronic resource available online.
The Mary Jean Bowman papers include reprints of scholarly articles, manuscripts, notes, correspondence, and other documents. Series I contains work by Mary Jean Bowman, including manuscripts and reprints of articles and books, ranging from 1929 to 1998. Included are works authored by Bowman alone as well as those jointly authored with other scholars, including Bowman’s husband C. Arnold Anderson. Series II contains a variety of research and teaching materials. Included are subject files containing publications and notes on various topics, as well as files of statistical data, syllabi and notes for several courses. Series III contains copies of Bowman’s vitae, information from several conferences, correspondence, miscellaneous notes, and material for a volume about C. Arnold Anderson that Bowman compiled for Anderson’s memorial service in 1990. Series IV contains work by other scholars, including reprints from scholarly journals as well as manuscript drafts. Bowman organized some of these materials by author; the remainder have been grouped into manuscripts organized alphabetically by author (or lead author) name and reprints organized alphabetically by author (or lead author) name. Series V contains restricted material. Box 43 contains financial documents and is restricted for 50 years from date of record creation. Box 44 holds recommendation letters and is restricted for 80 years from date of record creation.
The Amory H. Bradford Papers consist of a sermon titled " The Unity of the World" (1897). This sermon was the address for the Twentieth Convocation of the University of Chicago. In the speech, Bradford calls for international and religious unity to combat against divisions and disintegration.
The Jerald Brauer Papers have been arranged into ten series: Series I, Personal; Series II, Correspondence; Series III, Federated Theological Faculties, 1943-1960; Series IV, Divinity School, 1960-1985; Series V, Research and Course Notes, 1938-1975; Series VI, Sermons and Speeches, 1946-1999; Series VII, Paul Tillich (1886-1965); Series VIII, Groups and Organizations; Series IX, Writings; and Series X, Restricted.
Series I is a small series containing correspondence with friends and family, photographs, and records relating to recreational, religious, and personal business matters.
Series II contains correspondence, most of the series is made up of copies of outgoing letters. The Series is divided into eight subseries: Subseries 1, Correspondence 1936-1958; Subseries 2, Correspondence 1958-1965; Subseries 3, Correspondence 1960-1963; Subseries 4, Correspondence 1961-1965; Subseries 5, Correspondence 1964-1966; Subseries 6, Correspondence 1965-1970; Subseries 7, Correspondence 1969-1976; Subseries 8, Sidney Mead Correspondence.
Subseries 1 through 7 are divided chronologically, the overlapping periodization of some of the series follows Brauer's organizational scheme. Within each series the correspondence is arranged alphabetically by correspondent. Lists of the correspondents in each folder can be found in Series II. Most of the correspondence relates to Brauer's professional life as a dean, professor, historian, mentor, and author.
Subseries 8 contains correspondence between Brauer and Sidney Mead. Mead (1904-1999) was a noted historian of American religious history and author of The Lively Experiment: The Shaping of Christianity in America (1963). The correspondence reflects both shared intellectual ties and a long friendship between the two men.
Series III, Federated Theological Faculties, consists of alphabetical subject files relating to Brauer's involvement with the Federated Theological Faculties. The formation of the FTF in 1943, formalized the relationships between the Divinity School at the University of Chicago, Disciples Divinity House, Meadville Theological School and the Chicago Theological Seminary. Brauer served as the first and only dean of FTF from 1955 until the federation was dissolved in 1960. Materials in the Series include administrative reports, minutes and correspondence, items related to the creation of the B.D. degree. The series also includes information about the defederation of FTF, organizations in which Brauer was a member, and a significant amount of material relating to the conference “Religion Faces the Atomic Age,” held in 1958.
Series IV, Divinity School, contains two subseries: Subseries 1, Subject Files and Subseries 2, Faculty Materials. Many of the files in Subseries 1 deal with the administration of the Divinity School where Brauer was dean from 1960 through 1970. Other files include material on groups, organizations, committees, and universities with ties to Brauer. The files contain a significant amount of information relating to student activism and protest on the University of Chicago Campus in the late 1960s. The visit of Cardinal Suenens to campus in 1964, is also well documented in the collection.
Subseries 2, Faculty Materials consists primarily of unpublished academic papers written by divinity school faculty arranged alphabetically within the series.
Series V, Research and Course Notes, contains two subseries: Subseries 1, Dissertation Notes and Drafts and Subseries 2, Research Documents and Notes. Subseries I contains notes, draft chapters, and correspondence relating to Brauer's dissertation, “Francis Rous, Puritan Mystic, 1579-1659: An Introduction to the Study of the Mystical Element in Puritanism,” which he completed in 1949 at the University of Chicago.
Subseries 2, Documents and Notes, also contains materials relating to Brauer's research in religious history, particularly the history of Puritanism, revivalism, and mysticism. The series also includes notes for courses taken by Brauer as a graduate student in the Divinity School, notes and syllabi for classes given by Brauer, and some syllabi for classes given by other faculty members.
Series VI, Sermons and Speeches, contains draft copies of sermons and speeches given by Brauer. They include commencement addresses, memorials, and academic lectures.
Series VII contains personal and professional correspondence between Brauer, Paul Tillich, and Hannah Tillich as well as secondary materials relating to Tillich including published essays, reviews, and clippings. The Series also includes draft copies of Paul Tillich's diaries later published as My Travel Diary, 1936: Between Two Worlds (1970). Brauer edited the diary for publication and provided an introduction.
Series VIII documents Brauer's involvement with various academic, religious and civic groups. The Series is divided into eight subseries: 1. Council on Religion and International Affairs, 2. American Society for Church History, 3. National Council of Churches of Christ, 4. Center for the Study of Religious Institutions, 5. Board of Theological Education, 6. International House of the University of Chicago. Subseries 8 includes materials related to Brauer's work as a consultant for New York State. As a consultant, Brauer investigated denominational colleges and universities to determine whether they met eligibility criteria for state financial aid under the Bundy Act.
Subseries 1, Council on Religion and International Affairs (CRIA), documents Brauer's involvement with the organization. CRIA (now know as the Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs) was founded in 1914 by Andrew Carnegie with a mission to promote world peace through research and education in ethics and international affairs. The series contains reports and proposals as well as administrative correspondence and minutes.
Subseries 2, American Society for Church History, contains materials relating to the American Society of Church History as well as it's journal Church History. The Society was founded in 1888 to promote scholarly exploration in the history of religion. Brauer was a member of the Society throughout his academic career and served as president in 1960. From 1963 to 1998, Brauer was also co-editor of Church History. The series consists primarily of reports and correspondence relating to Church History.
Subseries 3, National Council of Churches of Christ includes reports and correspondence relating to the National Council of Churches, a Protestant ecumenical organization formed in 1950. The series contains reports, correspondence, and miscellaneous materials about the organization.
Subseries 4, Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions (CSDI) contains material about Brauer's participation in the organization. CSDI began in 1954 as the Fund for the Republic, a group founded by former University of Chicago president Robert Maynard Hutchins. The Center began in response to concerns about abuses of civil liberties in the United States. In subsequent decades the CSDI went on to examine a variety of contemporary social issues. Brauer was a visiting fellow at the CSDI in 1972 and again in 1974. The subseries includes papers given at the center by Brauer and others, as well as Brauer's notes and correspondence.
Subseries 5, Board for Theological Education. BTE was an organization designed to oversee the development of Lutheran theological seminaries in the United States and more broadly, the overall development of postsecondary theological and religious training in the United States. BTE was affiliated with the United Lutheran Church in America. The series is made up primarily of administrative materials, correspondence, reports, and minutes.
Subseries 6, International House, contains materials relating to International House of Chicago. International House was found by John D. Rockefeller, Jr. in 1932 with a mission to promote cross-cultural understanding and friendship among students and scholars. The series contains correspondence, administrative materials related to Brauer's service on the International House board, and information about a Swedish International House.
Subseries 7, New York State Consultations, Bundy Funds, includes materials from Brauer's work as a consultant for the New York Education Department between 1969 and 1978. New York State passed the Bundy Act in 1968 to provide financial assistance to independent colleges. Brauer's work for the state involved examining the religious teaching and institutional culture at private denominational colleges to ascertain whether they met criteria that prohibited sectarian teaching at schools receiving Bundy monies. The subseries includes Brauer's reports about schools, supplementary materials, and correspondence.
Series IX: Writings, is made up of published and unpublished work by Brauer and others. The collection also includes a small amount of correspondence about various book projects. The series includes two subseries, 1. Book Projects and Publishers and 2. Articles and Off-prints. Subseries 1 contains drafts and correspondence about The Chicago School Reader, The Westminster Dictionary of Church History, John Nuveen: A Life in Service, and The Lively Experiment Continued, The Chicago Encyclopedia of Religion, Protestantism in America
Subseries 2, contains copies of published articles and off-prints written by Brauer and others.
Series X contains restricted materials. All materials in Series X are restricted.
Material in Subseries 1: Recent Correspondence is restricted for thirty years.
Material in Subseries 2: Financial Records is restricted for fifty years. Subseries
3: Student and Faculty Records is restricted indefinitely. Subseries 4: Audio and
Visual Recordings are restricted indefinitely due to the condition of the material or
need for special equipment.
Series I is a small series containing correspondence with friends and family, photographs, and records relating to recreational, religious, and personal business matters.
Series II contains incoming and outgoing correspondence from 1940 to 1970. Series II is divided into eight subseries: 1. Correspondence, 1936-1958, 2. Correspondence 1958-1965, 3. Correspondence 1960-1963, 4. Correspondence, 1961-1965, 5. Correspondence, 1964-1966, 6. Correspondence 1965-1970, 7. Correspondence, 1969-1976, and 8. These series preserve Brauer's own organizational scheme.
Subseries 1 through 7 are divided chronologically, the overlapping periodization of some of the series follows Brauer's organizational scheme. Within each series the correspondence is arranged alphabetically by correspondent. Lists of the correspondents in each folder can be found in Series II. Most of the correspondence relates to Brauer's professional life as a dean, professor, historian, mentor, and author
Subseries 8 contains correspondence between Brauer and Sidney Mead. Mead (1904-1999) was a noted historian of American religious history and author of The Lively Experiment: The Shaping of Christianity in America (1963). The correspondence reflects both shared intellectual ties and a long friendship between the two men.
Additional personal correspondence can be found in Series I. Series VII contains additional correspondence with and about theologian Paul Tillich. Additional restricted correspondence appears in Series X.
Series III, Federated Theological Faculties, consists of alphabetical subject files relating to Brauer's involvement with the Federated Theological Faculties. The formation of the FTF in 1943, formalized the relationships between the Divinity School at the University of Chicago, Disciples Divinity House, Meadville Theological School and the Chicago Theological Seminary. Brauer served as the first and only dean of FTF from 1955 until the federation was dissolved in 1960. Materials in the Series include administrative reports, minutes and correspondence, items related to the creation of the B.D. degree. The series also includes information about the defederation of FTF, organizations Brauer was involved with, and a significant amount of material relating to the conference "Religion Faces the Atomic Age," held in 1958.
Series IV: Divinity School contains two subseries: Subseries 1, Subject Files and Subseries 2, Faculty Materials. Many of the files in Subseries 1 deal with the administration of the Divinity School where Brauer was dean from 1960 through 1970. Other files include material on groups, organizations, committees, and universities with ties to Brauer. The files contain a significant amount of information relating to student activism and protest on the University of Chicago Campus in the late 1960s. The visit of Cardinal Suenens to campus in 1964, is also well documented in the collection.
Subseries 2, Faculty Materials consists primarily of unpublished academic papers written by divinity school faculty. The paper are arranged alphabetically by author within the series.
Series V contains Brauer's research and course notes from 1938 to 1975. Subseries I contains notes, draft chapters, and correspondence relating to Brauer's dissertation, "Francis Rous, Puritan Mystic, 1579-1659: An Introduction to the Study of the Mystical Element in Puritanism," which he completed in 1949 at the University of Chicago.
Subseries 2 contains notes and documents relating to Brauer's research in religious history, particularly the history of Puritanism, revivalism, and mysticism. The course also contains notes for courses taken by Brauer as a graduate student in the Divinity School, notes and syllabi for classes given by Brauer, and some syllabi for classes given by other faculty members.
Series VI: Sermons and Speeches contains draft copies of sermons and speeches given by Brauer. They include commencement addresses, memorials, and academic lectures.
Series VII contains personal and professional correspondence between Brauer and Paul and Hannah Tillich as well as secondary materials relating to Tillich including published essays, reviews, and clippings. The Series also includes draft copies of Paul Tillich's diaries later published as My Travel Diary, 1936: Between Two Worlds (1970). Brauer edited the diary for publication and provided an introduction. The diary was one of several memorial projects Brauer worked on after Tillich's death in 1965.
Paul Tillich was born in Germany in 1886. A philosopher and theologian, Tillich was dismissed from his position as professor of philosophy at University of Frankfurt after Hitler came to power in 1933. Tillich fled to the United States where he became Visiting Professor of Philosophy of Religion at Union Theological Seminary, he went on to serve as Associate Professor of Philosophical Theology (1937-1940, and Professor (1937-1955). When Brauer was an instructor at Union Theological Seminary from 1948 to 1950 he worked as assistant to Tillich. In 1962, Brauer was instrumental in bringing Tillich to the Divinity School as the Nuveen Professor of Theology. Tillich remained at the University for three years, until his death in 1965. The series documents the strong personal and intellectual ties between the two men.
Additional material correspondence by and about Paul and Hannah Tillich can be found in Series II.
Series VIII documents Brauer's involvement with various academic, religious and civic groups. The Series is divided into eight subseries: 1. Council on Religion and International Affairs, 2. American Society for Church History, 3. National Council of Churches of Christ, 4. Center for the Study of Religious Institutions, 5. Board of Theological Education, 6. International House of the University of Chicago. Subseries 8 includes materials related to Brauer's work as a consultant for New York State.
Subseries 1: Council on Religion and International Affairs (CRIA), documents Brauer's involvement with the organization. CRIA (now know as the Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs) was founded in 1914 by Andrew Carnegie with a mission to promote world peace through research and education in Ethics and international affairs. The series contains reports and proposals as well as administrative correspondence and minutes.
Subseries 2: American Society for Church History, contains materials relating to the American Society of Church History as well as it's journal Church History. The Society was founded in 1888 to promote scholarly exploration in the history of religion. Brauer was a member of the Society throughout his academic career and served as president in 1960. Brauer was also co-editor of Church History from 1963-1998. The series consists primarily of reports and correspondence relating to Church History.
Subseries 3: National Council of Churches of Christ includes reports and correspondence relating to the NCCC, a Protestant ecumenical organization formed in 1950. The series contains reports, correspondence, and miscellaneous materials about the organization.
Subseries 4: Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions (CSDI) contains material about Brauer's participation in the organization. CSDI began in 1954 as the Fund for the Republic, a group founded by former University of Chicago president Robert Maynard Hutchins. The Center was founded in response to concerns about abuses of civil liberties in the United States. In subsequent decades the CSDI went on to examine a variety of contemporary social issues. Brauer was a visiting fellow at the CSDI in 1972 and again in 1974. The subseries includes papers given at the center by Brauer and others, as well as Brauer's notes and correspondence.
Subseries 5: Board for Theological Education. BTE was an organization designed to oversee the development of Lutheran theological seminaries in the United States and more broadly, the overall development of postsecondary theological and religious training in the United States. BTE was affiliated with the United Lutheran Church in America. The series is made up primarily of administrative materials, correspondence, reports, and minutes.
Subseries 6: International House, contains materials relating to International House of Chicago. International House was found by John D. Rockefeller, Jr. in 1932 with a mission to promote cross-cultural understanding and friendship among students and scholars. The series contains correspondence, administrative materials related to Brauer's service on the International House board, and information about a Swedish International House.
Subseries 7: New York State Consultations, Bundy Funds, includes materials from Brauer's work as a consultant for the New York Education Department between 1969 and 1978. New York State passed the Bundy Act in 1968 to provide financial assistance to independent colleges. Brauer's work for the state involved examining the religious teaching and institutional culture at private denominational colleges to ascertain whether they met criteria that prohibited sectarian teaching at schools receiving Bundy monies. The subseries includes Brauer's reports about schools, supplementary materials, and correspondence.
Series IX: Writings, is made up of published and unpublished work by Brauer and others. The collection also includes a small amount of correspondence about various book projects. The series includes two subseries, 1. Book Projects and Publishers and 2. Articles and Off-prints. Subseries 1 contains drafts and correspondence about The Chicago School Reader, The Westminster Dictionary of Church History, John Nuveen: A Life in Service, and The Lively Experiment Continued, The Chicago Encyclopedia of Religion, Protestantism in America
Subseries 2, contains copies of published articles and off-prints written by Brauer and others.
Series X: Restricted contains four subseries. Subseries 1: Restricted Recent Correspondence is restricted until 2020. Subseries 2: Restricted Financial Records is restricted until 2019. Subseries 3 Restricted Student and Faculty Material contains materials that are indefinitely restricted. Subseries 4: Restricted Audio and Visual Materials contains items that are indefinably restricted due to its physical condition or need for Special Equipment.
The Rachel Fuller Brown Notebooks collection consists chiefly of class and laboratory notes relating to chemistry courses taken during Brown's years at the University. Included also are notes and materials from a summer course taken at Harvard University. These materials have been arranged in three series: notes identified by the name of the instructor and the course number; notes identified only by course or subject; and miscellaneous notebooks.
The material in this collection has been organized into three series. Series I includes materials documenting the founding and early history of the B.T.U., including it’s relationship with the University of Chicago. It includes correspondence, financial records, minutes, and reports. Series II documents the operations and governance of the B.T.U. from 1928 through the 1960s, and consists primarily of records relating to the organizations annual meeting and meetings of the Board of Trustees. Series III contains records similar to those in Series II, dating from the 1960s to the 1990s. Access to these records is restricted for fifty years from the date of creation, because they contain materials relating to the financial and personnel affairs of the B.T.U.
The early records of the B.T.U. previously formed parts of the collection “Baptist Theological Union and Baptist Union Theological Seminary. Records.”
The records in this series are restricted for fifty years from the date of creation.
The Digby B. Butler Papers consist of a scrapbook with material related to Butler's activities at
the Old University of Chicago and his election as judge of probate (1868-1872), a poem written and
signed by Butler (1866), and four copies of Index Universitatis (1866, 1868, and 1869).
The Baptist Union Theological Seminary Records include notes and correspondence from faculty and leaders of the Seminary, biographical and academic records of students, catalogs and brochures, and financial records.
Documents relating to the founding and operations of the Seminary may also be found in the records of the Baptist Theological Union.
The overwhelming majority of the letters of Mrs. Campbell in this collection are addressed to Mrs. Frank (Harriett) Carolan, later Mrs. Arthur Schermerhorn. In her autobiography, My Life and Some Letters (1922), Mrs. Campbell writes of Mrs. Carolan as "one of my dearest friends." Their friendship was long-standing and Mrs. Campbell often called on Mrs. Carolan for financial aid.
The letters fall mainly into two groups, one series between 1905 and 1918, and a second between 1927 and 1938. All of the letters are chatty and informal. The first series, however, deals mainly with her theatrical career. Of some interest are Mrs. Campbell's frequent pungent remarks about American audiences during her tours. Many famous people are briefly mentioned, such as George Bernard Shaw, Charles Laughton, and Katherine Cornell. Mrs. Campbell writes of the opening nights of many of her plays, of accidents, which befell her, such as when she broke her knee-cap in Philadelphia in 1905, and when her hair caught on fire during a performance. A carbon copy of a letter from her son is included in the papers. He was a British officer in World War I and fought at Gallipoli. His long letter movingly recreates the battle conditions existing on that front. He was later killed in France.
The second series, material after 1927, reveals clearly the decline in Mrs. Campbell's fortunes, her inability to find work, and her constant money difficulties. The collection includes several letters from Hollywood, where she had gone to find work, but had little success.
The collection also includes correspondence of Mrs. Campbell with others. There are also several letters to Mrs. Carolan from her daughter Stella, her son Alan ("Beo"), and her second husband, George Cornwallis-West. The collection also includes 14 photographs, 8 of Mrs. Campbell, and some playbills, broadsides, and clippings.
The bulk of this collection contains materials from the period 1942 to 1944, encompassing Carlson's time in the military service in what was then Africa's Gold Coast, Egypt, and Iran from 1942 to 1943 and his time working at the General Motors plant in Calcutta, India from 1943 to 1944. The collection contains, in varying conditions, a rich array of photographs, newspapers and newspaper clippings, and other memorabilia from these travels as well as an extensive amount of documentation related to the management and operation of the treasury department in the GM plant in Calcutta.
The LeRoy T. Carlson Papers are organized into five series: Series I, Ephemera; Series II, Calcutta; Series III, University of Chicago; Series IV, Audio-Visual; and Series V, Oversize.
Series I, Ephemera, contains items of personal interest prior to 1942, including souvenir pamphlets, brochures, and bulletins related to the Chicago World's Fair and the production and history of the Chicago Tribune. A second folder contains a government-issued pamphlet outlining the 1939 revision of the Industrial Mobilization Plan and some charts illustrating chains of command related to national defense. This series is arranged chronologically.
Series II, Calcutta, contains materials from Carlson's time in Calcutta, India working at the General Motors plant there. This series is organized into two subseries: Subseries I, General Motors, contains documentation and materials related to the design and organization of the plant as well as the operation of the treasury department; Subseries II, General, contains materials more generally related to Carlson's time living in Calcutta, including travel and informational guides and ephemera. Materials are organized chronologically within each subseries.
Series III, University of Chicago, contains materials related to Carlson's relations with the University as an alumnus and donor to the business school, including correspondences, directories of other donors, and materials from a fiftieth reunion in 1988. Two folders are dedicated to alumni relations, followed by one folder with materials from the fiftieth reunion.
Series IV, Audio-Visual, contains an extensive collection of photographs from Carlson's time in Calcutta, containing photographs of colleagues, coworkers, and friends in addition to observational and sight-seeing photographs of India. Some include handwritten notes. Eight folders are dedicated to small snapshots, followed by an unlabeled group photo presumed to be of Carlson and some of his coworkers at the factory and a framed group photo of the treasury department and collectively signed note marking Carlson's departure from the plant.
Series V, Oversize, is the largest series in the collection and is arranged as follows. Boxes 4 and 5 contain a disassembled scrapbook containing materials (photographs, newspapers, magazines booklets, and ephemera) from Carlson's travels in northern Africa, Iran, and India from 1942 to 1944. Box 6 contains scrapbooks of newspaper clippings related to the U.S. economy, elections, and the World's Fair, all from 1933, a 1934 issue of a bulletin entitled The New Deal, and an issue of the The Command Post from 1944. Box 7 contains loose newspaper clippings and an issue of the Egyptian Mail from 1944. Finally, there is an Oversize Folder containing a blueprint "T.U.P. Assembly Plant Map of Employees" from the General Motors plant in Calcutta where Carlson worked, dating from 1943.
The collection of about 1500 pieces includes Henry Castle's personal correspondence, his college essays and other miscellaneous writings and papers, the personal correspondence of Castle's immediate family, miscellaneous family papers, and typed copy and printer's proofs of a volume of Castle's letters which were edited by George and Helen Mead and privately printed for the Castle family and friends in 1902.
The collection is divided into seven series. Series I: Personal, includes records related to Henry Northrup Castle’s education, his diaries, personal ephemera, and information about the sinking of the Elbe and Castle’s death. Series II: Correspondence, contains letters written by Castle, arranged alphabetically by correspondent. The majority of the letters are written to members of Castle’s family. General ingoing and outgoing correspondence between Castle and non-family members is found at the beginning of the series. Series III: Castle Family Correspondence, comprises personal letters from Castle's immediate family, arranged chronologically under the name of each relative, as well as letters received by members of the Castle family. Series IV: Castle Family Papers, includes ephemera related to various members of the Castle family. Series V: Publication of Letters, contains material related to the arrangement, transcription, and publication of Henry Northrup Castle’s correspondence by his sister, Helen Kingsbury Castle Mead, and his brother-in-law, George Herbert Mead. Series VI: Photographs, contains photographs of the Castle family and of Henry Northrup Castle and his daughter, Dorothy. Series VII: Oversize, contains galley proofs for Castle’s published letters.
Most of the original manuscripts of the published letters are included in the collection, as well as many unpublished letters and papers. The decision for or against publication of entire letters seems to have been based on technical problems rather than content, although occasional personal references were deleted. Since George and Helen Mead were responsible for the editing of the correspondence a natural reticence on their part seems to have motivated the withholding of scattered comments about their private lives. The original letters should always be consulted in preference to the published text to make certain that nothing of importance has been deleted. The original edited letters are always marked in blue pencil. Unpublished letters have the symbol "O" at the top of the first page or were not marked by the Meads.
(Persons interested in Mead will find references to him beginning with Castle's letters of the Oberlin period (c.1979-1883). Mead is most often mentioned, or entire letters are most often addressed to him, during the time when Castle was urging him to come to Harvard (c.1886-1887), and when the two friends were in Germany together (c.1893-1894). Letters to and from Helen Castle Mead after 1891 also reveal information about the philosopher(s early career.)
Fourteen personal letters from Mead, all unpublished, are found in the collection, but much of the correspondence addressed to Castle, other than personal family letters, is not included, and its present whereabouts is unknown. It can be assumed that this correspondence not only would contain more letters of philosophical content from Mead, but revealing letters about Hawaiian political affairs which Castle would have received as an influential newspaper editor.
A helpful list of the family members, their births and deaths, was found in the collection and is filed in Box 7, Folder 8.
The collection consists of the minutes of the Committee, the correspondence of Leonard D. White, who was Chairman and Treasurer, and the financial statements of the Committee and lists of those who made financial contributions. There is also a miscellaneous folder containing two letter heads.
The Contemporary Chamber Players Records includes the ensemble's correspondence, financial records, touring information, publicity material, performance information, and audio recordings of performances.
Series I: Composer Correspondence contains incoming and outgoing correspondence with composers based nationally and internationally. Correspondence with composers of note is filed alphabetically, while general composer correspondence is filed chronologically. This series spans the years 1964-1990.
Series II: Performer Correspondence includes incoming and outgoing correspondence with performers both inclusive and exclusive of the Contemporary Chamber Players ensemble. Also contained in this series are the materials sent to Contemporary Chamber Players by prospective performers, including curricula vitae, brochures and photographs. This series spans the years 1964-1991.
Series III: Performance Correspondence contains both incoming and outgoing correspondence discussing performances at the University of Chicago as well as tour performances. Related information, such as sample programs and brochures are included. Also included in this series is correspondence with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. This series spans the years 1964-1987.
Series IV: Administrative Correspondence includes incoming and outgoing correspondence involving administrative and financial transactions both inside and outside the University of Chicago, score rental requests and invoices, and correspondence related to recordings and studio sessions. This series spans the years 1964-1990.
Series V: General Correspondence contains both incoming and outgoing correspondence with friends and benefactors of Contemporary Chamber Players, as well as general enquirers about the ensemble both within and outside of the University of Chicago. Also included is correspondence between Ralph Shapey and various staff and faculty members, friends, and general enquirers. This series spans the years 1964-1991.
Series VI: Tours contains documents pertaining to tours and tour performances, including incoming and outgoing correspondence referring to specific tour performances, tour performance notes, brochures, press clippings, personnel notes, invoices and tour budgetary information. This series spans the years 1965-1974.
Series VII: Financial, contains documents pertaining to finances and budget of Contemporary Chamber Players. Included are invoices and expense reports for Contemporary Chamber Players, as well as financial materials involving both the Fromm Music Foundation and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. This series spans the years 1963-1987.
Series VIII: Grants and Fellowships, includes grant proposals and outgoing and incoming correspondence relating to specific grants. This series also contains documents pertaining to the Contemporary Chamber Players Fellowship Program, including grant applications, grant correspondence between applicants and recipients and the Contemporary Chamber Players, and curricula vitae. This series spans the years 1963-1990.
Series IX: Personnel, contains ensemble personnel information and documents pertaining to the Musicians' Union. This series spans the years 1964-1978.
Series X: Press and Media, includes press clippings and coverage of Contemporary
Chamber Players and Ralph Shapey, performance reviews, concert advertisements, press releases and documents and correspondence pertaining to television and radio appearances. This series spans the years 1964-2002.
Series XI: Photographs, contains photographs of Contemporary Chamber Players performers and performances, as well as photographic material used for Contemporary Chamber Players brochures and posters. This series spans 1966-2002.
Series XII: Performance and Promotion, contains materials pertaining to ensemble
performances, including promotional materials such as posters and performance programs, notes and correspondence relating to specific concert performances, instrumentation sheets, and concert and rehearsal schedules. Also included are documents related to the Lexington Quartet and Contemporary Concerts, Inc. This series spans the years 1958-2002.
Series XIII: Oversize includes all oversized Contemporary Chamber Players concert posters and photographs and one musical score. This series spans the years 1964-1982.
Series XIV: Audio, spans the years 1966-1996, and includes audio and video recordings in a variety of formats. The recordings document Contemporary Chamber Players performances, rehearsals, studio sessions, seminars and panels. The series also includes samples of work sent to Ralph Shapey by composers interested in the group.
Series XV, Restricted, contains financial and administrative records restricted for 50 years from the date of creation, and evaluative material restricted for 80 years.
This series contains both incoming and outgoing correspondence with composers based nationally and internationally. Correspondence with composers of note, or with those composers with whom Contemporary Chamber Players had a close relationship, are filed alphabetically (as listed in each folder description), while the general composer correspondence and inquiries which follow are filed chronologically. This series spans the years 1964-1990.
This series makes up the majority of composer correspondence in the collection, though some composer correspondence is included with Series VII, X and XII, interfiled with related documents.
This series includes incoming and outgoing correspondence with performers both within and outside of the Contemporary Chamber Players ensemble. Also contained in this series are the materials sent to Contemporary Chamber Players by prospective performers, including curricula vitae, brochures and photographs. This series is filed chronologically, and spans the years 1964-1991.
This series makes up the majority of performer correspondence in the collection, though some performer correspondence is included with Series VI, IX and XII, interfiled with related documents.
This series contains both incoming and outgoing correspondence discussing performances at the University of Chicago as well as tour performances. This series is divided into two subseries, and spans the years 1964-1987, and is filed chronologically.
Subseries 1: General, includes information relating to performance inquiries and tour invitations. Related information, such as sample programs and brochures are included.
Subseries 2: Chicago Symphony Orchestra, contains materials pertaining to performances with or including the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
This series makes up the majority of performer correspondence in the collection, though some correspondence referencing specific performances is included with Series VI and XII, interfiled with related documents.
This series includes incoming and outgoing correspondence involving administrative and financial transactions both inside and outside the University of Chicago, score rental requests and invoices, and correspondence related to recordings and studio sessions. While the majority of the administrative correspondence is filed chronologically, there are several folders containing correspondence with specific entities. These folders are filed alphabetically by title. This series spans the years 1964-1990.
This series makes up only part of the administrative correspondence in the collection, as administrative correspondence is also included with Series VI- XII, interfiled with related documents.
This series contains both incoming and outgoing correspondence with friends and benefactors of Contemporary Chamber Players, as well as with general enquirers both within and outside of the University of Chicago. Also included is correspondence between Ralph Shapey and various staff and faculty members, friends, and general enquirers. This series is filed chronologically, and spans the years 1964-1991.
This series contains only part of the general correspondence in the collection, as general correspondence is found in Series VI-XII, interfiled with related documents.
This series contains documents pertaining to tours and tour performances, including incoming and outgoing correspondence referring to specific tour performances, tour performance notes, brochures, press clippings, personnel notes, invoices and tour budgetary information. Files on specific events are organized chronologically by date. General tour materials are filed in an additional chronological sequence. Also included is a file containing invoices. This series spans the years 1965-1974.
This series contains documents pertaining to finances and budget of Contemporary Chamber Players, and is separated into three subseries. This series spans the years 1963-1987.
Subseries 1: Contemporary Chamber Players includes invoices, correspondence, and expense reports for Contemporary Chamber Players. General materials are filed chronologically, while more specific materials are filed alphabetically by folder title.
Subseries 2: Fromm Foundation includes financial materials involving the Fromm Music Foundation, which helped fund many Contemporary Chamber Players activities.
Subseries 3: Chicago Symphony Orchestra includes financial documents relating to Chicago Symphony Orchestra performances with which the University of Chicago was involved.
A brief description (ca. 50-100 words) of the material found in this series. Include after each series heading.
This series contains Contemporary Chamber Players personnel information. Included are documents pertaining to the Musicians' Union, as well as performer lists and biographical information.
Additional materials related to Contemporary Chamber Players personnel and ensemble invoices are found in Series II, VII and XII.
This series includes press clippings and other media coverage of the Contemporary Chamber Players and Ralph Shapey, Easley Blackwood, and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. Included are newspaper performance reviews, Contemporary Chamber Players press releases, and documents and correspondence pertaining to television and radio appearances. Also included are reviews and clippings unrelated to Contemporary Chamber Players. This series spans the years 1964-2002.
This series contains photographs of Contemporary Chamber Players performers and performances, as well as photographic material used for Contemporary Chamber Players brochures and posters. Also included are photographs of Chicago Symphony Orchestra performances.
Additional promotional performer photographs are found in Series II, while oversize photographs are found in Series XIII. This series spans 1966-2002.
This series contains materials pertaining to Contemporary Chamber Players performances and the promotion of those performances. It is divided into two subseries, and spans the years 1958-2002.
Subseries 1: Promotional Materials, includes materials Contemporary Chamber Players used for concert promotion, such as posters, performance programs, brochures and mailers, as well as source material utilized for program notes.
Subseries 2: Performance Information contains master lists of performances, notes and correspondence relating to specific concert performances, instrumentation sheets, and concert and rehearsal schedules. Also included are documents related to the Lexington Quartet and Contemporary Concerts, Inc.
Additional correspondence relating to performances can be found in Series III and V, while additional documents relating to touring performances are found in Series VI.
This series includes all oversized Contemporary Chamber Players concert posters and photographs, a musical score, and a poster for the Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra conducted by Ralph Shapey. The series spans the years 1964-1982.
Oversize posters were transferred from Series XII, Subseries 1, while oversize photographs were transferred from Series XI.
This series spans the years 1966-1996, and includes audio and video recordings of Contemporary Chamber Players performances, rehearsals, studio sessions, seminars and panels. It also contains recordings of the work of composers with whom Shapey corresponded, and a few tapes intended for use in performances.
There are two ranges of audio recordings. Each is arranged first by format, and the recordings in boxes 18-47 are then arranged chronologically by recording date. Recordings in boxes 48-54 are arranged alphabetically by composer.
Formats include 10-inch, 7-inch, and 5-inch diameter reel-to-reel tape, audio cassette, compact disc (CD) and digital audio tape (DAT). Many of the CDs and DATs are reformatted copies of original reel-to-reel tapes in the series; most of the reformatted recordings are of Ralph Shapey's performances with CCP.
Video recordings are in Beta format, and are organized chronologically in box 47.
Many of the CDs and DATs are marked with additional sequential numbers; because these number sequences are incomplete and do not represent chronological organization, they have not been documented in the inventory.
This series contains financial and administrative records restricted for 50 years from the date of creation, and evaluative material restricted for 80 years.
The University of Chicago Central Administration Letterbooks contain carbon copies of outgoing correspondence of university presidents, vice-presidents, and other officials, between the years 1927 and 1957. Each volume includes an index. The correspondence covers academic and administrative matters.
The Committee to Frame a World Constitution Records contains correspondence and miscellaneous material. This collection reflects the close relations between the Committee and other organizations advocating some form of world government. Specifically, the papers are comprised of the files of the Committee secretariat, which was also the editorial staff for Common Cause. They include the 150 documents used as the basis for the discussions in the thirteen meetings of the Committee; the stenographic transcriptions of the meetings; a complete set of Common Cause and a single copy of The Draft. The Records also include correspondence concerning Committee administrative matters, publication, and business arrangements, comments on Common Cause and the preliminary draft of the Constitution, and miscellaneous manuscript materials.
The Committee to Frame a World Constitution Records are divided into six series.
This series includes inter-office memoranda to the Committee staff; inter-University memoranda concerning housekeeping matters; some subscription matters; correspondence with authors concerning copies of articles; intra-Committee correspondence; magazine exchange arrangements; and correspondence relating to lay-out and publication of Common Cause. (This material is often supplemented in Series II, Correspondence.)
This series consists of the correspondence to Common Cause requesting copies, information, and subscriptions; correspondence with authors; concerning dissemination of the journal; personal-official letters with various leaders and organizations in the World Federation Movement; business arrangements of the Committee and its Journal with other organizations; publishing and printing matters; letters of transmittal of Preliminary Draft and copies of Journal; a few letters including individual plans for world government. This material is arranged alphabetically and in the order in which it was received from the Committee.
This series includes letters to the Committee and the Journal commenting upon the Draft Constitution and/or the Journal of the Committee, Common Cause, and its articles. Many of the letters are from correspondents who have plans of their own and are bringing them to the attention of the Committee and the Journal.
This series consists of manuscript copies of articles appearing in the Journal, lectures, and speeches by men prominent or connected with the Committee or the Journal relevant to the World Federation Movement, e.g., Borgese, Hutchins, Quincy Wright, and others. The series also includes typescript, holograph, and mimeographed copies of the documents issued by the Committee in the Document Series 1-150.
This series is made up of mimeographed copies of Committee Documents 1--150. These documents consist of the original proposals and plans for the Committee, and the various papers submitted by its members to be used as a basis for discussion and the eventual formation of a Preliminary Draft Constitution.
This series includes the stenographic transcripts of the Committee Meetings, mimeographed.
The Caleb Stockton Chambers Collection contains 6 items. These items are all letters written to Stockton from various members of his family – including his father, Arthur, his mother, Elainor, and his grandmother, Jane McFarland - while he was at college in Washington, PA. Five of the letters are silked. The letters date from late 1832 to mid-1833. All letters are arranged in chronological order. ;
;
The collection was previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.;
;
The University of Chicago Chess Club Records contains extensive documentation of the chess club’s activities from 1965 to 1983. These materials were collected and compiled by Harold Winston, a former president of the chess club, historian of the Intercollegiate Chess Association, and Chairman/CEO of the World Chess Hall of Fame. Among the documents contained here are membership lists, official rankings of chess club members, match summaries and results, and financial records. Members of the club were also active in promoting chess on campus, and many broadsides announcing intramural tournaments and chess-related lectures are collected here. Additionally, the collection includes numerous newspaper clippings relating to the chess club’s back-to-back Pan-American Intercollegiate Chess Championships in 1972 and 1973. Also documented is significant information on the founding of the Chicago Intercollegiate Chess League, a citywide conference comprised of teams from the University of Chicago, Northwestern University, Loyola University, Roosevelt University, the University of Illinois-Chicago, Southwestern City College, and Loop City College. Included are the league’s constitution, correspondence, newsletters, and match results from 1969 to 1977.
The Dorothy Crowder Chessman Papers consist of a manuscript from 1987 titled “University of Chicago Days.” In it Chessman describes her experiences as a student at the University of Chicago.
The Chicago Alumnae Club Papers consist of one box containing minutes (1929-1938), historical notes about the club (1898-1941), publicity and club notices (1924-1941), and programs and invitations (1913-1942) covering the years from 1898 to 1942.
The Hillary Chute Collection contains 27 comics from 1972-1994, including four issues of The Cat (Marvel, 1972-3), 20 issues of Catwoman (DC, 1989-1994), and one issue each of Green Arrow (DC, 1994), Felicia Hardy: The Black Cat (Marvel, 1994) and Wizard Magazine (1994), a monthly magazine about comic books which ran from 1991-2011.
The four The Cat comics in this collection are the only comics featuring the Cat. Catwoman: Her Sister’s Keeper (Folder 9, the collection of issues 1-4 in folders 5-8) was the first solo mini-series for Catwoman, who had previously appeared in Batman comics. The ten sequential issues of Catwoman in Box 2 (Folders 3-13) are significant as they make up the beginning of Catwoman’s first ongoing solo series. The issue of Felicia Hardy: The Black Cat (Marvel, 1994, folder 16) is one of four in this character’s first solo limited series; her first ongoing solo series began in 2019.
The Chicago Mechanics’ Institute Records document the organization's activities and operations from 1843 to 1941. They are organized into five series: Series I: General Records; Series II: Artifacts and Photographs; Series III: Students; Series IV: Board of Directors; and Series V: Finances. Included in this collection are historical materials, legal documents, minutes of meetings, membership lists, financial records, and correspondence concerning the institute's educational activities.
Series I, General Records, contains some of the earliest documents from the Chicago Mechanic’s Institute including the act of incorporation, Azel Peck’s will, by-laws, pamphlets, and general letters sent to the institute.
Series II, Artifacts and Photographs, contains a half-tone cut and two photographs of Canal Street, as well as a publication that includes the designs of Jonathan Clark’s Metal Worker’s Building.
Series III, Student Records, contains records of admissions, student registrations, classes students enrolled, graded received, payments, as well as scholarships some student received.
The first subseries, General Student Records, contain students registered, payments, and final grades. It also contains receipts of charges made to the Chicago Business College for their payment of student’s enrollment in courses at the Chicago Mechanics’ Institute from 1917 to 1933. It also contains documents from the Children’s Scholarship League that paid the cost for several students to attend the school from 1931 to 1940. The latter documents describe student’s families, financial difficulties, and their academic performance.
The second subseries contain Vouchers that were paid by the Chicago Business College and the Children’s Scholarship League for students to attend the institute from 1919 to 1941. It also contains deposits statements and other financial investments of the institute.
Series IV, Board of Directors, contains a list of board members, financial information, and minutes of meetings.
The first subseries, General, contains lists of Board Members, applications for life time memberships, and reports sent to the Board from 1873 to 1923.
The second subseries, Minutes of Meetings, contains minutes of meetings from 1875 to 1914. The minutes from 1875 to 1888 are hand written, and starting in 1889 most of the minutes are typed. It also contains information regarding properties that the institute owned that the institute received from Azel Peck’s will.
Series V, Finances, contains financial information from 1867 to 1941in the form of receipts, checkbook stubs, statements, and notebooks.
The first subseries, General Finances, contain a tax abstract, treasurer’s reports, a cash book, and financial statements.
The second subseries contains Checkbook Stubs from 1893 to 1938.
The third subseries contains Receipts from 1900 to 1909.
The collection has been divided into six series. Series I, General Correspondence includes exchanges related to Cook's work in Liberia and with his scientific colleagues. Series II, Personal Correspondence, primarily contains letters between Cook and Alice Carter, who he married in 1892. Series III contains documents related to Liberia, as does Series VI (oversize materials.) Series IV includes photographs of Liberia and the Canary Islands. Series V is a biographical calendar of Cook's life, prepared by his daughter Helen Newman.
These letters are organized alphabetically, and include correspondence from J. Braman of the Trustees of Donations for Education in Liberia, Charles Geyer of the New York Colonization Society, and Reverend George Goll of the Board of Foreign Missions, as well as letters from colleagues who participated in his survey of Mount Coffee, Liberia, such as botanists Guy Collins and Fred Straub. There is extensive correspondence with Lucien M. Underwood, Cook's teacher at Syracuse University.
This series primarily consists of correspondence between Orator Cook and Alice Carter, who he married in 1892. These letters highlight their private interests and concerns, but also contain information pertaining to Cook's whereabouts during his travels and his general plans. Miscellaneous letters from other family members also appear in this series, as well as some of Alice's letters to friends at Mount Holyoke College where she taught botany.
These documents include articles and clippings on Liberia, information on Liberian folklore, articles on botany, and miscellaneous business material.
These are black and white photographs of the people and landscape of Liberia and the Canary Islands, 1890s-1900s, in various formats. Some of the photographs are identified on the verso.
These documents are a general biographical calendar. This calendar description of Cook's life spans 1891-1897. It was prepared by his daughter, Helen Newman.
This series primarily holds newspapers and other printed material from Liberia.
The John M. Coulter Papers contain the correspondence and personal papers of Coulter's parents. These items relate mainly to the brief missionary tour of the Coulters at the Presbyterian Mission at Ningbo, China, which was terminated by Moses Coulter's death in 1853. The collection also includes letters and school mementos, drafts of many of Coulter's postwar lectures and articles, and miscellaneous papers relating to his activities during the last five years of his life. These activities included a trip to China and Japan in 1923, a project to write biographies for college students of important men of science, and the directorship of Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research at Yonkers, New York.
The collection is divided into two series. Series I includes letters and personal papers evidently preserved by Mrs. Caroline E. Coulter relating mainly to the brief missionary tour of the Coulters at the Presbyterian Mission at Ningbo, China, which was terminated by Moses Coulter's death in 1853. Series II comprises the principal portion of the collection is made up of letters and school mementos preserved by John M. Coulter’s mother and his mother-in-law, Anna M. Gaylord, drafts of many of Coulter's postwar lectures and articles, and miscellaneous papers relating to his activities during the last five years of his life: a trip to China and Japan in 1923, a project to write biographies for college students of important men of science, and the directorship of Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research at Yonkers, New York.
This series includes letters and personal papers evidently preserved by Mrs. Caroline E. Coulter. They relate mainly to the brief missionary tour of the Coulters at the Presbyterian Mission at Ningbo, China, which was terminated by Moses Coulter's death in 1853. The highlight of this portion of the collection is a small group of letters written to Mrs. Coulter by friends still in Ningbo following her return to the United States in 1854 with her two small sons, John and Stanley (sometimes referred to as "Diddi" in the letters). These letters describe the continuing activities of the mission in the mid- and late 1850's and early 1860's and give some picture of the attitudes of the missionaries themselves.
This series comprises the principal portion of the collection is made up of letters and school mementos preserved by John M. Coulter’s mother and his mother-in-law, Anna M. Gaylord, drafts of many of Coulter's postwar lectures and articles, and miscellaneous papers relating to his activities during the last five years of his life: a trip to China and Japan in 1923, a project to write biographies for college students of important men of science, and the directorship of Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research at Yonkers, New York.
This collection contains Crerar, Adams & Co. trade catalogs from 1922 and 1938, as well as a ca. 1957 reprint of a 1948 catalog. Also found in this collection is a variety of correspondence and other documentation of the management of the estates of Edward S. and Julia M. Shepherd.
Manuscript collection of cooking recipes, in two volumes. Volume One: Recipes in alphabetical order, with additional loose recipes in multiple hands, laid in. Inscribed: "Recipe Book" inside front board. Embossed back page: "A. Turnbull's Union Square Book Stationery & Music Store, 879 Broadway NY," and inscribed: "Bill W. Niles." Bound in cloth. Volume Two: Miscellaneous manuscript recipes and home remedies, in record book. Includes miscellaneous newspaper clippings, pasted in, with additional loose recipes in multiple hands, laid in. Inscribed front cover: "Recipes." Bound in marbled paper over boards.
Manuscript collection in several hands, of cooking recipes and home remedies from Liverpool, England. Bound in black leather.
Handwritten cookbook, based upon classes at Edward Kidder's London cooking school. Printed on facing page [title page missing?]: "To all young ladies at Edw. Kidders Pastry School in Little Lincoln's Inn-feilds [sic], are taught all sorts of pastry and cookery, Dutch-hollow works, & butter works on Thursday, Fridays-Saturday..." Ex libris: "A. Adams-Reilly," and "Howard Levis." Bound in calf. Binder's title: "Manuscript Cookery Book, ca. 1730." See also Edward Kidder, Receipts for Pastry and Cookery, (London: 1740).
Manuscript cookbook preceded by Ladurelle's dedication of the manuscript to Monsieur Druart, Curé de Baulny. Includes calendar of a culinary year, lists of utensils, spices, and prepared menus. Also includes descriptive summary of contents by Bertrand Guégan, in 20th-century hand, interleaved. Accompanied by typescript, partial translation of Guégan's summary into English, with additional commentary, pasted in. Inscribed on front cover: "Ladurelle. Cuisine. manuscrit." Ex libris: "Bertrand Guégan." Bound in marbled paper over boards. See also Guégan, La Fleur de la cuisine Français, (Paris: 1920).
Typescript, biographical essay on Goethe's medical history and interests in medicine.
Typed carbon copies in German, of geological studies made of chalky formations at Frankfurt-am-Main, and of caves at Stromberg and Dinkelberg. Illustrated with photographs, pasted in, and oversize diagrams, folded in. Volume One: "Das Karst und Höhlengebiet am Dinkelberg." Volume Two: "Der Karst von Stromberg und seine Höhlen." Bound in paper over board.
Manuscript study of lichens. Extensively illustrated with pen and ink, and ink and watercolor drawings. I) "Phyllocarpa"; II) "Scyphophori"; III) "Cladonia"; IV) "Helopodia"; V) "Pyenothelia." Purchased from G. W. Walford, 1957. Catalogue listing tipped in. Bound in contemporary half calf over marbled boards.
Handwritten copy in German, of Kayser's article, "Die devonischen Bildungen der Eifel." Originally published in Zeitschrift der deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft, XXIII Band, (1871). Includes tables, and table of contents. Illustrated with one diagram, folded in. Copy made by Carl Riemann. Inscribed: "(Aus der) Zeitschr. der deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft, XXIII Band, pag. 289-376, 1871. excerpirt von Carl Riemann Marburg im Marz 1884." Signed on flyleaf: "Carl Riemann." Bound in three-quarter cloth over paper-covered boards.
Manuscript copy of text, and pen and ink copies after plates selected from Flora danica (Copenhagen: 1761-99), accompanied by descriptive notes from W. Hudson, Flora anglica (London: 1762). Also includes manuscript of abridged selections from G. Acerbi, Travels through Sweden, Finland, and Lapland to the North Cape in the years 1798 and 1799 (London: 1802). Copy made by William Markwick. Inscribed in different, 20th century hand [J. Christian Bay?] on flyleaf: "by Wm Markwick of Catsfield, Sussex, c.1780." Gift of J. Christian Bay. Bound in contemporary vellum over boards.
Manuscript copies in ruled journal excerpting essays from various sources including The Philosophical Journal and Advocate of Natural History (June: 1835); the Royal Linnean Society's Minute Book; [Ben] Silliman's Journal; and American Antiquities. Crerar Manuscripts includes only Volume One, no. 2 out of series of numbered journals. Bound in red buckram.
Contains letters from Spallanzani to Fortunato Mandelli, Leopoldo Marco Antonio Caldani,and an unknown correspondent. Also includes a 19th-century copy after Angelo Pallaveri, "Commemorazione di Lazzaro Spallanzani," that contains a short biography and list of Spallanzani's works.I) Lazzaro Spallanzani, Modena, to Fortunato Mandelli, Venezia, March 8, 1768, A.L.S., 1 p.; II) Lazzaro Spallanzani, Padua, to Leopold Marco Antonio Caldani, December 24, 1787, A.L.S., 5 p.; III) Lazzaro Spallanzani, Scandiano, to an unidentified person, November 11, 1793, A.L.S., 1 p.; IV) holograph, 19th-century copy in Italian after Angelo Pallaveri, "Commemorazione di Lazzaro Spallanzani," (Brecia: 1870) featuring short biography and list of Spallanzani's works, 1 p.; V) [20th century?] holograph notes, 2 p.
Manuscript of official report of the verbal proceedings of the Classe des Scienceae, Physiques, et Math‚matiques, Institut de France, 31 August 1812, presenting the findings of [Claude] Berthollet, Jauquelin, and Chenard, regarding Cluzel's work with "liquid sulfur." Findings approved and adopted by the Classe des Scienceae, and document signed: "Certifi‚ conforme … l'original, le Secretaire perp‚tuel, Chevalier de l'Empire, G[eorges] Cuvier." Document issued on printed letterhead, with engraved emblem. No Crerar accession number. University of Chicago accession number 92-39.
Formal holograph lecture notes, taken by Russell Sage, Jr. at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York. Volume One: "Rational mechanics." Volume Two: "Physical mechanics." Volume Three: "Technical mechanics." Signed on flyleaf, "Russell Sage 2c, Troy N. York." Bound in three-quarter leather over green cloth.
Manuscript text in two volumes, on mathematics. Illustrated with colored diagrams. Volume One: "Spherical Geometry, or Stereographic Problems." Volume Two: "Algebra." Ex libris: "W. Heffer from W. Heffer-Sons, Ltd., Cambridge." Bound in contemporary one-quarter leather over marbled boards.
Typescript paper, on geometry. Illustrated with blueprints and charts.
Scrapbooks containing manuscript notes, correspondence, advertisements, clippings, and diagrams. Material relates to motors. All material tipped or pasted in. Volume one: "Experiments - Researches, Plan - Data...Relating to Domestic Motors." Volume two: Clippings or articles on electro-magnetic, locomotive, gas, air, steam, and rotary engines. Volume three: Clippings on electromagnetic power, with advertisements and articles on sewing and flying machines, and manuscript notes on motors.
Facsimile of title page, leaves 27-40, and two illustrations from part II of Joannis Poleni "Miscellenea." Also includes typewritten English translation of "Miscellanea" by J. Lestrohan, as "Miscellaneous Scientific Works of John Poleni." Gift of Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co. Bound in olive buckram.
Scrapbook of clippings from the United States, England, France, Germany, and Italy, concerning early attempts at manned flight made ca. 1870-1910. Includes related correspondence, holograph notes and articles, typed copies of articles, and photographs. All materials tipped in or pasted on heavy brown paper. Assembled by Octave Chanute. Bound in cardboard binder.
The Edwin Raymond Le Count Papers are organized into two series: Series 1: Personal; Series II: Professional; Series III: Oversized. The collection includes correspondence, notebooks, writings, newspaper clippings, drawings, dinner invitations, various certificates, contracts, legal documents, and his certificate of membership as a Free Mason. Materials date between 1886 and 1935. The majority of the materials date between 1910 and 1930. The papers provide insight into Le Count’s activities both at the university as well as within the field of scholarship, particularly as detailed through his correspondence with others in the field.
Series I, Personal, contains personal letters, drawings, newspapers he kept, dinner invitations, social gathering requests, programs from events attended, correspondence with Dean Lewis, materials related to the organization and collection of the Ricketts Fund.
Series II, Professional, includes documents and records relation to Le Count’s professional life. It contains correspondence concerning research and academia, acceptance into different conferences and journals, article request, legal and government documents, Le Count’s personal writings and two notebooks.
Series III, Oversized, contains the largest materials in the collection. They include certificate of admission to academic societies, certificate of commission as Pathologist Attending at Cook County Hospital, high school diploma, M.D. diploma, and a certificate of medical license.
Contains correspondence, manuscript notes, bibliography, printed essays, photostats, and typed notes on early aviation. Partly collected by J. Sherwin Murphy. Includes transcribed typewritten copies of correspondence between Herring and Octave Chanute, selected by Pearl I. Young.
Scrapbook of published papers on aeronautics by H. Moedebeck. Includes printed copy of "Die Elasticität der Feder und des Flugels" (Zeitschrift für Luftschiffahrt und Physik der Atmosphäre, 1895) and "Der Bau des Registrirballons 'Strassburg' (Zeitschrift für Luftschiffahrt und Physik der Atmosphäre, 1897). Also includes a manuscript of the English translation of the first article, "On the Elasticity of the Feather and the Wing;" a summary in English of the second article; and a typescript of Moedebeck's essay, "The International Meteorological Balloon Ascensions." Material was collected by Octave Chanute
Printed and handwritten reports in German, on medical and physician's taxes in Mecklenburg-Schwerin. I) Printed report, "Arznei-taxe fr das Grossherzogthum Mecklenburg-Schwerin, 1843," annotated and interleaved with holograph charts; II) Holograph report, "Neue medicinal-taxe fr das Grossherzogthum Mecklenburg-Schwerin vom December 21, 1844"; III) Holograph report, "Taxe fr die gerichtliche Aerzte u. Wund„rzte vom 21 December 1844." Pencilled on the first page in a 20th century hand: "Mecklenburg-Schwerin/ Medicinal Taxe." Bound in brown buckram.
Scrapbook of typescript, manuscript, and printed material relating to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, Galena and Chicago Union Railroad, John Frink Express Company, and American Express Company. Includes letters, instructions to agents, orders, bills, receipts, contracts, rates of fare, and additional reports of local railroads and other companies, including Western Union.
Photostat copy of original manuscript report by George Whistler to Count Kleinmichel on the gauge of track to be used in the St. Petersburg and Moscow Railroad. Also includes typescript copy of the manuscript and a copy of a letter from Ralph Budd offering the copies to the Newberry Library (1944)
Scrapbook of correspondence, completed questionnaires, draft reports, and news clippings. Material relates to the investigation of the American pork industry by a special committee appointed by the President of the United States
Manuscript study on the public and economic administration of the Netherlands. Delivered as lectures at the University of Leiden, 1806-1807. Volume I contains table of contents for both volumes. Volume I, Part 1 contains "De Natuürlijke gesteldheid van den Nederl:Staat;" Part 2 contains "Over den Zedelijken toeftand", including sections on "Het Nederlandsche Volk, beschounwdin zijn bestaan"; "Over de Bevolking"; "Over het karakter der Natie"; and "Over de Welraart der Natie & takken of middelen van bestaan": Part 3 contains "De Handwerken of Manufacturen, Trafijken & Fabrijken." Volume II, Part 4 contains "Koophandel & Zeeraartz," including sections on "Handel met Engeland" [...met Frankrijk, Rúsland, Portugal, etc.], "Staat Handels-balans," and "Geldhandel als koopwaar aangmerkt"; Part 5 contains "Financie-Wezen."
On first t.p.: Adrianus Kluit, Antig: & 4ist: Dipl: Prof. Ord: in Universitate Leidendi/Voorlezingen over de Statistiek of Staatshuishoudkunde der Verëenigde Nederlanden ..., 1806 & 1807.
Delivered as lectures at the University of Leiden, 1806-1807.
Ex libris: C. V. Gerritsen.
Text in Dutch, title in Latin.
Typescript records of the United Mine Workers of Illinois, documenting the inquest into the Cherry mine fire, Cherry, Illinois. Each volume contains records of sworn testimony, with coroner's report.
On cover: Evidence taken at the investigation of the Cherry mine disaster. Isabel Maclean, court reporter.
Handwritten catalog, compiled by J. Christian Bay, of titles collected by Augustus Rivinus. Listing primarily features botanical works, but includes subjects "philologico-philosophico-historicorum, itinerariorum, inprimis autem medicorum, botanicorum et historiae naturalis scriptorum &c.rariorum quam magno studio et sumptu sibi comparavit."
In Latin. Includes index. Inscribed: "Titulos librorum botanicorum ex exempl. orig in Bibl. Reg. Berolin. exscripsit anno 1908 [signed] J. Christian Bay." Bound in blue cloth.
Typed carbon copies of press releases issued by A Century of Progress, Publicity Division, Chicago, arranged in chronological order within each volume. Note that the earliest press releases are in Volume Nine.
Volume One: June, 1934. Volume Two: July 2-15, 1934. Volume Three: July 16-31, 1934. Volume Four: August 1-15, 1934. Volume Five: August 16-31, 1934. Volume Six: September 1-15, 1934. Volume Seven: September 19-29, 1934. Volume Eight: October, 1934. Volume Nine: February-May, 1934.
Typewritten comparative reports regarding financing, expenses, logistics, and publicity of the World's Columbian Exposition (Chicago, 1893), Louisiana Purchase Exhibition (St. Louis, 1904), Panama-California Exposition (San Diego, 1915), and Panama-Pacific Exposition (San Francisco, 1915). Prepared for the Chicago World's Fair Centennial Celebration, 1933.
Contents: Vol. 1.Use of newspaper space in world's fair publicity -- v. 2. Foreign exploitation: Chicago-1893, St. Louis-1904, San Francisco-1915 -- v. 3. Summary of financial statements in other world's fairs.
I) Typed carbon copy of notes taken by Dr. Bell, on Dr. Michel's method of removing exterior tumors with acidic paste. Assembled by Dr. Bell, after studying under Dr. Michel in Paris beginning in Fall, 1868. Includes preface by Dr. Bell. II) Holograph leaf of notes [by Dr. Williams], regarding Nordhausen acid, pasted on last page. Bell's notes copied by Dr. Williams. Inscribed on wrapper: "Fuming Sulphuric A[cid]. The new specialty for Cancer, [recorded] by Dr. Bell (London, England about - year 1860 - (Dr. Michel's Paste)/ This is a copy (made by Dr. Williams in year 1914)/ The Original is in the Surgeon General's Library/Washington, D.C." Bound in paper.
Contains correspondence related to the organization of a Board of Public Libraries. Also includes recommendations, reports, and charters of the City Charter Committee of the Chicago Library Club, the Committee on State Legislatiion of the City Council, and Art Commission.
Three scrapbooks containing clippings, printed tracts, correspondence, and carbon copies of articles related to the social use and abuse of alcohol. Pasted on brown paper. Collected by Stanley Prince Farwell.
Reports on committee expenditures and field investigations of Illinois orphanages, prisons, reform schools, poorhouses, and asylums.
46 platinum print photographs of sailing ships. Accompanied by handwritten descriptions of each vessel's origin and functions on verso. Also includes typescript index.
Manuscript notations charting oceanographic data on the North Sea. Entries made on printed navigation forms. In German.
I. Austiefungen in der Nordsee bei Juist, Langeoog & Spiekeroog vom 15t-19t Juni 1861 -- II. Austiefungen in der Nordsee bei Juist und Borkum vom 15t-18t Juli 1861.
I) Handwritten, signed letter in French, from Louis Pasteur, Paris, to an unidentified man, November 27, 1881, on the subject of his vaccine; II) Keepsake cardboard folder containing "Une ‚vocation charmante et inattendue des dans pr‚coses de Pasteur," in reference to reproductions of portrait drawings of M. & Mlle. Roch, 1839, "dessin‚ par Pasteur a l'ƒge de 16 ans et demi..."
The volume contains general information about the Pulitzer Prize, lists of its recipients and recipients of other journalism prizes between the 1890s and the 1930s, and newspaper clippings. The remainder of the items are copies of articles labeled with their identifying information and the year submitted for the Pulitzer Prize. Others are articles clipped directly from newspapers that are not otherwise labeled. These include Pulitzer prize-winning political cartoons editorials, and investigative pieces from the 1920s and 1930s. While many of the articles seem to be unrelated to other items in the volume, there are several series of related articles from the same newspaper. These include: stories about the 1934 America’s Cup from the New York Herald-Tribune; stories about prisoner abuse in Trenton, New Jersey from the New York Evening Post; and stories about lynching, chivalry, and Southern culture from the Montgomery Advertiser. The articles in the second half of the volume tend to be focused on international politics and U.S. foreign policy.
Ten handwritten sheets, in French, of instructions to help diagnose and treat various illnesses. Some include descriptions of physical symptoms and the diseases they indicate. Others describe the procedures for preparing and administering medical treatments, including one to ‘purify the blood.’ Another provides the exact measurements of each ingredient in an ‘elixir of health.’ None of the pages includes a date.
Manuscript sheets found in printed book, call number: S411.C46 1718 Rare Crerar
This is an account book from England that spans the years 1832 to 1835. Many of the accounts are for various railroad companies, docks, and other transportation-related companies. Individuals are also represented. The account book was transferred from the Carry Collection. A piece of paper at the front of the book notes that it was “probably the gift of Mrs. E.F. Carry 6/30/1931,” and it is plated with Edward Francis Carry’s plate.
This is a volume containing student notes on the lectures of Dr. Benjamin Rush (1745-1813). The lectures are broken up into general subjects and subsections, and they seem to be of a fairly general nature describing the basic physiological and psychological make-up and processes of human beings. Rush was a well-known doctor in Philadelphia during the late 18th and early 19th centuries. He taught at the College of Philadelphia, the University of the State of Pennsylvania, and the University of Pennsylvania. He was also a signer of the Declaration of Independence, served in the army during the war, helped in the ratification process of the Constitution, and was active in the early abolition and temperance movements. According to the records of the John Crerar Library, this is a notebook of a student who attended and recorded the lectures of Dr. Rush. At the front of the notebook, on the first flyleaf, is written the name and address: “Thomas F. Gibbs, 935 R.I. Ave,” along with the note: “Prof. Rush’s Lectures.”
A postcard dated 6 April 1886. Addressed to Mr. Paul Lacombe, 3 Rue Laffitte, Paris. The postcard is written in French, and reads:
My dear Paul,
A call for you to respond that you have not yet come to see us at our place of study. 27 Rue des Pyramides, where we will show you everything you would like.
See you soon,
Douglas Read
This is a bound volume containing newspaper clippings on the Boston Subway. The articles are hand-dated and arranged chronologically. The first articles thus deal with the subway’s construction, and the later articles describe its function, enhancements and expansion. Some of the articles also contain illustrations depicting rail stations, subway riders, and system maps. There are also several features on conductors. Several of the articles are opinion pieces about the proper use and potential changes to the system.
Typed copy of Sand's introductory lecture delivered at the Institute of Legal Medicine of the University of Copenhagen, September 9, 1925, on the history of legalized medicine. Originally published in Ugeskrift for laeger, (Copenhagen: 1926). Translated from Danish into English by J. Christian Bay. Copy made by J. Christian Bay.
This collection of seven scrapbooks was titled by its author as “Fogarty’s Process of Making Water Gas (and simultaneously producing ammonia and carbonates of soda). Journals labeled A-E mainly contain clippings on the new processes and apparatuses for making gas at the end of the 19th century, the same time Fogarty was working on his Water Gas apparatus. Engineering, chemistry, and gas usage as the main source of fuel and energy are the main topics of the clippings. Sources of the materials include the Scientific American, Progressive Age, American Gas-Light Journal, and The Engineer and Mining Journal.
In addition to the collection of Jogarty’s clippings, other elements of the scientific environment of the era are included in the content of the scrapbooks. Journal A contains a published paper by Fogarty which was read at the American Gas-light Association in 1882. The scrapbook labeled Patent--Scraps contains clippings addressing the issues surrounding patent laws and debated cases of patent ownership.
Photo-micrographs of microscopic sections of the leaves of North American Abietineæ. (Exclusive of those of Mexico); The Sections made by J.D. King from specimens furnished from the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University. Photographed by W.H. Walmsley. Images accompanied by a list of 4 leaves of the sections prepared by Professor C.S. Sargent of Harvard University. Also includes a letter and circular from J.D. King specifying that “The numbers prefixed to species correspond to those used in the Report upon the forests of the Unites States, vol. IX, Tenth census.
64 Mounted photographs on 16 bound plates. 31 x 28 cm.
Holograph study in German, on the combined symptoms of heart disease, goiter, and "bulging eyes." Submitted for "das Tentamen zur medizinischen Facultätsprϋfing" at the University of Göttingen. Ex libris: Senn Collection. Bound in olive buckram.
The records of the Society of Medical History of Chicago include the organization's administrative documents, as well as its collections of historic material on the history of medicine.
Series I: Administration, contains material related to the activities and operation of the society from 1909-1982. Material in this series includes correspondence, minutes, reports, announcements, membership lists, proceedings, newsletters and broadsides.
Series II: Historical Collections, contains materials that the society compiled for research in the history of medicine. In this series are collections of organizational records, personal papers, publications and photographs. This series is divided into subseries by type of collection or format. While the collections primarily document medicine in Chicago and Cook County in the mid- to late-nineteenth century, this series also includes material relevant to the medical history of other regions such as Indiana, New York and Philadelphia.
Series I: Administration, contains material related to the operation of the society from 1909-1982, with a concentration of material from 1963-1979. Material in this series includes correspondence, minutes, reports, announcements, membership lists, proceedings, newsletters and broadsides.
Early records of the society, including material related to its founding and preliminary organization, are found in a scrapbook dated 1909-1936. A chronological file of records collected by society officers also includes material from this same period through 1979. A file of drafts, broadsides and photocopied texts related to the history of the society is also included.
This series contains materials that the society compiled for research in the history of medicine. Most of the primary materials in this series date from the 1860s-1890s. While the collections mainly document the history of medicine in Chicago and Cook County, this series also includes material relevant to the medical history of Indiana, New York, Philadelphia, and other regions. The society's correspondence and notes about the provenance and acquisition of collections are sometimes included with the primary materials.
This series is divided into subseries by type of collection or format.
Subseries 1: Organizational Records, is arranged alphabetically by organization. This subseries includes administrative records, course material and publications. Represented are Chicago-area hospitals, universities and colleges, private clubs and societies, businesses and committees. Notable in this subseries are records of Cook County Hospital, Rush Medical College, the Chicago Medical Club, and the Medical Relief Committee, which was organized to support medical professionals following the 1871 Chicago Fire. Oversize material, including important records of the Cook County Hospital and the Chicago Retreat for the Insane, has been transferred to Subseries 6.
Subseries 2: Biographical Files, is arranged alphabetically by name. This subseries consists of material collected by F.D. DuSouchet from 1911-1913, documenting the biographies of doctors active in Chicago in the mid- to late-nineteenth century. Most of the material in this subseries is correspondence between DuSouchet and the family members of individual doctors. Also included are photographs, biographical sketches, memorial material and clippings. General files contain lists of names, unidentified and partially identified material, and unanswered letters. Related papers of DuSouchet are included in Subseries 3. This subseries is also related to the portrait collection developed by DuSouchet, and included in Subseries 5.
Subseries 3: Personal Papers, is also arranged alphabetically. This subseries includes correspondence, manuscripts, personal business records, course material and publications. Most of the individuals represented were physicians or medical students in the Chicago area in the mid- to late-nineteenth century; also included are papers of George Weaver and others involved in the organization of the Society of Medical History of Chicago. Many of the individual collections in this subseries are very small and consist of only a few items. Substantial collections in this subseries include the correspondence of George H. Cleveland; a collection of a variety of personal papers of Edwin R. LeCount; historical research compiled by George C. Weaver; and notes taken by James W. Walker in courses taught by prominent faculty at Chicago Medical College. Oversize
material, including a letterbook of correspondence of Nicholas Senn, and notes taken by Ludvig Hektoen on Senn's lectures, has been transferred to Subseries 6.
Subseries 4: Publications, contains reprints, periodicals, pamphlets and books. Included are works on medical history, medicine, dentistry, temperance, nutrition and public health. Material in this series is arranged alphabetically by title or author; general collections of reprints, periodicals and pamphlets are found at the end of the subseries. An incomplete run of the Bulletin of the Society of Medical History of Chicago is also included. Many of these materials were collected by Nathan S. Davis, who served as president of the American Medical Temperance Association.
Subseries 5: Prints and Photographs, contains primarily black and white photographic prints, with a small number of engravings and reproductions from publications. Included in this subseries are photographs from the collection of Dr. Samuel Slaymaker, taken mainly at Rush Medical College and Cook County Hospital during the 1880s. Also included is a collection of portraits of prominent physicians and other medical professionals, organized alphabetically by subject. Biographical summaries are included with some of the portraits. Oversize material from this subseries, including additional photographs from Slaymaker's collection, have been transferred to Subseries 6.
Subseries 6: Oversize Materials, contains items transferred from previous subseries, as well as a framed print and a pair of Perkins's tractors mounted for display. Significant material in this subseries includes a casebook for the Chicago Home for the Insane; record books documenting autopsies and obstetric cases at Cook County Hospital; notes on lectures of Nicholas Senn taken by Ludvig Hektoen; a letterbook of correspondence with Senn; and photographs from the collection of Samuel Slaymaker.
This collection contains materials from German ophthalmologist Dr. Ernst Kraupa (fl. 1910-1950). The bulk of the collection consists of patient charts and plans of treatment. Of note is that these charts concern military patients, as they come from a war time hospital (Kriegsspital) in Vienna during 1917-1918. The subject of the lantern slides is also depicted in photographs, along with other portraits and prints of ophthalmological maladies and ophthalmology clinics. Materials in German.Holograph, formal lecture notes in Latin, taken by John Manning, from Albinus' lectures on anatomy at the University of Leyden. Headed by: "Albini Professoris Anatomici Leydensis Dictata." I) "Historia Anatomia"; II) "In Propriam Osteologiam Albins Dictata," with sections on "De Arteria," "De Venis," and "De Pulmonibus," etc.; III) "Neurologia"; IV) "De Partibus Naturalibus," with sections on "De Morsus," "De Liene," "De Visu," "Osteogenea," etc. Includes dealer's listing, tipped in. Inscribed: "Presented by the Executors of the late Dr. Manning." Ex libris: "Joannes Manning, M.D.," and "Norwich and Norfolk United Medical Book Society." Bound in one-quarter red calf, with marbled paper over boards.
A partial, handwritten English translation of Die Flugbewegung der Vögel von Karl Milla mit 27 Abbildungen (Leipzig & Wien: Franz Deuticke, 1895) in one notebook, as well as a copy of the German original, both belonging to the estate of Octave Chanute (1832-1910). It is possible that Chanute was the translator. Translated parts of the book are the preface by the author, pages 1-22 on “The Horizontal Rowing Flight of Birds,” and pages 83-91 on “The Directing (Steering).”
Articles published by French mammalogist, ornithologist, and carcinologist Alphonse Milne-Edwards (1835-1900), with accompanying plates, in one volume. Extracted or reprinted from various scientific journals. Materials in French. The binder’s title on the spine reads Mammifères. Mélanges. The contents, as they appear in the volume, are as follows:1. “La classification des mammifères.” La Revue Scientifique de la France et de l’Étranger. 2e série - 1re année: 1245-1250. June 29, 1872.2. “Observations anatomiques sur quelques mammifères de Madagascar. Premier article: de l’organisation du cryptoprocta ferox.” 26 p. 4 pl. 1867.3. “Note sur l’elaphurus Davidianus, espères mouvelle de la famille des cerfs.” 13 p. 3 pl. 1866.4. “Mémoire sur le type d’une nouvelle famille de l’ordre des rongeurs.” 32 p. 5 pl. 1867.5. “Note sur une nouvelle espèce de tatou à cuirasse incomplète (scleropleura Bruneti).” 3p. 1pl. undated6. “L’ordre des Lémuriens.” 6p. undated7. “Note sur une nouvelle espèce du genre nycticebus provenant de Siam et de Cochinchine.” 5 p. 1 pl. [1867].8. “Note sur le potto de Bosman ou perodicticus potto.” 4 p. 2 pl. undated9. “Note sur une nouvelle espèce de semnopithèque provenant de la cochinchine.” 3 p. 3 pl. [1870].10. “Description d’une nouvelle espèce de midas et observations sur l’ateles variegatus.” 8 p. [1878]. Holograph, formal lecture notes in German, taken by Wilh[elm] Baum, from Hempel's medical lectures at Göttingen. Ex libris: Senn collection. Bound in marble-covered boards with a buckram spine.
Holograph, informal lecture notes in German, on human physiology. Ex libris: "John Crerar Library." Bound in olive buckram.
Typed copies of reports, minutes, and official correspondence of the Chicago Pediatric Society. All materials tipped in or pasted onto sheets. Includes Constitution (1923). Membership list, undated. Minutes (1897-1928). Treasurer's accounts (1899-1910).
Formal and informal lecture notes, on paper and leatherbound notebooks, taken by D.E. Burlingam from medical school courses on diseases and their treatment, taught by Professor N. S. Davis, Prof. Andrews, Dr. Sherman, etc., at Chicago Medical College, Mercy Hospital, and Cook County Hospital.
Includes notes on enterofaretonitis, peritonitis, and pediatrics. Identified on brown paper wrapper: "Notes on lectures/ Chicago Med College/ Mercy Hospital & Cook County Hospt/ by D.E. Burlingam (Elgin)/ about-1868-9"; and "Sor[?] M. Hist from Dr.[?] H.J. Gahajun."
Handwritten lecture notes, I) un of midwifery, II) bones of the pelvis, III) ...a standard pelvis, IV) a distorted pelvis, V) difference between a male and female pelvis, VI) situation of the pelvis, VII) recent pelvis, VIII) foetal head, IX) presentation and situation, X) diseases occasioned by pressure on uterus, XI) organs of generation, XII) diseases of the organs, XIII) introducing the catheter, XIV) the hymen, XV) internal parts of generation, etc. Gift of Dr. John Bartlett. Heavily trimmed, bound in half-leather over marbled paper.
Album with seventy-five sheets of drawings, engravings, and watercolors, of forceps drawn by various artists, arranged alphabetically by names of inventors. Accompanied by historical description of illustrated forceps and related holograph correspondence in German, French, and English. Tipped into heavy brown paper. Collected and with descriptive text by Dr. August Eduard Martin. Bound in green buckram. See Crerar Ms. 53.
Handwritten notes in German (probably on birthing procedures), in hand which corresponds to other holograph material identified as copies by Eduard Martin, Johannes Christian Stark's pupil and successor. Originally interleaved in Crerar 618.2 J700, Johannes Stark, Lehrbuch der Geburtschlfe zum Unterricht fr hebammen (Jena: Bran'schen Buchhandlung, 1837). See Crerar Ms. 52.
Holograph abstract in English by J. Christian Bay, after Lundsgaard's Brillernes historie (Copenhagen: V. Trynde, 1913), on the history of corrective lenses. Illustrated with sketches. Presented to Crerar Library by J. Christian Bay. Bound in olive buckram.
Handwritten treatise in Latin, with marginal notations, on the anatomy of the eye and the mechanics of vision. Illustrated with charts and diagrams. Bound in modern buckram.
Holograph and typescript records of the regular monthly and annual meetings of the C.L.O.S. Volume One: Holograph minutes on ruled paper, and typed carbon copies, 1899-1915. All materials tipped, pasted, and pinned in. Volume Two: Typescript transcription of minutes in Volume 1, 1899-1915. Volume Three: Typescript and carbon copies of minutes, 1916-1921. Includes typescript correspondence, with a typed copy of address to the committee by G.W. Boot, M.D., tipped and folded in. Volume Four: Typescript minutes, 1922-1938. Volume Five: Typescript minutes, 1939-1951. (The Society was called Chicago Laryngological and Climatological Association before 1906.) Volumes I-IV bound in maroon buckram; Volume V bound in cardboard binder.
Holograph, informal lecture notes in German, from Tröltsch's medical lectures on the ear. Illustrated with sketches. Bound in modern half cloth over marbled paper. Former call number 617.802 N001. No Crerar accession number.
Holograph, prepared lectures in French, on internal pathology. Includes index. I) "Appareils de la vie de relation: 1e de l'Innervation, 2e de la Locomotion"; II) "Appareil de l'Innervation: centres nerveux - nerfs - sensations." Inscribed on flyleaf: "Presented to the John Crerar Library by Bayard Holmes, as a token of many courtesies." Bound in brown buckram over marbled paper.
Handwritten essay in German, on pathology and pharmacology, in two parts. I) "Erste Abtheilung: Allgemeine Nosologie"; II) "Zweite Abtheilung: Allgemeine Heilmittellehre." Bound in olive buckram. Binder's title: "Allgemeine pathologie," also pencilled on the first page in 20th century hand.
Typed, carbon copy translation of Iuschenko's work on mental disease. Translated into English by Dr. Bayard Holmes, based upon the German translation of Iuschenko's original Russia text. Includes typed bibliography and index of names, with holograph subject index. Inscribed with an editorial note by Bayard Holmes, Chicago, April 1915. Copied by Bayard Holmes. Bound in brown cloth.
Typescript medical study with handwritten annotations, on the pathology of the lung. Extensively illustrated with photographs. Volume One: "History and resume of surgical conditions found therein and experimental and clinical research in lower animals with reference to pneumonotomy, pneumonectomy, & bronchiotomy." Volume Two: "Experimental research on the lung of the dog with reference to ineumenotomy and pneumonectomy." Study printed in Benjamin Merrill Ricketts, The Surgery of the Heart and Lungs, Part Two (New York: The Grafton Press, 1904). Ex libris: "The Ricketts Library, Cincinnati." Presented by Benjamin Merrill Ricketts. Bound in contemporary three-quarter leather with paper-covered boards.
Typescript and holograph medical articles by Holmes and other authors in English and German, on mental illness and related topics. Includes autobiographical essays.
I) Typed carbon copy assessment of laboratory conditions at Cook County, prepared for the Council of the Chicago Medical Society by a committee of the Association of County Hospital Laboratory Employees, headed by Dr. Holmes, October 9, 1917. Illustrated with blueprint of Cook County Hospital, folded in; II) Letter from Bayard Holmes to Dr. Adam Szwajkart, Superintendent, Psychopathic Hospital, and to Dr. John Nuzum, Pathologist, Cook County Hospital, on work at his Psychopathic Resarch Lab at Cook County Hospital, November 13, 1917, T.L.S.
Holograph essay on the symptoms and effects of castor bean poisoning. Written on the back of identical, typed (mimeographed?) letters from Holmes' office. Two pencil illustrations, pasted in.
Consists of correspondence between Holmes and various individuals on the subject of mental illness. Includes a letter from Norman P. Willard to Dr. Vincent on Holmes's work in dementia praecox. Also contains reports. In addition to dementia praecox, topics refer to laboratory buildings in Cook County, Illinois, and guidelines for establishing a medical history of mentally ill patients. Includes extended typescript letter from Norman P. Willard to Dr. Vincent, on Holmes' work in Dementia Praecox; II) Typescript report, "Cook County Hospital Dementia Pracox Studies," followed by holograph notes; III) Typed report by Dr. John Nuzum, et al., "Outline of Conditions of a Laboratory Building or Buildings for the Laboratories of Cook County," T.Ms.S., 1917, and second typed copy of the same report, both with holograph annotations; IV) Typescript guidelines by Dr. R.J. Dowell, for establishing medical history of mental patients. (In 1917, Dementia Praecox Studies became the official organ of the newly formed Society for the Study of Dementia Praecox.)
Typewritten correspondence with handwritten signatures, corrections, and annotations, from Margaret Deland to Hugo Erichsen, on the subject of Dr. LeMoyne. Tipped into heavy cream paper. I) Margaret Deland, Boston, to Dr. Erichsen, December 23, 1916, T.L.S., 3 p.; II) Margaret Deland, Boston, to Dr. Erichsen, March 13, 1916, T.L.S., 4 p.; III) Margaret Deland, Boston, to Dr. Erichsen, January 3, 1917, T.L.S., 4 p. Ex libris: "Dr. Hugo Eriksen."
The Brainerd Currie Papers consist primarily of articles written by Currie between 1957 and 1960. Included are drafts, notes and related correspondence. Also in the collection are drafts of poems and lyrics, including "The Rose of Aberlone."
The Allison Davis Papers range from 1932 to 1984 and contain reprints, manuscripts, and annotated drafts, field notes, and various interview data from key projects, correspondence and enclosures, research notes, and associated works by colleagues, including students' theses, abstracts, and proposals. Most of the papers stem from his long association with the University of Chicago and include his work on child-rearing and psychological development, studies of acculturation and the public schools, work on intelligence testing, and his study of young adulthood.
The collection is organized into eight series: Series I: Biographical and Personal Material, Series II: Correspondence, Series III: Student Career, Series IV: Course Material, Series V: Research Files, Series VI: Writings, Series VII: Audio Tapes, and Series VIII: Letters of Recommendation and Nominations.
This series contains biographical sketches, curriculum vitae, and bibliographies reflecting Davis's professional career and spanning nearly forty years from the early 1940s to the late 1970s. The other materials in this series pertain to family members, financial matters, and academic honors received by Davis.
This series contains correspondence to and from Allison Davis, ranging from 1932 until 1984. The materials are of a predominantly professional nature and arranged alphabetically. Correspondents include Francis S. Chase, John Dollard, and Robert Hess, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, and Dillard University. Manuscripts and other pertinent enclosures are also present.
Notes, notebooks, and papers collected and written by Allison Davis as part of his graduate work in Anthropology from 1932 until 1942 are included in Series III. Davis enjoyed a rich and varied student career, studying at Harvard, the London School of Economics, and the University of Chicago. However, it is not always readily apparent at which institution or in what context a given paper was written or notebook compiled. Dates have been provided where available.
Series IV has been divided into four subseries: (1) Course Work, (2) M.A. Abstracts and Proposals, (3) Ph.D. Abstracts and Proposals, and (4) M.A. Theses. The first, Course Work, primarily concerns lectures, transcripts and notes from those courses taught by Allison Davis at the University of Chicago. This material dates from the late 1950s through the early 1970s, and focuses on Davis's work on ego development and maintenance. It is worth noting that Davis used the classroom as a proving ground for his own writing, and that one is apt to find striking similarities between his lectures and his more formal writings of the same period.
The remaining three subseries, M.A. Abstracts and Proposals, Ph.D. Abstracts and Proposals, and M.A. Theses, are all materials gathered together by Allison Davis and range from 1942 to 1978. Files are arranged alphabetically by candidate.
Series V contains Allison Davis' research files. The files follow, chronologically, the research projects during his career. The series itself has been arranged into eight subseries: (1) Natchez Project; (2) American Council on Education; (3) Carnegie-Myrdal Study; (4) Child-rearing and Psychological Development; (5) Child-rearing in Lower Status Families; (6) Acculturation Project; (7) Intelligence Testing; and (8) Young Adulthood Project.
This series includes original drafts, manuscripts, lectures, research notes, course materials, correspondence, and field notes. Authorship of papers, presentations, and lectures should be attributed to Davis unless otherwise noted. All course numbers and titles refer to University of Chicago course offerings and Davis is assumed to be the course instructor unless some other indication is offered.
Correspondence, notes, and bibliographies are at the beginning of each subseries. These are followed by manuscripts and drafts of Davis' written work and lectures, as well as course and seminar materials. These in turn are succeeded by material pertinent to other authors, institutions, and related subject areas. Miscellaneous items like clippings and reprint sets are found at the end of each subseries.
Subseries 1: Natchez Project, and the classic work Deep South, includes field data, notes, and correspondence, as well as working drafts and manuscripts. A bound copy of Davis' Ph.D. dissertation, "Caste and Economic Stratification in the Deep South," is also present. Since Davis collaborated closely with Burleigh and Mary Gardner on all phases of the Natchez project from field work beginning in 1933 to final publication in 1942, it is difficult to determine the relative contributions of each of the authors to the manuscript materials collected here.
Subseries 2: American Council on Education is divided into two sub-subseries: American Youth Commission and the Division on Child Development and Teacher Personnel. Davis's association with the American Youth Commission (1938-1939) was undertaken while teaching at Dillard University in New Orleans, and eventually lead to the publication of Children of Bondage with John Dollard. Included are interview data pertinent to that study, as well as manuscript drafts of Children of Bondage. The material pertinent to the Division on Child Development and Teacher Personnel is composed mainly of work group and seminar papers submitted for discussion by its various members.
Subseries 3: Carnegie-Myrdal Study contains materials on another of Davis's projects that studied African American life in the United States. Davis consulted on the project and undertook a specific research task, the investigation of churches, lodges, and other associations among African Americans in Natchez and New Orleans. At the same time, he directed the investigations of St. Clair Drake into similar institutions in Chicago. Present are both Davis's and Drake's research memoranda, as well as correspondence from Gunnar Myrdal, the project director.
Subseries 4: Child-rearing and Psychological Development is mainly concerned with a proposed work on this topic, circa 1962. Book outlines, chapter drafts, research materials, and related interview data are included.
Subseries 5: Child-rearing in Lower Status Families, was the early work of Davis and Havighurst, which eventually formed the basis of Father of the Man as well as numerous scholarly articles. A substantial amount of interview data was collected as part of these case studies. The Newbury Center Materials refer to data gathered as a result of contacts initiated through the Newbury Center, a nursery school with outreach programs in the African American community. The primary research occurred from 1942 to 1944. The Hyde Park Neighborhood House Materials refer to data collected among lower status white families loosely connected by their association with this community center. Primary field research extended from 1942 to 1946, but some as late as 1949.
Subseries 6: Acculturation Project, initiated in the early 1940s, proposed to investigate the role of the public schools in the assimilation and acculturation of children from diverse cultural and ethnic backgrounds. Three different sites with varying approaches to the issue were selected, California, Hawaii, and Brazil. Manuscripts dealing with the Californian and Hawaiian situations, as well as interview data from California, are included. The Brazil study was delayed and finally dropped though some pertinent notes and correspondence are represented.
Subseries 7: Intelligence Testing materials are organized into three sub-subseries: General, School Studies, and Davis Tests. General contains correspondence, including that from the World Book Company and Kenneth Eells, as well as notes, manuscripts, and reprints. The School Studies include data from specific research conducted in Rockford and Gary schools, and materials from the General Education Board which sponsored much of that research. Davis Tests concerns the development of the test instruments themselves. It should be noted that there were several tests developed in the course of this research which at various times were called by various names--Davis Tests, Davis-Hess Tests, Davis-Eells Tests. This developmental process seems to have been relatively fluid with subsequent tests developing out of previous ones.
Subseries 8: Young Adulthood Project includes manuscripts and reprints which both informed and emerged from the project; research memoranda, containing a series of numbered memoranda written by members of the Project; and interview data, incorporating material from both the early and late phases of the Project spanning a period from 1952-1962. Where possible Davis's groupings of interview data have been followed as, for example, in the entries "Kewpies," and "Negro Cases." The remainder of the material has been arranged alphabetically by informant name.
This series brings together a broad spectrum of Davis's professional and non-professional writing, including three book-length efforts undertaken towards the end of his career.
Though neither work seems to have been published, Davis apparently considered both To Seize Life and Sexual Vitality to be extensions of his work on ego development and maintenance, but intended for more popular audiences. The materials are very closely related and, in fact, not easily partitioned. They incorporate much of the same content, but in rather different forms and guises. It should likewise be noted that Davis reworked this material many, many times, and while relatively complete versions of the works are included here, one will also find a substantial amount of partial manuscripts and notes. Similarly, several versions of Leadership, Love, and Aggression, as well as materials pertaining to the development of each chapter, are included here.
The Non-Fiction section is not intended to be inclusive of Davis's work. Rather, it reflects those manuscripts and reprints which he had himself arranged together. These works, published and unpublished, cover an expansive period from 1933 to 1973. Lectures, where distinguishable from Non-Fiction, includes public addresses and speeches delivered between 1949 and 1973.
Finally, a brief Fiction section presents notes and manuscripts for several literary works. It appears that Davis returned to this material throughout his lifetime, as indicated by dates ranging from 1934 to 1983.
The materials contained in this series are restricted due to their physical condition or the need for special equipment.
This series contains tape and cassette recordings of lectures and addresses by Davis. These tapes have been identified using those markings available on the reel or tape box. Most are class lectures, with some public lectures as well, including the Leo Franklin Lecture at Wayne State University. There is also at least one example of a taped interview. Fifteen tapes are unidentified.
Series VIII is restricted and will not be open for research until 2024.
This small series primarily contains letters of reference, as well as several folders of nomination materials from the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The Recorder's Office Records consist of two volumes relating investigations of student misconduct and disciplinary action taken against students between 1908 and 1933; a volume regarding degrees conferred before 1893 by the Old University of Chicago and by the Baptist Union Theological Seminary; and published reports of the Recorder’s Office, 1904-1908.In 1993 R.R. Donnelley and Sons Company undertook a major initiative to preserve its 130-year history, and to make that history broadly accessible to individuals both inside the company and outside. This effort took form as the Archives Project, to arrange and describe voluminous historical records in the company's possession, and to create a company archives that would be useful immediately and far into the future.
RR Donnelley's role in the development of and impact on mass communication is documented in the company archives. Researchers of printing and technology, Chicago history, advertising and communication, graphic arts, fine binding and conservation, and many other related fields will find the R.R. Donnelley and Sons Company Archives a valuable source.
The R.R. Donnelley and Sons Company Archive contains text materials such as correspondence, manuscripts, legal documents, oral and written histories, advertising, and customer product samples dating from the mid-nineteenth century to the present. A wealth of visual material includes photographs, artwork, product samples, and artifacts.
The collection is organized into twenty series. Series I through XII were the first parts of the collection to be formally processed by RR Donnelley, and contain many textual and visual documents that highlight important developments in the company's history. Series XIII through XX were organized afterwards, are concentrated in the mid- to late-twentieth century, and emphasize routine production and business at the company.
Series I: Biographical Files, includes material on members of the Donnelley family, as well as employees and other individuals affiliated with the company. The information found in these files tends to be general in nature, and is most useful as a source for basic textual and visual information about an individual. Materials found in this series, which date from the late nineteenth century to the late twentieth century, include correspondence, publications, photographs, resumes, and work samples
Series II: Business Records, includes administrative and operational documents dating from the founding of the company to the mid-1990s. This series represents an incomplete record of the company's activities, but is a strong source of information on plants and facilities, the company's organizational structure, acquisitions and subsidiary companies, and The Printer, one of the company's magazines. It also contains selected financial records, patents, management documents, guides, personnel records and memorabilia.
Series III: Company Advertising, contains samples of material created by RR Donnelley to promote its own services. The items in this series date from the company's founding to the late twentieth century, and also include a small number of pieces advertising Richard Robert Donnelley's earlier business partnerships. Because the company used these pieces to highlight its own printing capabilities, the samples in this series tend to exemplify high-end printing and design, while demonstrating the company's marketing strategies.
Series IV: Customers and Products, collects RR Donnelley's files on its clients, including samples of products (usually called "job samples") that it printed for them. These samples number in the thousands, and are found in several subseries of this series. This series also includes business records such as contracts and agreements, correspondence, photographs, and collections of historical background material on individual customers. Material on major clients such as Time-Life, Inc., Sears Roebuck and Company, and Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. are found in this series, as are selected samples. This series is a particularly rich source of material printed by the company in the 1920s-1950s.
Series V: Apprentice Schools and Training Programs, documents RR Donnelley's School for Apprentices and other formal employee training efforts. This series contains teaching material, work samples, photographs and student records from the original School for Apprentices located in Chicago. Material from a second apprentice program centered at the company's Crawfordsville, Indiana plant is included in separate files. Also found in this series are course material, certificates, photographs and other records of later training and professional development programs. Most of the material in this series dates from the early to mid-twentieth century.
Series VI: Exhibitions, contains material related to exhibitions of fine art, book arts and graphic design, which were held at RR Donnelley beginning in 1930. This series contains catalogs, invitations, broadsides, photographs and correspondence and other material related to exhibitions at RR Donnelley, focusing particularly on those held at the Lakeside Press Galleries from 1930 to 1962.
Series VII: Historical Writings and Research, demonstrates RR Donnelley's deliberate efforts to document its past. The foundation of this series is the work of Herbert P. Zimmerman, a former RR Donnelley executive who in the mid-twentieth century undertook an extensive study of the company's history. This series contains drafts and typescripts of historical writings by a variety of researchers, as well as primary and secondary source material such as correspondence, publications and photographs. Personal recollections of employees, including transcripts of oral histories, are also found in this series.
Series VIII: Personal Papers, represents several RR Donnelley executives and prominent employees, including C.F. Beezley, Jr., Igor de Lissovoy, Alfred de Sauty, Gaylord Donnelley, Thomas Elliott Donnelley, Carl Doty, Charles C. Haffner, William A. Kittredge, Charles W. Lake, Edward R. Lhotka, and C. Prentiss Smith. This series includes correspondence, publications, design samples, photographs, manuscripts, and memorabilia. As well as providing insight into the individuals represented, this series is also an excellent source of mid-twentieth century material related to management strategy, employee development, and product design processes.
Series IX: General Records, contains materials collected under about seventy specific topics significant to the history of RR Donnelley, or to the history of printing in general. Many of the headings correspond to departments of the company, clients, events, printing processes, types of products, and special projects. Much of the material in this series consists of RR Donnelley advertising pieces and other promotional items; also found are photographs, correspondence, reports, customer job samples, and artwork. When possible, material in this series should also be viewed in conjunction with more detailed files found elsewhere in the collection. However, this series contains the collection's strongest representations of the Century of Progress; Extra Bindery and Graphic Conservation; financial printing operations; the Memorial Library and Training Library; data on printing presses operated in the company's plants; the development of the Indian head printer's mark and logo; the Four American Books; and electronic and digital printing processes developed in the 1970s-1990s.
Series X: Training Library Collection, consists of print materials drawn from the collections of this company resource. While some of the items in the Training Library were printed by RR Donnelley, many were created by other firms and collected by the library as examples for staff training. The material in this series contains hundreds of samples of fine and specialty print items from the early and mid-twentieth century. The series also contains "everyday" ephemeral pieces such as maps, brochures and travel guides. The Special Collections Research Center also holds books drawn from the Training Library, which are cataloged in the Rare Books Collection.
Series XI: Photographs and Audio-Visual Material, spans over 100 years of company history, and represents the richest and most cohesive visual documentation of the company. Subjects such as printing technologies, employee activities, and facilities are documented through thousands of photographs. Audio material, including oral history recordings, are included here, as are videos and films on a variety of subjects.
Series XII: Artifacts, Artwork and Ephemera, contains print materials, visual art pieces, and objects collected for their artifactual value. This series contains samples of paper goods and other supplies used at the company, catalogs and samples of company-branded promotional merchandise, printing artifacts, signs, artwork, customer job samples, and catalog card files. A selected group of customer job samples collected as artifacts, such as boxed and wrapped copies of Four American Books titles, are also included in this series. Many of the items in this series are unidentified and undated.
Because material related to a single topic will usually be found in several different series within the collection, most researchers will find it necessary to browse or keyword-search the inventories to locate all relevant material. For example, while Series V is dedicated to records of the School for Apprentices, important related material is also found in Series VIII and Series XI. In reviewing the inventories, it is important not to overlook oversize materials, artifacts, books, and other unusual items that are often found at the end of series or subseries of the collection.
Series XIII: Corporate Management, documents the development of RR Donnelley as a corporation, from its establishment as a family-owned company in the nineteenth century, to its position as a global, publicly traded firm. This series represents the company's financial conditions, administrative structure, management strategies, and corporate policies. Documents in this series spans the years 1869-2000, and include annual reports, material for speeches and presentations, organization charts, manuals, financial and legal material, personal papers of executives, meeting minutes and agendas, correspondence and publicity material.
Series XIV: Advertising and Promotions, documents RR Donnelley activities related to marketing its services to clients and the public. Included are materials from advertising campaigns, public events, and industry conferences. Material in this series spans the years 1925-2002, and includes samples of company advertisements; samples of promotional gifts such as print portfolios, facsimiles of historic documents, and framing prints; files on the production and distribution of the Lakeside Classics series; exhibition catalogs; invitations; brochures; service directories; customer newsletters; service guides; internal market analyses; and related notes, correspondence and production specifications.
Series XV: Customers and Products, is the largest series in the R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company Archive, and contains samples of thousands of products RR Donnelley printed for its customers, as well as material related to customer relationship management. This series spans the years 1869-2002; however, material is heavily concentrated in the late twentieth century. Items in this series include samples of magazines, catalogs, books, direct mail advertisements, financial documents, telephone directories, product packaging, pamphlets, manuals and other products printed by RR Donnelley. It also includes job specifications, reports, contracts, and correspondence with customers.
Series XVI: Communications and Media Relations, contains material related to internal communication at RR Donnelley, as well as external communications to news media. The contents document business developments, internal news, and corporate policies. Material in this series spans the years 1907-2002, and includes company magazines and newsletters, clippings, announcements, news releases, memoranda, directories, pamphlets, brochures, editorial material, historical research and oral history transcripts
Series XVII: Personnel, consists of material related to RR Donnelley's development and management of its workforce. Included in this subseries is a large collection of files on labor relations at RR Donnelley. This series also contains material documenting employee clubs, associations, activities and special events. Material in this series spans the years 1904-1999, and includes
brochures, pamphlets, handbooks, instructional materials, correspondence, policy statements, reports, newsletters, broadsides, announcements and memorabilia.
Series XVIII: Facilities and Operations, documents RR Donnelley buildings, properties, and facilities, as well as day-to-day printing operations that formed the core of the company's activities. Material in this series spans the years 1872-2000, although material is heavily concentrated in the mid- to late twentieth century. This series contains architectural and mechanical drawings, deeds and leases, site surveys, patent applications, operational reports, procedure manuals, equipment instructions and specifications, typeface specimens, and related correspondence.
Series IXX: Photographs, Audio-Visual and Digital Media, consists of visual, audio, and multimedia documentation of RR Donnelley's employees, facilities, equipment, products, promotional efforts and communications programs. This series spans the years 1871-2000, with material heavily concentrated in the mid- to late-twentieth century. Formats in this series include photographs, film reels, video recordings, microfilm rolls, floppy disks, CD-ROMs and multimedia kits.
Series XX: Artifacts, Artwork and Memorabilia, contains items collected for their value as visual or physical documents, as well as material commemorating special achievements and events. Material in this series spans the 1870s-2000s, and includes supplies, tools and equipment, fragments of machinery, architectural artifacts, paintings, drawings, prints, samples of products and printing technology output, promotional items and decorative objects.
This series contains biographical files on members of the Donnelley family, as well as on individuals affiliated with the R.R. Donnelley and Sons Company. The series is further divided into four subseries.
Subseries 1: Donnelley Family, consists of correspondence, articles, calling cards, memorials, publications, honors and awards, photographs and other material related to the Donnelleys and some extended members of the family. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 4.
Subseries 2: Company Officers ca. 1980s-1990s, holds resumes, photographs, and other personnel material (Biographical material on many earlier officers of the company may be found in Subseries 3). Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 4.
Subseries 3: General, includes files on employees, board members, individuals closely associated with the company, and other notables. This subseries contains a wide variety of material, including correspondence, photographs, publications, work samples, and personal papers. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 4.
Subseries 4: Oversize Material and Artifacts, contains material transferred from Subseries 1-3. Material in this subseries may be traced to its original location through the descriptive folder headings.
Additional biographical and personal information on individuals and families affiliated with RR Donnelley can be found in Series VIII. Hundreds of photographs of individuals and groups, most of which are not duplicated in this series, are found in Series XI.
This series contains administrative and operational records of the R.R. Donnelley and Sons Company, dating from its founding to the mid-1990s. In order to distinguish among the wide variety of records found here, the series is further divided into nine subseries.
Subseries 1: Plants, Divisions and Acquisitions, contains advertising and product samples, photographs, architectural drawings, and business records related to a specific location, administrative unit, or subsidiary company. This subseries is arranged alphabetically, with headings corresponding to the names of buildings, divisions, companies, or geographical locations. Oversize material has been transferred to Subseries 9.
Subseries 2: Company Magazine, collects records of the company's long-running internal publication. This publication underwent several changes in title, beginning as Lakeside Press (1916-1934), and continuing as Lakeside News (1935-1958), Lakeside Review (1959-1964), The Donnelley Printer (1965-1986), and The Printer (1987-1995). The bulk of this subseries consists of chronological files of editorial photographs of The Printer, dating from 1974-1995. Material in these files includes thousands of editorial photographs, negatives, slides and contact sheets, organized according to the issue of the magazine in which they appeared. Included with these photographs are proofs, dummy copies, and samples of the magazine. Much of this material is artifactual in nature, with photographs clipped or laid into mock-ups of magazine issues. A relatively small amount of administrative material, product samples and editorial files, dating from the 1940s through the 1990s, make up the remainder of this subseries. This series does not contain large or cohesive collections of samples of the magazine itself. Oversize material has been transferred to subseries 9.
Subseries 3: Financial, contains ledgers, tax forms, reports, leases and other records of the company's financial activities. This series does not supply a thorough record of the company's financial condition over time; rather, the materials document a variety of transactions at different points in the company's history. Oversize material has been transferred to subseries 9.
Subseries 4: Patents, consists mainly of patents granted to the company between 1953 and 1993. Also included in this subseries are lists of patents, and files on patent agreements.
Subseries 5: Administration, contains management- and executive-level business records, such as contracts, reports, and management studies. Organization charts are also found in this subseries. Oversize material has been transferred to subseries 9.
Subseries 6: Sales Department, contains ledgers and agreements documenting compensation for sales staff. Ledgers were generally kept for a span of years, and include a record of compensation for each salesman, filed by last name. This subseries also includes albums, scrapbooks, tear sheets, and bound volumes of printing samples that were used to present the company's printing capabilities to clients. Oversize material has been transferred to subseries 9.
Subseries 7: Design Guides, contains style manuals, typographical indexes and guides, corporate identity manuals, and other material used as guidelines for the design of customer jobs, as well as for internal visual design. Oversize material, which includes part of a set of original art boards used in Faber Birren and Company color design studies, has been transferred to subseries 9.
Subseries 8: World War II Service Records and Memorabilia, contain personnel records that formally document of the service of RR Donnelley's employees during the war, as well as bound issues of newsletters produced by employees for co-workers overseas. Also included in this subseries is an illuminated manuscript created by an RR Donnelley employee to honor Department "K" co-workers who served in the war, and a register of visiting servicemen that was kept by Department "D".
Subseries 9: Oversize Material and Artifacts, contains material transferred from subseries 1-8. Material in this subseries may be traced to its original location through the descriptive folder headings.
Selected business records are also found in other series of the collection, particularly Series VIII, filed by subject under the names of products, divisions and departments, or business initiatives; as well as Series IV, filed under the names of clients or products. Series VII and XI contain manuscripts and photographs that were printed in the company magazine, and magazine content is found throughout the collection, usually photocopied and included as reference material. RR Donnelley associates personal papers, which often include business records, are found in Series VIII. Historical research and personal recollections about business affairs are found in Series VII and XI.
This series contains samples of advertising pieces created by RR Donnelley to promote its own services. In many cases, RR Donnelley used a particular customer job as an advertising piece by adding a new cover or insert. In such cases the customer is identified. The particular RR Donnelley service advertised is noted where appropriate. Samples are arranged chronologically within subseries.
Subseries 1: "The Lakeside Press" booklets, contains deluxe printed booklets produced throughout the 1920s to promote a range of the company's services. The booklets exemplify high-end promotional printing of this period, with spectacular illustrations and sophisticated copywriting.
Subseries 2: General Advertising Samples, includes portfolios, broadsides, postcards, tear sheets and other printed ephemera associated with a variety of the company's services and campaigns. The popular "Lemon Pies or Wash Tubs" booklets, promoting RR Donnelley's printing for companies serving homemaking products, are found here. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 4.
Subseries 3: Scrapbooks, contains of four volumes in which clippings, tear sheets, form letters, and product samples were collected. Each scrapbook spans a period of several years or decades, and includes material gathered from a variety of sources.
Subseries 4: Oversize Material, contains large advertising samples transferred from Subseries 2. Date spans given in the descriptive headings can be used to trace the location of related material found in Subseries 2.
Sample advertising pieces are also found in many other series of the collection, particularly Series IX, X and XII. Additional material related to RR Donnelley's promotional and marketing strategies are found in Series II, VI-VIII and XII. Original artworks for selected pieces are found in Series VIII, IX and XII.
This series collects RR Donnelley's files on its customers, including products (usually called "job samples") that it printed for them. These samples number in the thousands, and are found in several subseries of this series. This series also includes business records such as contracts and agreements, correspondence, photographs, and collections of historical background material on individual customers. This series has been divided into four subseries; while similar types of material can be found across these subseries, each subseries has a distinctly different organizational structure.
Subseries 1: Customer Files, includes material on many of RR Donnelley's clients, such as Time-Life, Inc., Sears Roebuck and Company, and Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. Material in this subseries is arranged alphabetically by client name or product title, and includes job samples, contracts and agreements, correspondence, photographs, and historical background material. Samples of mass-market magazines such as Life, Time, People, Business Week, and Fortune are found in this series. Samples of products tend to be selective, rather than comprehensive. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 5.
Subseries 2: Customer Job Samples, collects samples of products printed for an enormous number of clients, from international corporations to small businesses, clubs and individuals. Catalogs, brochures, books, broadsides, periodicals, and packaging are among the more common types of material in this subseries. Library catalog cards, memos, and other supporting material are occasionally found filed with the samples. While the date range of this subseries extends from the late nineteenth to early twenty-first century, most of the samples in this subseries date from the 1920s-1950s. This subseries is arranged alphabetically, usually by the name of the client or the client's product, but occasionally by the title of the product. Material filed under personal names may be found under either the first or last name of the individual (for example, items produced for the Marshall Field department stores are found under both "Marshall Field" and "Field, Marshall." Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 5.
Subseries 3: Subject File, contains material similar to that found in the previous two subseries, such as job samples, correspondence, contracts, and historical background material. However, material in this series is arranged alphabetically by subject, rather than by customer or product. Typical subjects include events such as the 1984 Olympic Games; memorial publications for celebrated individuals such as Princess Diana; broad product types such as telephone directories; and units of the company such as the Intervisual Communications group. Material included in this subseries is generally distinguished by its topicality, historical significance or aesthetic quality. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 5.
Subseries 5: Oversize Material and Artifacts, contains job samples, proofs, ledgers, printing plates, and other large-format material transferred from Subseries 1-3. This material can be traced to its original subseries location through the descriptive headings.
Additional samples of products that RR Donnelley printed for clients are found throughout the collection, but particularly in Series IX and XII. Records related to RR Donnelley's business relationships with clients can also be found in Series II, VII, VII, VIII and XI. The photographs in Series XI include images of customer jobs in production, as well as visits of clients to RR Donnelley facilities; this same series also includes oral history recordings that discuss RR Donnelley's relationships to clients.
A formal program for the training of RR Donnelley's future work force was instituted in the early decades of the 20th century, as the School for Apprentices. Here, boys as young as 12 began their training as skilled workers and craftsmen. Early programs grew into broader orientation, training and professional development curricula, conducted by the Training Department.
This series contains teaching material, work samples, photographs and student records from the original School for Apprentices, and is a particularly rich source of material from the 1910s-1930s. Material from a second apprentice program centered at the company's Crawfordsville, Indiana plant is included in separate files. Also found in this series are course material, certificates, photographs and other records of later training and professional development programs. The final box in this series contains a framed apprenticeship contract.
This part of the archive has little organization below the series level; researchers interested in a particular subject or span of time will need to browse the inventory of the entire series in order to locate all relevant material.
Photographs related to the School for Apprentices are also found in Series XI. Personal papers and memorabilia of RR Donnelley staff who began their careers as apprentices are included in Series VIII and XII.
Beginning in 1930, the Lakeside Press Galleries, located in RR Donnelley's Calumet building, hosted public exhibitions of fine art, book arts and graphic design. Contemporary photography, posters, fine printing and binding, and commercial art were particularly emphasized. Exhibitions were regularly held in this space from 1930 to the 1962, except for a short period during World War II. Additional exhibitions were held in the galleries from November 1974.
This series contains a rich variety of exhibition ephemera and other material related to exhibitions at RR Donnelley, focusing particularly on those held at the Lakeside Press Galleries from 1930 to 1962. The series begins with general files regarding the gallery space, related exhibitions in other galleries, and assorted exhibition ephemera. The following files are arranged chronologically by year, with materials arranged by the titles of individual exhibitions. These items include catalogs, invitations, broadsides, and photographs of galleries and displays. For some exhibitions, there is material related to the organization of the exhibition itself, such as correspondence between curators, company officers and exhibitors; these files include correspondence with artists John Steuart Curry and Thomas Hart Benton, and collectors such as Mrs. James Ward Thorne.
Oversize material has been transferred to the final two boxes in the collection. This material, which includes several scrapbooks of exhibition ephemera, is arranged chronologically.
Other material related to exhibitions can be found in Series VIII, IX, X, and XI.
This series demonstrates RR Donnelley's deliberate efforts to document its own history, and is a rich source of secondary research material and the company's internal analysis of its past. The foundation of this series is the work of Herbert P. Zimmerman, a former RR Donnelley executive who in the mid-twentieth century undertook an extensive study of the company's history. This series contains drafts and typescripts of historical writings by a variety of researchers, as well as primary and secondary source material such as correspondence, publications and photographs. Much of the research and reference material found in this series, particularly in files of the company's early history, consists of photocopies or facsimiles, rather than original material.
To help distinguish among the many research projects and sources that are included, this series is further divided into nine subseries.
Subseries 1: Herbert P. Zimmerman, Company History, contains drafts and typescripts of Zimmerman's four-part survey of the company's history from 1864-1927, as well as related correspondence, notes and research material.
Subseries 2: Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, contains material such as correspondence, publications and photographs relating to the town in which Richard Robert Donnelley was born. An oversize publication from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 9.
Subseries 3: Early Business Affiliations, contains documents (primarily facsimiles) that reference early companies in which Richard Robert Donnelley was involved, and individual business associates.
Subseries 4: Herbert P. Zimmerman, Histories of Customer and Labor Relations, contains drafts, typescripts and research material relating to several of Zimmerman's historical writings. Included in this series is research and writing on major customers of the company, a history of telephone directory printing, and a multi-part history of labor relations.
Subseries 5: Gaylord Donnelley, Articles for the Donnelley Printer, collects tear sheets and sample issues of the magazine in which Gaylord Donnelley's historical writings were published between 1966-1967.
Subseries 6: Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation, contains publications, photographs, and promotional material related to the company founded by Reuben H. Donnelley, and particularly its work with telephone directories. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 9.
Subseries 7: Personal Recollections, contains dozens of letters, memos, notes, drafts, oral history transcripts, and other documents composed by employees of RR Donnelley, and other individuals closely associated with the company. In these documents, individuals reflect on their careers at the company, memorable events, business accomplishments, and other personal experiences. Many of these documents were composed in response to personal requests from Zimmerman in the process of compiling source material for his book. While many of the individuals represented were executives of the company, this series also includes the recollections of pressmen, engineers, designers, and many others.
Subseries 8: General Research and Reference Material, includes writings and research files generated through several research projects related to the company's history. This includes additional writings and research files of Herbert P. Zimmerman, as well as material related to an oral history project, undertaken in 1986 at the request of Jack Schwemm. Gaylord Donnelley and Charles Lake worked on this project with Dan Lewis, a graduate student in history at the University of Chicago.
Subseries 9: Oversize Material and Artifacts, includes material transferred from Subseries 2 and Subseries 6. The descriptive folder headings trace the material to its original location in previous subseries.
Additional secondary analyses, historical writings and research files are found in other parts of the collection, particularly Series II, IV and IX. Cassette tapes of oral history recordings are found in Series XI.
This series contains the personal papers of several RR Donnelley executives and prominent employees. This series is further divided into twelve subseries in order to distinguish among the individuals represented.
Subseries 1: C.F. Beezley, Jr. (1882-1947) worked at RR Donnelley for 42 years from 1905-1947, eventually working his way up to become Vice President in Charge of the Catalog Department. Under his leadership, this department became the largest jobbers' catalog compiling organization in the country. Known as the "ambassador of goodwill," Beezley was the official host for many visitors to the plant. Eventually, the Department of State made the RR Donnelley plant a regular stop for important foreign dignitaries who were interested in printing and publishing. Some of the most interesting materials in Subseries 1 are Beezley’s papers from his trip to South America and the party thrown upon his return, as well as his files on racial integration and representation during the Civil Rights era. Also contained in this series are some RR Donnelley publications, as well as photographs taken by Beezley. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 12.
Subseries 2: Igor de Lissovoy (1912-1997) was born in St. Petersburg, Russia, and fled with his family to the United States when Lenin rose to power. Igor’s artistic talent landed him a job at RR Donnelley, where he began his career as a pre-apprentice in 1928. He worked his way into the composing department, where he spent 12 years. He moved into production and then design where he worked on the first edition of Life magazine. In 1962 he transferred to the advertising and sales promotion department, where he remained until he retired in 1977. The materials in Subseries 2 consist mainly of examples of de Lissovoy's graphic designs and photography from the time he was a RR Donnelley apprentice to his retirement.
Subseries 3: Alfred de Sauty was born August 26, 1870 in the British Colony of Gibraltar. Following school, de Sauty joined one of the ships of the Eastern Telegraph Company as a junior electrician. During his long periods of time off duty, he became interested in art, and eventually bookbinding. He became a very skilled bookbinder and gained international recognition. In October 1923 he was hired to direct the Extra Bindery at R.R. Donnelley and Sons Company. He remained head of the Extra Bindery until March 1935, when he returned to England. He died there on December 1, 1949 at the age of 79. Subseries 3 contains de Sauty's original binding designs and rubbings from finished bindings. These materials were left behind in the Extra Bindery when he left RR Donnelley. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 12.
Subseries 4: Gaylord Donnelley (1910-1992) was the grandson of R.R. Donnelley, the founder of the company. Gaylord began his Donnelley career on a part-time basis during school vacations and joined full time upon graduation from Yale University in 1932. He served in a variety of manufacturing jobs in the Chicago division. Shortly after his return from active duty with the Navy in World War II, he was elected Vice President and Secretary of the company. In 1947, he was promoted to Executive Vice President. In 1952 he was named President, and in 1964 Chairman of the Board of Directors. He retired from active management in 1975, after serving the company for 43 years, but continued as a member of the board and chairman of the executive committee. In the early 1980s Gaylord Donnelley systematically reviewed his files. Subseries 4 represents what remains from that review. The majority is correspondence with chairmen of other companies from the 1980s. Many files contain correspondence on important RR Donnelley anniversary events and celebrations. The original order and classification has been retained.
Subseries 5: Thomas Elliot Donnelley entered his father’s printing business after his graduation from Yale University in 1889. Although the printing enterprise was relatively small at the time Thomas Elliot Donnelley came into it, it grew tremendously under his leadership. He became president in 1899 and held that position until 1934 when he became Chairman of the Board. He remained an honorary chairman of the board after his retirement on account of impaired health. He died on February 6, 1955. His genius for planning and executing large printing assignments came into play on many large jobs, including the Montgomery Ward catalog and the original productions of the Encyclopaedia Britannica when it first came to the United States. In 1908, he established one of the earliest schools for apprentice training in this country. The papers in Subseries 5 consist of personal correspondence, mainly with his family. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 12.
Subseries 6: Carl Doty, born in 1931, was an Indiana native. He obtained his Bachelor of Science degree from Butler University, and a Certified Public Accountant license. He joined RR Donnelley in 1960 as General Accounting Supervisor at the Willard, Ohio, Manufacturing Division. He proved himself to be a good leader in a variety of positions, including Controller (1965-1968), Customer Service Manager (1968-70), Group Superintendent (1970-73) and Director of the Warsaw, Ind. Manufacturing Division (1973-1975). He was elected Vice President in 1974 and then elected President of the company in March 1991. Subseries 6 contains speech notes made by Doty from 1988-1991.
Subseries 7: Charles C. Haffner, Jr. (1895-1979) began working for RR Donelley in 1933 as a treasurer. Haffner was successful at the company, moving his way up through a number of positions. In addition to his career at RR Donnelley, Haffner was distinguished in the United States Army. From 1915 through two world wars, he served the US Army with outstanding leadership that earned him numerous commendations. During WWII he became a Major General in the US Army and the Commander of the newly activated 103rd Division, which he led into combat in southern France in 1944. At the end of the war he returned to RR Donnelley. He was promoted to Vice President in 1945, and then President in 1948. He became the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer in 1952, and remained so until he retired in 1964. After retirement, he remained on the Board of Directors as Chairman of the Finance Committee, finally completely retiring as an Honorary Director in March 1978. Subseries 7 contains notes from Haffner’s speeches.
Subseries 8: William A. Kittredge (1891-1945) was a highly influential Chicago designer and author of articles on design. As a young man, he was apprenticed as a printer with G. Thomas Parkhurst of Parkhurst Press (Chelmsford, Massachusetts). He came to Chicago in 1922 as Director of Design and Typography for RR Donnelley, where he worked until his death. He had an incredible diversity of talent and was successful as a typographer, instructor, author, and lecturer. Among his major accomplishments was the highly regarded Four American Books project of 1926-1930. During his connection with RR Donnelley, Kittredge won great recognition in the book realm to the extent that 43 of his books appeared in 23 Fifty Books of the Year exhibitions sponsored by the American Institute of Graphic Arts. Subseries 8 contains drafts of some of Kittredge’s articles as well as design layouts.
Subseries 9: Charles W. Lake, born in 1918, joined RR Donnelley in 1946 having obtained a Bachelor’s degree in Administrative Mechanical Engineering from Cornell University. Lake quickly moved up at RR Donnelley. He was named Assistant to the Treasurer in 1947, then Manager of Management Studies in 1948. He obtained his Master’s Degree in Business Administration from the Executive Program of the University of Chicago in 1949 and was promoted to Director of Industrial Engineering. He became Vice President in 1953, and Senior Vice President of the Sales Division in 1963. He was President from 1964-1975, Chairman and President 1975-1981, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1981-1983. He retired in 1983. Subseries 9 contains corporate correspondence, business files, speech notes, and multiple audio tape recordings of interviews and speeches.
Subseries 10: Edward R. Lhotka, born in 1910, graduated from McCormick Grammar School in 1924. In 1924, at the age of 14, he became a pre-apprentice at R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company. His pre-apprenticeship was cut short when he was asked to work in the Extra Bindery under Alfred de Sauty. When he turned 16 he entered the apprentice program, and served his five-year apprenticeship in Extra Bindery. Lhotka’s primary responsibilities as a member of the staff of the Extra Bindery were forwarding and binding. Lhotka attended night school while employed at RR Donnelley, and graduated from the Proviso Township High School in 1955. He retired in 1972. Subseries 10 mainly consists of photographs of Lhotka’s work and the binding process. Oversize material from this subseries has been transferred to Subseries 12.
Subseries 11: C. Prentiss Smith became an RR Donnelley employee in 1929. In 1935 he joined the department of design and typography. He was an incredibly adept designer and became essential to projects of all types. He worked on company signs, in-house magazine covers, anniversary pins, retirement booklets, graduation certificates, and awards. He was also the lead designer for several of RR Donnelley's religious publishing accounts, including work for the Presbyterian Board, Pilgrim Press, and Westminster Press. For many years, he taught principles of design and typography in the RR Donnelley apprentice training school. When he retired, he set up a home studio and continued to design and print stationery, business cards, invitations, and other ephemera until the end of his life. Subseries 11 contains samples of hundreds of his designs (including, in many cases, the entire design sequence from original sketch to final product). This subseries also contains an interesting selection of World War II publications. Oversize material and artifacts from this subseries have been transferred to Subseries 12. The work of C. Prentiss Smith, including many original designs for company products, is often found in other parts of the collection, particularly in Series IX, XI and XII.
Subseries 12: Ernest Randall, Lakeside Press employee. After serving in the military during World War II, "Ernie" returned to operate presses. He was frequently commended for his work. This subseries contains correspondence and memoranda related to his career and military service. It includes his notebooks. Material spans the 1940s-1970s.
Subseries 13: Oversize Material and Artifacts, contains material transferred from previous subseries. The descriptive folder headings can be used to trace the material to its original location.
Photographs of many of these individuals are found in Series XI. Biographical material, often including photographs and personal correspondence, are found in Series I.
This series contains diverse materials collected under about seventy specific topics significant to the history of RR Donnelley, or to the history of printing in general. These topical headings are organized alphabetically within the series. Many of the headings correspond to departments of the company, clients, events, printing processes, types of products, and special projects. Much of the material in this series consists of RR Donnelley advertising pieces and other promotional items; also found are photographs, correspondence, reports, customer job samples, and artwork.
While material in this series can be used as an introduction to RR Donnelley's involvement with the topics at hand, it should also be viewed in conjunction with related material found elsewhere in the collection. This series contains both content duplicated in other series (for example, there is much duplication of promotional pieces found in Series 1 of this collection) as well as secondary and photocopied material that is mainly supplemental. However, this series also contains important material that is not reflected elsewhere in the collection. In particular, this series contains the collection's strongest representations of the Century of Progress; Extra Bindery and Graphic Conservation; financial printing operations; the Memorial Library and Training Library; data on printing presses operated in the company's plants; the development of the Indian head printer's mark and logo; the Four American Books; and electronic and digital printing processes developed in the 1970s-1990s.
Researchers should note that oversize material is found at the end of this series, forming another alphabetical sequence beginning with Box 505. Topical headings are consistent so that the association of material is clear.
The Special Collections Research Center also holds books drawn from the collection of the Training Library; these are cataloged in the Rare Books Collection.
This series consists of print materials drawn from the collections of RR Donnelley's Training Library. While some of the items were printed by RR Donnelley, many were created by other firms, and collected by the library as examples for staff training. The material in this series contains hundreds of samples of fine and specialty printing, much of it influenced by the Art Deco movement. The series also contains "everyday" ephemeral pieces such as maps, brochures and travel guides. Most of the material in the collection dates from the early and mid-twentieth century, with a predominance of material from the 1930s. A large number of items, particularly among the group of calendars, were produced in Germany.
Boxes 523-529 contain samples collected according to subject or format, and mounted for display. Captions on the mounts often include information about the printer and processes used to create the sample piece.
The remaining material in the collection consists of loose material, collected into the same types of categories.
As a collection of representative pieces of twentieth-century printing and design, the material in this series complements the company advertising pieces and customer job samples found in Series III and IV. Other material related to the Training Library, and to company training programs in general, are found throughout the collection, but particularly in Series V, IX, XI and XII.
While photographs and other visual material are found throughout the collection, this series represents the richest and most cohesive visual documentation of RR Donnelley. Spanning over 100 years of company history, the thousands of images in this series document subjects such as printing technologies and processes, work and leisure activities, plants and facilities, and special events. Audio-visual material, such as sound and video recordings, are also found in this series. A large collection of oral history recordings are included here, as are videos and films on a variety of subjects.
Many of the photographers are not identified, particularly in the case of informal snapshots. However, the company routinely hired professionals to produce formal industrial photographs; in many of these cases, the photographer or studio is identified. Among these, the best-represented is Torkel Korling, a Chicago-based photographer who worked for RR Donnelley on a freelance basis. His work is found throughout this series, and is often identified in folder-level descriptions.
Most of the photographs in this series are black and white prints, though color prints are also found. Corresponding negatives are often found filed with the prints, or in adjacent folders. Other common photographic formats include transparencies and slides.
A variety of audio-visual formats are found in this series. Formats for audio recordings include cassette tapes and 78 rpm records. Audio-visual formats include VHS videocassettes and filmstrips. These materials have not been reviewed for content or recording quality.
To distinguish among the broad types of subjects and formats, this series has been divided into twelve subseries.
Subseries 1-7 consist mainly of black-and-white photographic prints and negatives, and are distinguished by the subjects represented:
Subseries 1: Annual Reports, contains photographs, negatives and transparencies used in RR Donnelley's annual reports. The images often represent personnel, facilities, equipment, products and events.
Some supporting material, such as sample annual reports and editorial correspondence, is also included. This subseries is organized chronologically by year from 1962-1990, though there is little or no material included for many of the years in this date span. Oversize material is located in an additional sequence at the end of this subseries, beginning with Box 553.
Subseries 2: Apprentice Schools and Training Programs, contains photographs and negatives showing students, personnel, classrooms, and special events for these programs. Many formal and informal group photographs of apprentices are included in this subseries. Material in this subseries complements the textual and visual material in found in Series V.
Subseries 3: Extra Bindery and Graphic Conservation, contains mainly of photographs of jobs produced by these departments; most of the photographs depict leather bound books and are mounted. The subjects of most of these images are not identified. The remaining material in the collection shows staff members, facilities, and binding and conservation techniques in a variety of photographic formats. The photographs in this subseries complement the material on the Extra Bindery and Graphic Conservation departments found in Series IX.
Subseries 4: Industrial Engineering Studies, consists of prints and negatives, most measuring 4" x 5", taken between 1951 and 1966. The images, which were used to analyze work processes, show facilities, equipment, products and personnel in various stages of operations. Though few of the photographs are individually identified, most are roughly sorted according to the process represented. Descriptions of some of these processes are available in earlier inventories of this subseries.
Subseries 5: Plants and Facilities, represents several of RR Donnelley's plants in two distinct sequences of material. The first part of this subseries contain prints, negatives and color transparencies, most dating from the mid-twentieth century and organized according to plant location. Including in this part of the subseries are albums and loose photographs showing the construction of the Chicago complex, including the Calumet Avenue plant and auxiliary buildings; other plants in the United States and England are also represented. The second sequence of in this subseries contains slides of similar subjects; the slides date ca. 1960-1980s, and most are also organized according to plant location. The material in this subseries complements other facilities-related material found in Series II.
Subseries 6: Production, includes images of equipment, facilities, products and employees at work. Printing and binding technologies are documented in detail, as are diverse employee occupations. This subseries contains a large number of photographs taken by Torkel Korling, though not all are identified as such. This subseries is further organized into two distinct sequences of photographs: The first includes photographs taken at a variety of plants, particularly in the Chicago complex. The second sequence consists of manufacturing scenes taken entirely at the Crawfordsville plant. Unsorted photographs, some of which are individually identified, are found at the end of the subseries.
Subseries 7: Personnel, documents the work life and company-sponsored activities of RR Donnelley employees. Some traditional subjects are found, such as individual and group portraits, and scenes of workers on the job; however, most of the photographs in this subseries are informal photographs of leisure activities and events sponsored by the company. These include dinners and parties, sports teams, family-oriented outings, amateur theater productions, and lunch-hour games. Many of these activities were organized by the Lakeside Press Employees Association (LPEA).
Subseries 8: Torkel Korling Matted Photographs, includes a selection of the work of the Chicago freelance photographer who documented many of RR Donnelley's operations during the mid-twentieth century. The photographs in this subseries are black-and-white prints, generally measuring about 12"x10," and supplemented with additional descriptive information on the mats. The images, most of which date from around 1950, show RR Donnelley personnel engaged in day-to-day work, as well as studies of machinery and other equipment. The images are documentary in nature and were often used in company publications; however, many of them are striking in their balance of empathy toward human subjects with clear documentations of work processes. Some additional prints are found interleaved with the matted material. Korling's work is also represented in other subseries of this series, particularly Subseries 6.
Subseries 9-12 are distinguished by format, with various subjects represented in each:
Subseries 9: Slides, contains two broad types of item. The first part of the subseries contains slide presentations, organized chronologically and spanning the years 1969-1990. The slides from these presentations are often supplemented with transcripts and cassette recordings of speeches given with the presentation. The presentations often discuss management topics, strategic goals, company history and culture, and new products. The second part of this subseries is a general collection of thousands of slides, representing subjects similar to those in Subseries 5 and 6. Many of these slides are filed in cards or sheets and are well-identified; however, several boxes of unsorted and unidentified slides are also included. Many of these unsorted slides are individually identified on the boxes or frames.
Subseries 10: Vu-Graph Presentations, contains transparencies with accompanying text, dating to ca. 1950s-1960s. The presentations are on design subjects such as typography and layout, and were likely given in training courses by C. Prentiss Smith, whose personal papers are found in Series VIII.
Subseries 11: Audio Recordings, documents oral histories and company presentations. Most of the items in this subseries are cassette tape recordings of oral histories. Many of the oral histories also include reflections on the Donnelley family, and the individual careers of employees. Recorded between 1992-1995, the tapes are identified according to the dozens of individual employees who participated in the program. As personal recollections of RR Donnelley's development, these oral histories are complementary to material in Series VII, which include transcripts of oral history recordings and interviews. Also found in this subseries are several cassette recordings of presentation material, some of which appears to be related to the slide presentations in Subseries 7. There are also several unidentified cassette tapes. At the end of the subseries are two packaged and sealed 78 rpm records.
Subseries 12: Videotapes and Films, contains VHS videocassette tapes of presentations on management, company history, and Y2K technology compliance. Also included are three filmstrips whose content is not well-identified.
While artifact objects, original artworks, and print ephemera are found throughout the RR Donnelley Archive this series consolidates a wide variety of items collected for their value as visual or physical documents. While some of the items in this series are well-described due to the historical significance they held for the company, other material is unidentified and undated; some ephemeral material lacking direct relationship with the rest of the collection is also included here.
This series has been divided into seven subseries, in order to distinguish among the broad varieties of material included:
Subseries 1: Supply Samples, consists of samples of material, primarily paper goods, used in daily work at RR Donnelley. These include office supplies such as stationery, labels, forms, business cards and checks. Original artwork for some of this material, much of it created by C. Prentiss Smith, is also included. This subseries contains a large sampling of bookplates used at RR Donnelley, and includes correspondence related to the design of Memorial Library bookplates by Rudolph Ruzicka and Stephen Gooden.
Subseries 2: Memorabilia and Promotional Items, collects branded promotional objects and merchandise, much of it created to commemorate company achievements, such as the 125th anniversary of the company, or the opening of the headquarters building at 77 West Wacker Drive. A broad range of items is included, from paperweights to golf balls. Also included are historic documents that were framed displayed as commemorative pieces, as well as personal memorabilia significant to company history, such as a framed group of items related to Richard Robert and Naomi Donnelley.
Subseries 3: Printing Artifacts, consists mainly of printing plates and printer's cuts. The largest group of items is a set of twenty-three plates of New Yorker cartoons, each with a clipping of the printed version. There are also cuts of several versions of the Indian head printer's mark. Other printing-related objects, such as rulers and dies, are also included.
Subseries 4: Signage, includes informational broadsides posted on company buildings, a set of aluminum letters that formed a building entrance sign, and a large neon sign representing the RR Donnelley Indian head printer's mark.
Subseries 5: Decorative Art, contains paintings, drawings, and reproductions of artworks that represent company buildings, as well as a large number of items whose provenance and significance is not well-identified. Some of these items, including several prints and paintings, appear to have been transferred from the company's Graphic Conservation department.
Subseries 6: Job Samples, includes books that are preserved as artifacts in their original packaging, including shipping boxes and wrappers. These include copies of Moby Dick and Poe's Tales, a variety of Lakeside Classics editions, and Madonna's notorious 1992 book, Sex. Packaging materials for Poe's Tales are also included, as are proofs for several Four American Books illustrations. Reading copies of each of the Four American Books are available in the Special Collections Research Center's collection of rare books.
Subseries 7: Catalog Cards, consists of several distinct sets of catalog card files, as well as unsorted cards. Most, if not all, of the items cataloged were printed by RR Donnelley, and most of the files appear to have originated with the company's Training Library or Memorial Library. The largest and best-organized sets of files are organized according to author and title, publication date, or publisher; there is also a file of jobs printed for University of Chicago. The remaining files are not well identified, and there are several hundred unsorted cards.
This series documents the development of RR Donnelley as a corporation, from its establishment as a family-owned company in the nineteenth century, to its position as a global, publicly traded firm. This series includes material representing the company's financial conditions, administrative structure, management strategies, and corporate policies.
This series is organized into 12 subseries.
Subseries 1: Annual Reports, contains a collection of RR Donnelley's annual reports in a variety of formats, filed chronologically and spanning the years 1956-1995. Also included is a collection of annual report inserts and pamphlets from circa 1960s-1980s.
Subseries 2: Annual Talks, spans the years 1916-1990, with material concentrated in the 1940s-1980s. This subseries documents speeches given by management to RR Donnelley employees. Many of the earlier files in this subseries document speeches given to graduating classes of the company's apprentice school. Material in this subseries includes drafts and printed copies of speeches, presentation materials, publicity material, and related correspondence. Files in this subseries are arranged chronologically.
Subseries 3: Executive Speeches, spans the years 1956-2000, with material concentrated in the years 1989-2000. This subseries documents speeches given by RR Donnelley executives in a variety of settings, including annual meetings, shareholder meetings, employee events, conferences, seminars, and meetings of professional organizations and private clubs. Material in this subseries includes speech drafts, transcripts, slides, publicity material, and related correspondence.
Subseries 4: Organization Charts and Manuals, spans the years 1927-1994, with files arranged chronologically. Material in this subseries represents the company's administrative structure, management reporting lines, and development of organizational policies.
Subseries 5: Lakeside Trust, consists of material related to the management of the company's finances and assets. This subseries includes material such as contracts, leases, stock documents, ledgers, receipts, copyright and trademark filings, insurance documents and tax records. Files are arranged alphabetically, spanning the years 1891-1970. Oversize material has been transferred to Subseries 12.
Subseries 6: Contribution Books, contains annual records of RR Donnelley's donations and charitable gifts. The subseries spans the years 1973-1989; for most of this period, these activities were administrated by a Contributions Committee. Records were compiled annually into loose-leaf "books" containing agendas, memoranda, budgets, financial statements and reports.
Subseries 7: Forecasting and Planning, included material related to long-term planning for the company's development. Overall company strategic planning is represented in this subseries, as are forecasting and planning for several individual divisions and work groups. Files in this subseries are arranged chronologically, and contain material such as reports, financial analyses, drafts and transcripts of speeches, memoranda and meeting agendas. This subseries spans the years 1958-1988; documents generally reflect the company's expectations of a five- or ten-year period in the future.
Subseries 8: Charles C. Haffner, Jr. Papers, consists of material collected by this RR Donnelley officer and member of the Donnelley family. This subseries reflects a variety of Haffner's activities and concerns, including the assets and estates of Donnelley family members, the acquisition of the Chicago Electrotype and Stereotype Company, administrative and financial structuring, company policies, and labor relations. Material in this subseries spans the years 1928-1968.
Subseries 9: Charles W. Lake Papers, consists of material collected by this RR Donnelley officer. Material in this subseries documents Lake's relations with Donnelley customers, his pursuit of technological innovation, his interest in company history, the company's financial conditions, and the development of regional printing plants. It includes long and reflective correspondence that Lake conducted with other company officers, including Gaylord Donnelley and Jack Schwemm. Files are organized alphabetically by subject or format, and contain material such as correspondence, announcements, reports, meeting transcripts, drafts of speeches and presentations, publicity material and clippings. Material in this subseries spans the years 1943-1995. Oversize material has been transferred to Subseries 12.
Subseries 10: General Financial Records, spans the years 1890-1995, though the bulk of materials are concentrated in the mid-twentieth century. This subseries consists of broad types of financial records filed together, many of which represent brief, concentrated periods of time in the company's history. Included are stock records; incorporation documents and tax records for the states of Illinois, Indiana and Michigan; financial analyses; insurance policy materials; records of personal accounts, including stock holdings of employees and the Donnelley family; shareholders' and Board of Directors' meeting minutes; a City National Bank and Trust account agreement; and loan agreements. Oversize material has been transferred to Subseries 12.
Subseries 11: Subject File, consists of a wide variety of management documents and reference files, organized alphabetically by subject. Materials range in date from 1909-1993, and include correspondence, reports, transcripts of meetings and presentations, speech drafts, policy statements and employee profiles.
Subseries 12: Oversize, consists of insurance policy and patent material transferred from Subseries 5; Charles W. Lake's Presidential Directives Manual, transferred from Subseries 9; and a book of stock certificates issued in the State of Indiana for the R.R. Donnelley-Crawfordsville Company.
Additional material related to corporate management is found in Series I, II, VIII, IX, XI, XVII, XVIII, and IXX. Audio recordings of corporate meetings and talks are found in Series IXX.
This series documents RR Donnelley activities related to marketing its services to clients and the public. Included are materials from advertising campaigns, public events, and industry conferences.
RR Donnelley often re-packaged customer jobs as promotional gifts or advertisements: Folder descriptions identify customer names when known. Specific technologies, services and events are also identified if known.
This series is organized into three subseries:
Subseries 1: Chronological Files, contains material from circa 1925-2002, and includes samples of company advertisements, promotional gifts (such as print portfolios, facsimiles of historic documents, and framing prints), as well as exhibition catalogs, invitations, brochures, service directories, customer newsletters, service guides, internal market analyses, and related notes and correspondence. Production-related material, such as job specifications, invoices, and related correspondence is included with some samples. Samples are not included for every advertisement or promotional piece. Oversize advertising samples have been transferred to Subseries 4.
Subseries 2: Lakeside Classics, documents the production and marketing of this promotional book series from 1927-2001, with the bulk of files dating from the 1970s-1990s. Files in this subseries are arranged alphabetically by subject. Included are proofs, reproductions of illustrations, contracts, financial records, notes and correspondence.
Subseries 3: Oversize Samples, contains material transferred from Subseries 1. This subseries is further arranged into five sub-subseries by size. Files are organized chronologically within each sub-subseries. Included in this subseries are samples of promotional gift items such as framing prints, portfolios and publications. Also included are oversize samples of print advertisements. Some files include production-related material.
Additional material related to advertising and promotions is found in Series III, VI, IX, and XX.
This is the largest series in the R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company Archive, and contains samples of thousands of products RR Donnelley printed for its customers, as well as material related to customer relationship management. Material in this series spans the years 1869-2002; however, material is heavily concentrated in the late twentieth century.
Staff of RR Donnelley often collected samples of other printing companies' products for the purposes of research, reference and competitive intelligence; therefore, this series includes samples of items that were not printed by RR Donnelley. Some, but not all of these samples are identified as being printed outside RR Donnelley.
This series is organized into thirteen subseries. Subseries 1-9 primarily contain samples of products printed by RR Donnelley, with a small amount of supporting material such as correspondence and job specifications. Subseries 10-12 document specific aspects of customer relationship management, including sales and product development. Throughout, oversize material has been transferred to Subseries 13.
Subseries 1: Alphabetical Files includes a variety of product samples, filed alphabetically by customer name or product title. While material in this subseries spans the years 1895-2002, the majority of the items are catalog and magazine samples dating from the 1970s-1990s. This subseries also contains smaller numbers of product samples from earlier in the company's history, as well as job specifications, clippings, publicity material, reports, and correspondence with customers.
Subseries 2: Books, contains samples of books printed by RR Donnelley from 1869 to 2000. It is divided into several sections. The first is primarily commercial books, printed from 1955 to 2000, which contains some text books, some instructional manuals, and many pocket books, as well as a Bible. The second section contains academic books printed from 1920 to 1950 on various historical and sociological topics. The last section contains books about Chicago and some published by The University of Chicago, printed from 1869 to 1928.
Subseries 3: Direct Mail, contains examples of direct mail advertising printed by RR Donnelley during the 1990s and 2000s. This subseries consists primarily of insert advertisements, although it also includes some insert catalogs and direct mail notifications. There are two folders which have examples from city-specific direct mail campaigns and a case study report on RR Donnelley's direct mail campaign efforts.
Subseries 4: Financial Printing, contains materials printed by RR Donnelley from 1989-2002, for other companies related to budget planning and other financial planning issues, such as payment and investment plans and employee coverage. These materials were printed for both American and foreign companies, as well as for RR Donnelley itself. The materials have been arranged alphabetically throughout the subseries except at the end, which contains several folders of financial planning samples by individual authors. These have been arranged alphabetically and chronologically.
Subseries 5: Foreign Language Products, contains magazines, catalogs, books, and direct mail samples printed by RR Donnelley for foreign markets from 1992-2002. This subseries has been broken into two main categories – magazines and catalogs. Both magazines and catalogs have been arranged into general subsections, such as men's, women's, and film. There are several direct mail samples and inserts, as well as a few foreign language books, placed at the end of the subseries. This subseries has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Subseries 6: Sears Catalogs, contains samples of catalogs printed by RR Donnelley for Sears from 1936 to 1993. The majority of the collection consists of seasonal "Big Book" catalogs, some printed for markets in specific cities. As the "Big Book" was phased out, there are more examples of catalogs for specific items, such as power tools or toys for children. There are also fashion catalogs, and catalogs for uniforms, and for farm tools. Many of the samples are custom bound. This subseries has been arranged chronologically.
Subseries 7: Software Packaging and Manuals, is composed of software manuals and packages printed by RR Donnelley between 1985 and 2002. These manuals cover software programs such as rendering programs for art and design, processors, and operating systems. There are also samples of software packaging for several companies and software developers. This subseries is arranged alphabetically by customer or product name.
Subseries 8: Telephone Directories, contains three main sections of files, spanning the years 1977-2002. The first section contains samples of entire telephone directories for cities or areas, including directories from the United States and international locations. The second section contains production notes for specific sections within telephone directories, such as color advertisements or community information. The last section contains samples of covers and pages for specific cities or companies, but not entire directories. This subseries is arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Subseries 9: Tributes, Bookplates and Memorials, contains samples of products honoring customers, guests, employees, and other individuals and groups affiliated with RR Donnelley. It also includes samples of such items produced for customers. Material in this subseries includes, retirement announcements, retirement and anniversary party invitations, bookplate designs, and memorial publications. Material is arranged by format, then alphabetically by individual or customer name. The contents of this subseries span the years 1925-1972
Subseries 10: ALCOA, 1962-1967, documents RR Donnelley's negotiations with ALCOA, the world's leading producer of aluminum and an important customer. Much of the material in this subseries relates to pricing redeterminations and contract revisions. Files in this subseries are arranged alphabetically by subject, and contain material such as ledgers, reports, correspondence, invoices, and contracts. Oversize material has been transferred to subseries 13.
Subseries 11: Customer Call Records, consists of cards used to document contacts made by RR Donnelley's sales staff to individual customers. The cards contain detailed information about sales staff, customers, contracts and orders. Represented are major customers of RR Donnelley, as well as smaller concerns and other companies whom RR Donnelley solicited as potential customers. This subseries has been arranged alphabetically by customer and then chronologically, spanning the years 1909-1968.
Subseries 12: Copyright Files, contains records of copyrights managed RR Donnelley and affiliated individuals. These records span the years 1940 to 1970, with files arranged chronologically. Materials in this subseries consist mainly of copyright applications, forms and instructions.
Subseries 13: Oversize, consists of material transferred from previous subseries. Most of the items in this subseries are oversize product samples transferred from Subseries 1-6, including posters, art prints, wall calendars, portfolios, magazines and newspaper supplements. Also included are mimeograph stencils transferred from Subseries 10. This subseries has been further organized into sub-subseries: Sub-subseries 1-4 are organized by size, then organized alphabetically by customer name. Sub-subseries 5 consists of books transferred from Subseries 2.
Additional material related to RR Donnelley's customers and products is found in Series IV, IX, and XX.
This series contains material related to internal communication at RR Donnelley, as well as external communications to news media such as magazines and newspapers. The contents document business developments, internal news, and corporate policies. Material in this series spans the years 1907-2002, and includes company magazines and newsletters, clippings, announcements, news releases, memoranda, directories, pamphlets, brochures, editorial material, historical research and oral history transcripts.
This series is divided into eight subseries.
Subseries 1: Company Magazine, consists of copies of RR Donnelley's in-house periodical, forming a complete run of the magazine from 1916-1994, with duplicate copies for most volumes. Both bound volumes and loose individual issues are included, in files organized chronologically. The magazine was published under several titles, including Lakeside Press (1916-1934); Lakeside News (1935-1958); Lakeside Review (1959-1964); The Donnelley Printer (1965-1986); and The Printer (1987-1995). Content includes company news, features on individual employees and departments, photographs, artwork, and texts of reports and speeches. Issues from the 1920s-1950s are notable for cover art designed by company employees.
Subseries 2: Newsletters, contains periodicals published mainly for the internal audience of RR Donnelley employees. These newsletters published announcements relating to customers, products and business developments; transcripts of speeches; updates on facilities and equipment; and features on individual employees, events, and special achievements. Because titles changed frequently, newsletters are organized by division or department; files are then organized chronologically. Included are newsletters from 1930-2002, representing RR Donnelley divisions, offices and plants in the United States, United Kingdom and Singapore.
Subseries 3: Announcements, News Releases and Corporate Memoranda, contains short documents intended to communicate official company positions to either the internal audience of employees, or to the external audience of the media and general public. Much of the content of these documents relates to company policies, staff responsibilities, and business developments. Files in this subseries are organized chronologically from 1949-2001. Some files include secondary summaries, indexes, and annotations.
Subseries 4: Company Directories, contains material from 1933-2002, filed chronologically. Most of the directories cover the Chicago Manufacturing Division, or the company as a whole. Also included are smaller pocket directories, directories of retired employees, and directories for travel service vendors. The directories are generally organized by employee names or by work unit, and include contact information. Some copies are annotated by employees.
Subseries 5: Subject Files, contains material spanning the years 1917-2001, filed alphabetically by subject. Material in this subseries includes reprints and clippings from the company magazine, pamphlets, brochures, books, periodicals, interoffice memoranda and announcements. Many of the subjects in this subseries relate to business developments, company history and identity, printing technologies, divisions and departments, current events and social topics. This subseries includes official statements on topics such as diversity, environmental policy and business ethics.
Subseries 6: Crawfordsville Division Research, 1995-1996, documents work towards a publication commemorating the 75th anniversary of RR Donnelley's plant in Crawfordsville, Indiana. This subseries contains photocopies of primary material, including correspondence, articles and business records; transcripts of interviews with employees; notes, drafts and reports on the publication project.
The date range given in folder descriptions does not refer to the date span of documents, but to the time period that was being researched. This subseries contains a concentration of material from the mid-twentieth century, and from the years 1995-1996 when the publication was researched. Cassette tapes of oral history interviews have been transferred to Series IXX: Subseries 2.
Subseries 7: Media Coverage, contains a set of clipping service packets collected from 1976-2001, and filed chronologically. These packets were compiled by RR Donnelley staff to keep managers informed about mentions of the company in news media. Organized in a second chronological sequence are magazines, newspapers, trade journals, clippings, and a small amount of editorial material such as correspondence and proofs.
Subseries 8: Oversize, contains material transferred from Subseries 2, 4 and 5. Material can be traced to its original location through folder descriptions. Included in this subseries are large broadsides announcing the company's mission statements and creeds, corporate identity standards manuals, broadsides stating supervisors' duties, a satirical newsletter from the company's graphics division, and directory signs for offices in the company's Calumet building tower.
Additional material related to RR Donnelley communications and media relations is found in Series II, VII, IX, XI, and IXX.
This series contains material related to RR Donnelley's development and management of its workforce. Material in this series spans the years 1904-1999, and includes meeting minutes, contracts, agreements, briefs, historical writings and research, brochures, pamphlets, handbooks, manuals, instructional materials, correspondence, policy statements, reports, newsletters, broadsides, announcements and memorabilia.
This series is divided into ten subseries:
Subseries 1: Labor Relations, documents the relationship of RR Donnelley to organized labor, labor activists, employer advocacy groups, and agencies governing labor relations. Material in this subseries spans the years 1904-1989, and includes reports, meeting minutes, contracts, agreements, briefs, correspondence, historical writings and research, broadsides, pamphlets and manuals. Files are arranged alphabetically by subject or format. Well-represented in this subseries are negotiations between RR Donnelley and labor organizations, particularly the International Printing Pressmen and Assistants' Union of North America; attempts to unionize parts of the company during the twentieth century; the company's communication of labor relations policy through internal pamphlets and manuals; arbitration and enforcement of the 1921 Landis Award, including the activities of the Citizens' Committee to Enforce the Landis Award; and research on RR Donnelley labor history conducted by Herbert P. Zimmerman and Robert L. Hildebrand.
Subseries 2: Managers' and Supervisors' Manuals, includes material for the guidance of management staff in day-to-day employee relations. The company's employee relations policies and practices are documented in great detail. Manuals span the years 1950-1994, and are arranged chronologically.
Subseries 3: Training, includes material related to the RR Donnelley's apprentice programs, instructional courses, and professional development offerings. Included in this series are instructional manuals, course catalogs, course development materials, and instructor's manuals and notes. Files in this series span the years 1915-1995, and are organized alphabetically by title or course subject. Most of the material in this subseries was produced by RR Donnelley's Training Department or Apprentice School; however, this subseries also includes instructional material produced by the Printing Industry of America and other organizations.
Subseries 4: Recruitment, contains brochures and pamphlets meant to attract potential employees to RR Donnelley. This material is arranged chronologically by title or subject, and spans the years 1910s-1985.
Subseries 5: Compensation and Benefits, includes material related to salaries, wages, health care, dental care, retirement plans, medical and military leave, child care, and unemployment. Material in this series spans the years 1908-1999, and includes brochures, pamphlets, correspondence, policy statements, financial planning kits, and benefit plan reports. Files are arranged alphabetically by subject.
Subseries 6: Employee Organizations, Activities and Events, spans the years 1909-1999. Much of this subseries consists of material related events organized by the Lakeside Press Employees Association (LPEA). Also included are files on other employee clubs and associations, as well as materials related to employment anniversaries, awards, and special events. Material in this subseries included broadsides, newsletters, invitations, announcements, pamphlets, association by-laws, correspondence, and a cookbook produced by the Donnelley Club.
Subseries 7: Retirees, includes directories of retired employees published from 1961-1996; newsletters and memorabilia from the company's Retired Employees Club, 1971-1996; and a large collection of printed materials honoring retired employees. This material consists mainly of inserts intended to be added to a retiree's signature book; the insert honors the individual employee's character and his or her contribution to the company. A smaller number of these items are in the form of tributary pamphlets, announcements and invitations. Several retirement signature books, all blank, are also included as samples, as is a file of correspondence related to the production and ordering of signature books.
Subseries 8: Employee Handbooks, contains items dating from 1929-1985. These handbooks oriented new employees to RR Donnelley, and reinforced company rules and policies. Many of the handbooks were printed in multiple editions over many years. Also included is an employee handbook for another company, Illinois Tool Works. Handbooks are organized alphabetically by title, then chronologically.
Subseries 9: Timesheets and Payroll Ledgers, contains items dating from 1936-1951. Timesheets are for individual employees working in 1950-1959, and show hours worked, pay rates, deductions, and benefits accruals. Also included with the timesheets is a comparison of employee earnings from 1946-1950. Dating from 1936-1961, the payroll ledgers consist of oversize sheets listing employees by department, and show earnings, pay rates, deductions, and benefits accruals. Several different departments within both the Chicago and Crawfordsville plants are represented in this subseries; however, neither the timesheets nor the payroll ledgers form a complete sequence.
Subseries 10: Oversize, contains large items transferred from Subseries 2 and 5. Included are a scrapbook of wages and benefits announcements, broadsides for company picnics, journeyman graduation certificates, broadsides and posters for the "Donnelley Savers" energy conservation program, and instructional broadsides on hand binding practices in the Apprentice School.
Additional material related to the management and development of RR Donnelley personnel is found in Series V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XVI and IXX.
This series documents RR Donnelley buildings, properties, and facilities, as well as day-to-day printing operations that formed the core of the company's activities. Material in this series spans the years 1872-2000, although material is heavily concentrated in the mid- to late twentieth century.
This series is divided into eight subseries:
Subseries 1: Building and Properties, contains drawings, brochures, blueprints, and correspondence. This subseries has been organized by building, with files arranged alphabetically and then chronologically. This subseries includes drawings for building layouts and equipment, informational brochures from contractors for printing and utility equipment, and correspondence with architects and contractors.
Subseries 2: Facilities Management, includes plant site surveys, equipment reports, construction contracts, deeds, leases, and titles related to RR Donnelley's land purchases and construction. This includes correspondence and reports from contractors, copies of deeds and leases and other government documents, surveys of potential plant sites, and reports on printing equipment for plants. This subseries has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Subseries 3: Industrial Engineering, contains materials related to research and development in printing equipment. The bulk of this material is related to RR Donnelley's development of technology and templates for National Geographic magazines. This subseries also includes patent applications and documentation. This subseries has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Subseries 4: Procedure Manuals, contains instructional books detailing the day-to-day operating procedures of RR Donnelley's company plants. These books document company-wide procedures, as well as those for various printing departments within the company. This subseries is arranged alphanumerically and then chronologically.
Subseries 5: Equipment Manuals and Specifications, contains books detailing the specifications for operating printing equipment, including presses and mechanical folders. This subseries has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Subseries 6: Typeface Specimens, contains indices and samples of various typefaces. These show examples of different typefaces available at RR Donnelley's printing plants. This subseries has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Subseries 7: Alphabetical Files, contains a selection of correspondence, reports, and memos regarding the history, maintenance, and goals of RR Donnelley's printing facilities. This includes a brief history of some plants, reports on the daily operations of facilities, and correspondence regarding proposals and new land purchases. Thus subseries has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Subseries 8: Oversize, contains large blueprints for buildings, equipment, and utilities for RR Donnelley's printing plants, all transferred from subseries 1. File are organized by size, and then by building name.
Additional materials related to RR Donnelley's facilities and operations are found in Series II, IX, XI, XII, IXX, and XX.
This series contains visual, audio, and multimedia documentation of RR Donnelley's employees, facilities, equipment, products, promotional efforts and communications programs.
This series is divided by format into seven subseries:
Subseries 1: Photographs, includes material from 1871-circa 1990s. Material in this subseries consists primarily of prints and slides, but also includes negatives, transparencies, and related notes and correspondence. Many of the images are portraits of employees on the occasion of employment anniversaries and retirements. Most, though not all of these individuals are identified on the photographs. Also included are photographs of plants, facilities, equipment, employees, and products; many of these images are unidentified. Among the unidentified or minimally identified photographs in this subseries, many appear to represent the Documentation Services Division of the company's Crawfordsville, Indiana plant around 1992.
Subseries 2: Audio Recordings, consists of cassette tapes and audio reel tapes, spanning the years 1958-1996. Included in this subseries is a set of recordings of oral history interviews with staff of RR Donnelley's Crawfordsville plant, transferred from XVI, Subseries 6. Also included are recordings of meetings, talks and events; company orientation and benefits presentations; and information about facilities, products and equipment.
Subseries 3: Films, contains 16-millimeter and 8-millimeter film reels and filmstrip fragments dating from the 1950s-1970s. Many films are unidentified, or minimally identified with a number or code. The largest group of films in this subseries are related to industrial engineering studies carried out at RR Donnelley, particularly time-motion studies of the use of printing facilities and equipment. The work process demonstrated is sometimes identified on the film canister. Other films in this subseries relate to promotional campaigns, employee activities and special events.
Subseries 4: Video Recordings, consists of videocassettes and video tape reels from circa 1970s-2000. A variety of formats are found, with VHS, Betamax, and PAL the most common. The content of most of the videos falls into several broad areas, including annual reports, conferences and presentations, human resources, television broadcast segments, and content for "video wall" presentations. Also included are general collections of videos, including content documenting RR Donnelley's divisions and subsidiary companies, and three unidentified recordings.
Subseries 5: Microfilm, contains items from circa 1970s-1980s. The content of the microfilm rolls is of two distinct types. Two rolls of microfilm, produced by the University of Chicago Library consist of photoduplications of books considered for reprinting in the Lakeside Classics series; the remaining rolls contain mechanical illustrations.
Subseries 6: Computer Disks and CD-ROMs, contains items from 1990-1999. Included are disks of data related to corporate presentations, promotional campaigns, the company's 1992 annual report, and the retirement of Charles W. Lake.
Subseries 7: Multimedia Kits, contains material from 1993-1999. These kits were produced for presentations, workshops or other formal communications in the company, and include a combination of video, digital, and text content. Much of this subseries consists of a series of presentations of company values, titled "Work and Progress." Also included are kits for presentation and instruction on the topics of sales and marketing, human resources, and management leadership.
Photographs, audio-visual, and multimedia materials are also found in Series XI. Additional photographs are found throughout the collection, particularly in Series I, II, V, and IX.
This series contains a variety of items collected for their value as visual or physical documents, as well as material commemorating special achievements and events.
This series is divided into 7 subseries. Subseries 1 and 2 are collections of material relating to particular individuals or events; the remaining subseries are distinguished by the format or function of the items they contain.
Subseries 1: C. Prentiss Smith Collection, consists of material produced or collected by one of RR Donnelley's most prolific designers. Smith's collection includes samples, designs and specifications for products that he designed: well-represented are his designs for employee service anniversary memorabilia; religious publications, and book bindings. This subseries also contains selections of broadsides, catalogs, periodicals, illustrations, pamphlets, and other printed items from a variety of sources: These were collected by Smith for study and reference. Files in this subseries falls into four broad areas: Files relating to RR Donnelley's in-house and promotional products; files on customer jobs; files of design and printing samples collected for study and reference; and artwork such as sketches and paintings. Files in this subseries are organized by size, then by the four main categories above. Material in this subseries spans the 1920s-1970s.
Subseries 2: World War II Collection, spans the years 1941-1948. The bulk of the collection consists of newsletters produced by RR Donnelley employees for co-workers serving in the war. Individual issues of the newsletters are filed alphabetically by title; clippings and bound compilations of various titles are also included. This subseries also contains memorabilia documenting RR Donnelley's policies and activities during World War II: this material includes policy statements, photographs, pamphlets, and mailings.
Subseries 3: Stationery and Office Forms, contains samples of paper supplies used at RR Donnelley and affiliated organizations between the 1870s-1990s. This subseries includes items such as letterhead, envelopes, note paper, folders, notices, cards, and financial forms. Also included are inventory cards; a small number of samples of stationery used by other organizations; a research file on the development of in-house paper supplies; and files on supply production and ordering, including proofs and design layouts by C. Prentiss Smith. This subseries is organized alphabetically by administrative unit or product type.
Subseries 4: Paintings, Drawings and Art Prints, contains artworks from the late nineteenth century through the 1970s. Many of these items served decorative purposes, while others were used for research, or produced as part of printing operations. Most of the lithographs and other art prints were not produced by RR Donnelley. This subseries contains a rubbing of the Trajan Column inscription made by Father Edward Catich. It also includes a portfolio of photographs by Torkel Korling, drawings of architectural features, artworks interpreting the RR Donnelley Indian head logo, and designs for exhibitions and conference booths. Material in this subseries is organized by size.
Subseries 5: Memorabilia, Promotional and Decorative Items, contains a wide variety of items from the late nineteenth century through the 1990s. Memorabilia in this subseries includes personal items, such as honorary certificates, plaques and memorial displays. Also included are company memorabilia such as trophies and banners, which commemorate company anniversaries, awards and other achievements. Promotional pieces in this subseries are examples of items given to staff, clients and consumers; such items include paperweights, desk ornaments, toys and coffee mugs. Decorative items consist mainly of pieces used as office décor, including a brass spittoon, desk ornaments, and framed items with inspirational or humorous messages. Material in this subseries is organized by size.
Subseries 6: Architectural Artifacts, contains items from the company's Calumet Avenue plant, including large, decorative windows that were once installed in the building's Memorial Library; wooden blocks used in floor construction; a finial and a sprinkler head. Also included are bricks, signage components, and other fragmentary items from several company buildings. Most of these items are undated, but were produced in the early- to mid-twentieth century. This subseries is organized by size.
Subseries 7: Equipment and Printing Artifacts, contains a wide variety of operational equipment, tools, and samples of printing technology output. Most of these items are undated, but were produced or used at the company in the twentieth century. Included are type pieces, typesetting tools, fragments of printing presses and other machinery, printing plates and blocks, signs, and office equipment. This series also includes product samples of an artifactual nature, such as games, puzzles and kits. Samples of printing technology output include paper samples, proof sheets and portfolios; much of this material is not attributed to RR Donnelley. This subseries is organized by size.
Artifacts, artwork and memorabilia are also found in Series XII.
The Dave Dugan Zen Comix Collection contains five artworks from 2015-2017: The Beerfoot Servants, Jack in the Box, and Tampon Platitudes from 2015, Electric Mud from 2016, and an untitled collection of 14 large-scale comics from 2016-2017.
The items in Box 1 are from 2015. The Beerfoot Servants is a comic about a jazz band, made with India ink and watercolor applied to both sides of four pieces of handmade paper (each 18 x 27 cm). The paper is stored in a cereal box (28.5 x 19.5 x 5 cm) decorated with white exterior house paint and a black ink drawing. Jack in the Box is comprised of a ring of handmade paper bearing the title, author’s name, and copyright date, wrapped around a painted Altoids tin, inside of which is an accordion-folded strip of paper (52 x 7 cm) made of two 27-centimeter strips of handmade paper adhered together. Each segment of the folded paper bears a few words and a related image, written and drawn using Crowquill, India ink, and watercolor. Tampon Platitudes consists of a receipt from a HyVee grocery store dated March 20, 2015, with a drawing of a woman on the back with text beginning “You don’t need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows…”. The receipt is rolled tightly, to fit into two cardboard tampon applicator tubes, one end of each of which is blocked with rolled up handmade paper.
Box 2 contains Electric Mud, 2016, a loose-leaf book of words and drawings about blues music. The piece consists of six circular pieces of handmade paper (diameter 19 cm), decorated with India ink and watercolor. These papers are numbered (1-12) like pages in a book, and held in a cover (21 x 21 x 2.5 cm) made of handmade paper with the title, artist’s name, and copyright date on the spine. The book is housed in a plastic Ferrero Rocher box (21.5 x 21.5 x 4 cm) with a paper bearing title, artist and date adhered to the top. The box is tied with green ribbon to a piece of handmade paper (29 x 22 cm) on which is printed, “‘May you be in heaven a full half hour before Dick Cheney knows you are dead’ - Irish American Blessing”.
Box 3 contains an untitled collection of 14 large-scale comics from 2016-2017, drawn with India ink, acrylic paint, and watercolor on handmade paper (20 x 74 cm). The comics are stacked in a handmade wooden box (27 x 79 x 7.5 cm) with two sheets of blank handmade paper, one at the top and one at the bottom. Dugan has referred to these works as his “large scale comic strip project,” as well as “comic strips about comic strips,” on the Zen Comix website. Each comic has a title and a satirical author’s name, such as Live Free or Diet by “Newt Hempshire” (2017), Cow 3.1416 by “Anna Motapia” (2016) and Underdog, Invisible, with Liberace by “Anne Justizfahal” (2016). Several of the comics (such as Underdog, Indivisible, with Liberace; White Washing Ton; and The Fissure King) satirize Donald Trump.
The Everett Cherrington Hughes Papers have been divided into nine series: (1) Personal, (2) Professional Correspondence, (3) Course Work, (4) Writings and Research Material, (5) French Canada Studies, (6) University of Kansas Studies on Medical and General Education, (7) Helen MacGill Hughes, (8) Audio-Visual Materials, and (9) Letters of Reference, Grant Evaluations, and Referee Reports.
The concentration of material covers the period of the 1960s and 1970s. Two heavily documented projects from the late 50s and 60s are projects done at the University of Kansas on general undergraduate and medical education (1952-1964) located in Series VI, and the study for Canada's Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism (1963-1965) located in Series V.
The collection includes Hughes's diaries that included field notes, memoranda, and diary entries along with personal and professional observations. Hughes dictated the memos with an audiograph, and a secretary transcribed them in duplicate or triplicate. The transcriptions and tapes are located in Series VIII. The memoranda are found in a concentrated group now found in Series IV. We have maintained Hughes's filing system. The travel diaries have been grouped together in Series IV.
Series I, Personal, consists of curriculum vitae, bibliographies, awards received, interviews, and biographical and autobiographical essays. In particular, there is an annotated bibliography of works by Hughes that was probably compiled by Helen Hughes around 1967. The series includes essays by other authors on the Chicago school of sociology. Also included are Hughes reminiscences of student days in Chicago, written in memoranda form in the late 1970s. The memos recall course work, attitudes, and interests of both graduate students and professors, as well as stories of Robert Park, Nels Anderson, Robert Redfield, Helen MacGill, and Ruth Shonle Cavan.
Series II, Correspondence, is arranged alphabetically by name. The concentration of material dates from the 1960s and 1970s but includes letters as early as 1926 and as late as 1982. The correspondence is professional and includes other types of materials such as manuscripts, conference papers, and meeting minutes. There is an extensive exchange with David Riesman, Nels Anderson, Allison Davis, Meyer Fortes, Clifford Geertz, Erving Goffman, Andrew M. Greeley, Robert Havinghurst, Morris Janowitz, Margaret Mead, W. Lloyd Warner, and Leslie A. White. Hughesís work with the Social Science Research Council's Committee on Socio-linguistics and American Medical Association committee work are represented in this series.
Series III covers the period 1927 to 1977 and contains course materials. This series has been divided into seven subseries: (1) McGill University, (2) University of Chicago, (3) Brandeis University, (4) Boston College, (5) Visiting Seminars and Lectures, (6) Miscellaneous Lectures, and (7) Student Work.
The first four subseries correspond to the university teaching posts Hughes held, and the files are arranged by course number and title. The material in the folders includes lectures and lecture notes, syllabi, bibliographies, course outlines, exam questions, mimeographed handouts, course diaries, memoranda, manuscripts by other authors and students, reprints, and newspaper clippings. Prominent subjects of instruction represented in these forms are mass movements and collective behavior, social institutions, professions, race and ethnic relations, and field work. Much of the earlier material from McGill or the University of Chicago is found in the later files reflecting Hughes's continuity of interests.
Subseries 5 and 6 are lectures not tied specifically to a university or course. These files contain lecture notes and lectures with a few other course materials such as those outlined above. Both subseries are arranged chronologically within subject areas. Subseries 7 contains undergraduate and graduate papers and assignments arranged by students' last names. Titles, courses, or dates are not consistently identifiable.
Series IV, Research and Writings, covers the period 1922-1980 and has been arranged into eight subseries: (1) Travel Diaries and Memoranda, (2) Research Materials, (3) Note Cards, ca. 1920s-1930s, (4) Translations, (5) Book Reviews, (6) Manuscripts, (7) Publishing Correspondence, (8) Publications.
Subseries 1, Travel Diaries and Memoranda, has been arranged chronologically. Many of the memoranda are titled and concern places and topics including Japan and the bombing of Hiroshima, universities and education in the U.S. and abroad, professional meetings, and current social and political events.
Subseries 2, Research Materials, is a group of miscellaneous projects with which Hughes was involved. The general areas in the files reflect Hughes's areas of study: race relations, occupations, and professions. They are loosely arranged by date and subject. The first is a student study of Bridgeport, (Chicago, Illinois) done in 1925-1926. Also included in this subseries are his work on the German Catholic labor movement and his work with the Committee on Human Relations in Industry. During his stay in Germany, Hughes collected German newspapers following the rise of the Nazi party, which are housed in Oversize Boxes 145-147. A travel diary with notes from Frankfurt in 1948 is filed in subseries 2, because this travel diary served as a basis for a lecture and published essay entitled "Good People and Dirty Work." This subseries also contains material relating to a National Opinion Research Center study on American priests done in 1970-1971.
The note cards in subseries 3 were generated in his student days at the University of Chicago. In his memoranda entitled "On My Years in Graduate School at the University of Chicago, 29 January 1976," Hughes describes the system: note cards are in the "4 x 6" slips after the W. I. Thomas scheme. The manuscript being on white, bibliography being on blue and quotations being on orange colored slips.
There is a small group of translations by Hughes arranged alphabetically by author in subseries 4. Subseries 5, Book Reviews, is reviews written by Hughes. The reviews date from 1926 to 1979 and are arranged chronologically.
Subseries 6, Manuscripts, includes published and unpublished manuscripts, addresses, and magazine articles. These materials are arranged chronologically. Included with this subseries are some of the files generated by the project undertaken by Hughes, Winifred Raushenbush, and others to publish the papers of Robert Park. Hughes gave most of these files to the University of Chicago Library where they are now part of the Robert Park Papers in the Department of Special Collections.
Subseries 7, Publishing Correspondence, has been arranged chronologically and consists of reviews of his work, requests for reprints, publishing contracts, and correspondence regarding the publication of some of Hughes older titles such as the Chicago Real Estate Board and French Canada in Transition. Similar letters can be found in Series II.
Subseries 8, Publications, is made up of reprints and smaller books, one of them a private publication done here at the University of Chicago entitled Cases on Field Work co-authored by Everett C. Hughes, Buford H. Junker, Ray L. Gold, and Dorothy Kittel. These are arranged chronologically.
Series V, French Canada Studies, has been arranged into two subseries: (1) General, and (2) Study of the Careers and Career Aspirations of Young Canadians, 1965. The first subseries consists of notes, memoranda, papers by and about others in Canada, as well as collections of Canadian newspaper clippings from the early 1930s to the 1970s documenting topics such as French Canada during World War II. The arrangement of the files is chronological. These files were generated during the many visits to Canada Hughes made after he left in 1938 to teach at the University of Chicago. As can be seen from the material, Hughes closely watched the many manifestations of ethnic conflict between French and English speakers in Canada.
Subseries 2, "Study of the Careers and Career Aspirations of Young Canadians, Some of French and Some of Other Backgrounds," was a study initiated by Canada's Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism with the additional support of McGill University and the UniversitÈ de Montreal. Hughes carried out his study in 1965. Students from both universities were recruited to assist in the field. The subseries has been subdivided into: administration and research data. The administrative material consists of correspondence with both administrators of the project and researchers. Project proposals, reports, studies of a similar nature, and memoranda by Hughes and the research team are in this group. The final report to the Commission, " Career Patterns of Young Montrealers in Certain White-Collar Occupations," was never published. This research data subseries contains the interviews done in the field by the project. They include interviews with individuals working in various professions carried out in 1965. They are arranged by profession or by corporation that defined profession such as Bell Telephone.
The Kansas City and University of Chicago connection was already established through the Kansas City Study of Adult Life. This work was done under the direction of Robert J. Havighurst and the University of Chicago's Committee on Human Development. It was supported by the Carnegie Corporation and Community Studies, Inc., a research body financed by several local trusts of Kansas City. Everett Hughes had become affiliated with the Committee on Human Development in the 1950s and he began talking to Dr. Dimond of the University of Kansas Medical School about a study of specialization in medical schools in 1952. The pilot study was underway by the fall of 1955 and was conducted by Howard S. Becker. Most of this team, Becker, Geer, and Hughes, moved directly into another study of undergraduates at the University of Kansas, and the final publication for this study was Making the Grade, 1968. Because the completion of one study was taking place while the other study was getting underway, and because the records of the two studies were inter-filed, it seemed appropriate to keep these groups together.
Subseries VI has been divided into four subseries: (1) Administration, (2) Articles and Publications, (3) Research Data, and (4) Related Studies. All these subseries are arranged chronologically. Hughes supervised these studies for the most part long distance from both the University of Chicago and Brandeis University, so there is a wealth of reports and memoranda that fall into the category of correspondence. The correspondence with Community Studies Inc., which holds correspondence with both Howard S. Becker and Blanche Geer. Hughes did conduct interviews and manage the projects on site during some parts of 1959 and 1961. The rest of the field work on record in this collection was done by Howard S. Becker, Blanche Geer, Marsh Ray, and Rue Bucher.
Helen MacGill graduated with a double degree in Economics and German from the University of British Columbia. On hearing a lecture by Winifred Raushenbush on Chinatown in Vancouver and then speaking with Robert Park, who persuaded her to come to the University of Chicago and study sociology under a Laura Spelman Rockefeller Fellowship, Ms. MacGill came to the University in 1925. Here she met and married Everett Hughes in 1927. Helen was able to complete her Ph.D. in 1937 under the direction of Robert Park. The next year Helen and Everett came back to the University of Chicago when Everett received an assistant professorship.
World War II soon began and with the shortage of the usual male graduate students to fill the position of editorial assistant at the American Journal of Sociology, Herbert Blumer offered Helen Hughes the job. She worked as an editor for the American Journal of Sociology for 17 years from 1944 until 1961, when she and Everett moved to Boston for Everett to take a post at Brandeis University in 1961.
The only substantive files of her work are from her editorship of a study, The Status of Women in Sociology, 1968-1972: Report to the American Sociological Association of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Status of Women in the Profession.
Please refer to the Audio-Visual series to find a microfilmed manuscript of The Fantastic Lodge: The Autobiography of a Girl Addict. This monograph was published in 1961. Helen MacGill edited this work and Howard S. Becker made the recordings on which the text is based.
Series VIII contains reel-to-reel and cassette tapes that consist of lectures, dictated letters, and memoranda. The single roll of microfilm was made in 1960 by Helen MacGill Hughes of the manuscript prepared for Fantastic Lodge: The Autobiography of a Girl Drug Addict (1961). Hughes dictated many of his letters and memoranda on to dictadisks for transcription by a secretary. The dictadisk subseries is divided into dictadisks without transcripts and dictadisks with transcripts. The arrangement of these sub subseries mirrors the organization of the entire collection.
The reel-to-reel and cassette tapes as well as the microfilm in this series are restricted due to their fragile condition or need for special equipment.
Arranged alphabetically, this series consists of recommendations for students and colleagues, a few grant proposal evaluations, and a few referee reports for papers in the field of sociology. Series IX is restricted and unavailable for research until 2030.
The collection includes one unbound album of photographs and a social invitation.
The photograph album contains 40 mounted photographs of the Edward Morris House and its grounds. The photographs depict both the interior and exterior of the house from a variety of angles and distances. Interior photographs of the home include depictions of the billiard room, the foyer, and several fireplaces. There are interior and exterior photographs of the greenhouse, and an exterior photograph of the garage. Photographs of the grounds and landscape include varying levels of detail.
The photographs are labeled to indicate the name of the subject and, for those depicting the exterior of the house, which façade of the structure is shown.
The invitation invites Edward Morris, Jr., a son of Edward and Helen Morris, to attend dinner at the Royal Canadian Yacht Club, Toronto. The invitation indicates that the Prince of Wales will be in attendance at the dinner.
The Albert Einstein Collection includes correspondence and manuscripts written and received by Einstein.
The largest portion of the collection is Einstein’s correspondence with Charles Wegener, a philosopher at the University of Chicago, regarding the translation and publication of the article “Physics and Reality.” Included with the letters are two drafts of the article with corrections made by Einstein before its publication.
Also included is a card signed by Einstein in May 1921, perhaps during his visit to the University of Chicago that month. The collection also features a 1946 letter sent by Einstein as Chairman of the Emergency Committee for Atomic Scientists, founded by Einstein and Leo Szilard to warn the public of the dangers associated with the development of nuclear weaponry. The letter is addressed to Mr. and Mrs. John Paul Welling in Chicago and discusses the absence of the Wellings from a conference at Princeton. The letter is typed on stationery of the Emergency Committee of Atomic Scientists and signed by Einstein.
The collection was previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
The Alfred E. Emerson Papers consist of seven linear feet and cover the period 1917-1976. The collection has been arranged into six series: Personal; Correspondence; Committees, Foundations, and Grants; Original Manuscripts by AEE; Published Articles and Reprints by AEE; Published Articles and Reprints by Others.
Series I contains of an assortment of personal items such as address books, calendars, lecture notes, and family photographs. It also includes a lengthy bibliography of Emerson's work and memorials and obituaries at his death in 1976. Series II contains correspondence from 1930-1976. There are incoming and outgoing letters, including a considerable number to his sister, Gertrude Emerson and her husband, Boshi Sen, who lived in India. A small group of letters of his father, Alfred E. Emerson, Sr., and letters written during Emerson's numerous trips around the world are included.
The third series contains a few files of material related to committees and foundations of which Emerson was a member. Among these are the files on a National Science Foundation grant Emerson received from 1965-1971 for the study of termites. Series IV and Series V contain works written by Alfred E. Emerson. The former includes original manuscripts and the latter, published articles and reprints. Series VI includes articles and reprints by other scholars and scientists.
Series I, Personal, contains memorials and obituaries of Alfred E. Emerson from 1976 and a bibliography of his works from 1917 to 1976. The series contains miscellaneous newspaper and magazine articles, address books, calendars and notebooks as well as a container of index cards containing addresses. This series also includes a small group of lecture notes, some dated as early as 1930 but most undated, and several family photographs.
Series II contains correspondence from 1930 to 1976. The arrangement imposed by Alfred Emerson has been preserved. The correspondence has been grouped, first, by Incoming and Outgoing letters of Alfred E. Emerson. These letters range from 1961 to 1976 with a considerable about of material to and from his sister, Gertrude (Mrs. Boshi Sen), who was living in India. The next group of correspondence includes the letters of his father, Alfred E. Emerson, Sr. The letters range from 1930 until his death in 1942. The correspondence to follow includes family and financial letters as well as those written during trips Emerson took "around the world" in 1960 and 1962-1963 and during a trip to Japan in 1964.
Series III contains newsletters, brochures, and correspondence for several foundations and committees of which Alfred E. Emerson was a member. The Atlantica Foundation maintained and supported scientific and educational institutions including the Atlantica Ecological Research Station in Southern Rhodesia. Emerson was a member of the Belgian American Educational Foundation, an organization that supported technical schools, libraries, individuals, and scientific research. Emerson was also involved with the Committee on Systematics, Evolution, and Environmental Biology at Cornell University. Series III also contains scattered correspondence and articles from 1965 regarding the history of the Society for the Study of Evolution. In addition to papers showing foundation and committee involvement, this series includes a National Science Foundation grant (1965-1971) entitled Taxonomy, Geographical Distribution, Ecology, Social Behavior, and Evolution of Termites.
Series IV contains articles written by Alfred E. Emerson. These items are the original manuscripts and have been arranged alphabetically by the title of the article. This series also contains a small amount of correspondence regarding Emerson's writings.
Series V contains published articles and reprints of material written by Alfred E. Emerson. This material has been arranged chronologically according to the date the article was published.
Series VI contains articles that were written by others. These articles have been arranged chronologically according to the date they were published.
The Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc., Board of Editors Records consists of minutes from its meetings covering the years 1949 to 1959. Also included in this collection are newspaper clippings, magazines, typescripts, and memoranda concerning the Encyclopaedia Britannica through 1968.
The Carl Sandburg and Ruth Falkenau Correspondence contain seven letters from Sandburg to Falkenau and three typescripts, including a poem, “These Valleys Seem Old,” a short story, “How a Railroad Train and a Skyscraper Came Back,” and a brief text that begins “Lincoln was fifty-one years old.” The collection also includes an announcement of Sandburg’s lecture-recital readings from his books, “Chicago Poems,” “Corn Huskers,” and “Smoke and Steel.”
This collection consists of a scrapbook compiled by Ella Tilles while an undergraduate at the University of Chicago. Much of the material was stuffed loosely into the scrapbook and has been foldered separately. Because very little of it can be dated precisely, the contents have been grouped and arranged alphabetically (i.e., “Bridge Tally Cards,” “Blackfriars Program,” “Poems,” etc.). The collection includes personal items, such as photographs, notes, and drawings from friends, as well as mementos such as dance cards, ticket stubs, and event programs. Among the more charming items in the collection are a number of small party place cards and other party decorations (including an articulated paperboard skeleton), and a folder of Valentine cards.
The scrapbook itself is listed first in the inventory, followed by the loose items.
The Fallers, Lloyd A. Papers cover the years 1937 to 1977 and are arranged into eleven series. They include: Series I, Biographical Materials, Series II, Correspondence, Series III, Course Materials, Series IV, Manuscripts by Fallers, Series V, Manuscripts by Others, Series VI, Africa Research Materials, Series VII, Turkey Research Materials, Series VIII, International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences, Series IX, Margaret Chave Fallers Papers, Series X, Microfilms and Series XI, Letters of Reference.
The collection includes personal and professional correspondence, field notes and research materials, course materials, and manuscripts concerning other professional associations and projects in which he was engaged. Some of the correspondence includes Peter Benedict, Clifford Geertz, Marion Levy, Morris Janowitz, Michael Meeker, Audrey Richards and Aidan Southall as well as administrative correspondence concerning the Department of Anthropology, the Committee for the Comparative Study of New Nations, and the Committee for African Studies with which Fallers was involved.
The collection also contains materials generated by Fallers while pursuing research into colonialism and independence in East Africa, modernization in Turkey, and more general topics of social stratification and status. A substantial amount of information on Fallers' research for the East Africa Institute of Social Research can be found in Series VI. The collection includes editorial correspondence and manuscripts from when Fallers served as Associate Editor for Anthropology for the Institute Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences. It also contains field materials collected by Margaret Chave Fallers.
Series 1, Biographical Materials (Box 1), contains Lloyd A. Fallers' curriculum vitae, a diary, awards he received, an appointment calendar, a number of his reprints, and administrative materials concerning his appointments at the University of California, Berkeley, from 1957 to 1960.
Series II, Correspondence (Boxes 1 to 17), has been arranged alphabetically and consists of Fallers' professional and personal correspondence between the years 1955 and 1974. Included in this series is substantial correspondence with Peter Benedict, Clifford Geertz, Marion Levy, Morris and Gayle Janowitz, Michael Meeker, Audrey Richards, and Aidan Southall, Fallers' successor as Director of the East African Institute of Social Research. The Fallers Papers do not include correspondence covering the years when Fallers was in Africa except where some pieces of correspondence are included in Series VI, African Research Materials. Series II also contains Fallers' administrative correspondence and papers concerning the Department of Anthropology, Committee for the Comparative Study of New Nations, and Committee for African Studies at the University of Chicago.
Series III, Course Materials (Boxes 18 to 22), is organized chronologically into subseries following the sequence of Fallers' institutional affiliations and, within each subseries, alphabetically according to subject and course number. Included are papers and notes which Fallers wrote while a student at the University of Chicago (1945-1949), and his lecture notes and syllabi for the courses that he taught at Princeton University (1953-1954), at the University of California, Berkeley (1957-1960), and at the University of Chicago (1960-1974).
Series IV, (Boxes 22 to 24), contains Fallers' unpublished general manuscripts and lectures arranged alphabetically by title. This series includes his A.M. thesis (1949) and contains a number of lectures in which he examines the relationship of academe to the Christian church.
Series V, (Boxes 24 to 27), contains Fallers' collection of manuscripts by other scholars. The material is arranged alphabetically or, if part of a seminar or conference, grouped together under the name of the sponsoring institution. A number of manuscripts by Clifford Geertz are particularly worthy of note.
Series VI, Africa Research Materials (Boxes 27-44), is divided into seven subseries. The General subseries is composed of correspondence and manuscripts generated by Fallers' participation in the Ford Foundation's Review of African Studies Programs in the United States, the Peace Corps' African Lawyers' Program, and the Washington Center of Foreign Policy Research's Task Force on Africa. Subseries 2, Basutoland, contains material concerning Fallers' participation in the Ford Foundation's Commission on Land Tenure for the government of Basutoland (Lesotho) in 1962-1963.
The main body of this series is composed of material that Fallers collected during his years at the East African Institute of Social Research. Four subseries concern the Buganda. The first folder in Subseries 3, Buganda--General Files, containing correspondence with Mrs. Fallers, will help to orient the researcher to Fallers' Buganda material, especially in relationship to Subseries 5, Buganda--Note Cards and Subseries 6, Buganda--Maps. Subseries 3, Buganda--General Files, contains a number of noteworthy manuscripts by African authors. Subseries 4, Buganda--Leadership Study Files, contains research material (1954-1957) and is composed of field notes, genealogical material, and surveys. Finally, Subseries 7, Busoga, contains Fallers' dissertation proposal, field work report, field notes (1950-1952), and his extensive notes on government administrative documents and records of African Local Government courts in Busoga District.
Series VII, (Boxes 44 to 46), contains Fallers research materials gathered during three periods of field research in Turkey. He completed field work in Konya during 1964 and then conducted research at Edremit in 1968-1969. This series contains Fallers' correspondence from the field in 1964, manuscripts based on his research, and manuscripts written by other social scientists. The only field research material in this series is an undated notebook containing three pages of notes.
Series VIII, (Boxes 47 to 50), contains information from when Fallers was the Associate Editor for Anthropology for the International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences. This series includes editorial correspondence (1962-1969) and a collection of the manuscripts that were solicited for inclusion in the encyclopedia.
Series IX, Margaret Chave Fallers Papers, Boxes 50 to 53, contains field notes by Mrs. Fallers (then Margaret Elinor Chave) taken during the summer of 1947 on Majuro, an atoll in the southern Marshall Islands, and a subseries containing general material associated with this project. Her study was carried out under the combined auspices of the University of Hawaii and the Pacific Science Board's Coordinated Investigation of Micronesian Anthropology. This research formed the basis for her A.M. thesis, "The Changing Position of the Mixed-Bloods in the Marshall Islands" which was submitted to the Department of Anthropology, University of Chicago in 1948. The Miscellaneous subseries is composed of manuscripts based both on Mrs. Fallers' research in Africa and on her experience as principal of the high school at the Laboratory Schools (1968-1971).
Series X, Microfilms (Box 54), contains information concerning Fallers' work in Africa and of particular note is the collection and translations of Luganda texts. The microfilm contained in the series is restricted due to the need for special equipment.
Series XI, (Box 55 and 56), contains confidential letters of reference written for students and colleagues. The information contained in this series is restricted and unavailable for research until the year 2024.
The Shirley Farr Papers consist of a letter from Daisy E. Wood to the residents of Beecher Hall at the University of Chicago (1904); copy of The College Girls' Record, annotated by Farr; and photographs.
The Eggan, Fred. Papers consist of professional and personal materials ranging in date from the 1920s to the 1990s. The collection has been arranged into eleven series. The majority of the collection documents Eggan's career as an anthropologist from his years as a graduate student in the 1920s and 1930s until his retirement from the Department of Anthropolgy at the University of Chicago in 1974. The papers provide materials from nearly all phases and aspects of Eggan's academic life. The physical and conceptual core of the collection is Eggan's ethnographic research as consolidated in his Native American and Philippine studies files.
The collection contains numerous types of material including original drafts and manuscripts, reprints, research and lecture notes, course and seminar work, correspondence, and field notes, as well as published and unpublished papers and articles by other scholars. Also present are non-print materials such as photographs, microfilm, sound and video recordings. A restricted series of letters of recommendation written by Eggan on behalf of others has been placed at the end of the collection. Authorship of papers, presentations, and lectures should be attributed to Eggan unless otherwise noted. All course numbers and titles refer to University of Chicago course offerings, and Eggan is assumed to be the course instructor unless other indication is provided.
The arrangement and structural composition of the papers attempt to follow, as nearly as possible, Eggan's own organizational strategies. These strategies tend to be subject or content based. The ethnographic series reflect a geographic ordering of societies which share certain environmental and cultural traits.
The arrangement of each series or subseries moves from the general to the specific within a given subject area. Correspondence, notes, and bibliographies are usually found at the beginning of the series. These are followed by manuscripts and drafts of Eggan's written work, and lectures, as well as course and seminar materials. These are succeeded by material pertaining to other authors, institutions, and related subject areas. Miscellaneous items such as clippings and reprint sets are found at the end of each series.
Series XII is addendum to the main body of the Eggan Papers. The series includes personal and professional materials ranging Eggan’s early academic life in the 1920’s until his death in 1991. It has been divided into 9 subseries. Subseries I contains personal and posthumous materials including memorabilia, calendars, notes and newspaper clippings, and condolence letters and newspaper clippings of Eggan’s obituary. Subseries II contains materials pertaining to Eggan’s activities as an educator, his association with a range of professional institutions and associations, and his role in many anthropological projects during his late career. Subseries III: Correspondence includes both personal and professional correspondence. Notable correspondents include E.E. Evans-Pritchard, Meyer Fortes, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Triloki Pandey and Charles Briggs. Subseries IV incorporates a chronologically organized catalogue of Fred Eggan’s published writings, with some additional drafts and proofs. Subseries V: General Files contains reprinted articles, papers and other writings, some annotated by Eggan. The subseries is arranged alphabetically by author’s last name, or in the case of an unlisted author, by title. Subseries VI: Dorothy Eggan Hopi Dream Research incorporates chronologically-ordered original and photocopied transcriptions of Hopi dreams collected by Dorothy Eggan between 1940 and 1957, and a paper based on her research. Subseries VII: Degrees, Awards and Honors contains the degrees, awards and honors achieved by Fred Eggan during his long career. It incorporates oversize certificates as well as artifacts. Subseries VIII: Photographs, Slides and Negatives incorporates photographic media pertaining primarily to Fred Eggan’s research in the Philippines. It includes oversize photographic prints taken by Eggan and others, including notable Filipino photographer Eduardo Masferré. It also contains glass lantern slides and emulsion negatives that may derive from Fay-Cooper Cole’s research in the Philippines and Indonesia. Subseries IX: Restricted includes personnel and financial materials that are restricted for fifty years.
This series holds items ranging in date from 1918 to 1990, and is divided into three subseries. Subseries 1: Personal Papers, contains notes on the Eggan family history, autobiographical notes, curricula vitae, appointment calendars, and transcripts of interviews and reminiscences. No family correspondence is included in this subseries. Subseries 2: Appointments, Awards, and Lectureships, preserves correspondence, certificates, speech and lecture notes, photographs, notices and newspaper clippings relating to fellowships, awards, and honors received by Eggan. Subseries 3: Assessments and Critiques of Eggan's work, provides critical essays and commentaries on Eggan's work by a number of students and colleagues, including Ernest L. Schusky, Raymond D. Fogelson, and Mario Zamora.
This single series is arranged alphabetically by correspondent name. It combines much of Eggan's personal and professional correspondence, dated 1925-1991. Within the personal correspondence, once again there is a gap with respect to family correspondence. Eggan's professional correspondence documents his dialogue with many contemporary social scientists including Ruth Benedict, E. E. Evans-Pritchard, Raymond Firth, Meyer Fortes, Max Gluckman, Alfred L. Kroeber, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Sol Tax, and Leslie White. Significant portions of correspondence are also found in appropriate subject areas throughout the collection. In addition to correspondence with students and colleagues, much of Eggan's administrative work for various institutions and professional organizations, including the University of Chicago, is represented in the series. This material appears within the alphabetical sequence according to institution or organization name.
This series has been divided into five subseries and contains items spanning the years 1895 to 1990. As a whole, this series focuses on particular individuals and their roles in the development of anthropology.
Subseries 1: General Files, is a collection of correspondence, biographical and autobiographical manuscripts and reprints, bibliographies, memorabilia, media clippings, and obituaries. Most of the individuals represented were personally associated with Eggan as friends, colleagues, students, and teachers. Eggan himself wrote or edited many of the biographies, memoirs, and obituaries and festschriften present in this and the following subseries.
The next four subseries highlight four key figures whose contributions to Eggan's thought and work were significant. Two of these figures, Lewis Henry Morgan (Subseries 2) and H. R. Voth (Subseries 5), were forerunners in the field whose anthropological concerns dovetailed with Eggan's. Morgan made early contributions to the study of Native American kinship and social organization, while Voth provided one of the earliest and most controversial ethnographic accounts of the Hopi. Eggan produced several important articles on Morgan's life and work, including texts for the 1964 Lewis Henry Morgan lectures at Rochester University and the 1977 Smithsonian Institution centennial of Morgan's classic Ancient Society.
Subseries 5: The H. R. Voth Collection, contains approximately 739 photographs of daily and ceremonial Hopi life reprinted from Voth's original 1895 negatives as well as a descriptive catalogue of the prints. By 1964 the original nitrate negatives, housed at Bethel College (North Newton, Kansas), had so severely deteriorated that the Arizona State Museum had five sets of prints reproduced. These sets were distributed to the Museum of Northern Arizona, the Arizona Historical Foundation, the Arizona State Museum, the Bethel College Archives, and Fred Eggan at the University of Chicago. Note: To reproduce any of the images in Subseries 5, permission must be granted by Bethel College, holders of the original negatives.
Subseries 3 and 4 represent A. R. Radcliffe-Brown and Edward Sapir. They are noteworthy, not only for their theoretical contributions to the discipline, but for the formative roles they played in Eggan's life as teachers and mentors. Among the Radcliffe-Brown materials are detailed class notes taken by Eggan which document the courses taught by Radcliffe-Brown during his tenure at the University of Chicago.
Spanning the years 1924 to 1993, this series is comprised of six subseries: General; Historical Perspectives; Cultural and Ethnological Theory; Research Methodologies; Social Organization; and Development and Change. Throughout these subseries similar types of material predominate, namely manuscripts and reprints of articles by both Eggan and others, course outlines, syllabi, reading lists and notes, bibliographies, lecture and reading notes, correspondence, and conference programs, notes and transcripts.
This series reflects aspects of Eggan's theoretical and methodological interests. The most prominent sections of the series concern social organization and cultural and ethnological theory. Eggan's on-going interests in research methodologies, development, and social change are also well-represented.
Significant within this and the following ethnographic series is the concentration of course work and seminar material represented. These materials include not only those courses taught by Eggan, but likewise certain courses taught by other Chicago anthropologists such as Fay-Cooper Cole, Leslie Spiers, Robert Redfield and Milton Singer.
This series has been divided into nine subseries; three of which contain further subdivisions. While Eggan's primary ethnographic interests focused on the Philippines and native North America, Eggan collected an extensive amount of material on other parts and peoples of the world. These secondary interests are represented in subseries on Africa, Asia, Australia and Oceania, Europe, Meso- and South America. The materials in these subseries are course syllabi, notes, and outlines, bibliographies, lecture and research notes, manuscripts and reprints, student papers, project proposals, and dissertations, correspondence, pamphlets, abstracts, and maps and charts. These materials range in date from 1913 to 1978, with the bulk of the series originating from the 1930s, 40s, and 50s.
Subseries 5: Europe, contains Robert Pehrson Research Materials. Pehrson was a doctoral student under Eggan and received his Ph.D. in Anthropology from the University of Chicago. His dissertation concerned the social organization of the Lapps or Saami of northern Scandinavia. After Pehrson's death in 1955, many of his papers, especially his Lappish, northern European, and northern Asian materials, were transferred to Eggan.
This series consists of field notes, reading notes, lecture notes, bibliographies, manuscripts, student papers, research proposals, reprints, abstracts, reviews, pamphlets, media clippings, correspondence, and maps and charts. The materials date from 1922-1990 and have been divided by geographical region into 15 subseries.
The structure of the North American Indian Files reflect Eggan's use of the culture area concept to organize his ethnographic materials. Each section begins, where available, with material pertaining to a given culture area. Linguistic groups are next, followed by groups with named cultural or tribal identities. These groups are ordered alphabetically. "Marginal" groups whose ethnic and cultural affinities are debated are placed within particular culture areas according to Eggan's classificatory decisions.
Various field data collected by Eggan and other researchers appear throughout the series. Eggan's field notes on the Choctaw are found in Subseries 6: Southeast, his Cheyenne and Arapaho notes in Subseries 7: Plains, and his Hopi field notes are located in Subseries 13: Pueblos.
Also present in this series are materials pertaining to research projects and court cases in which Eggan was involved or in which he took a special interest. The Foodways Project found in Subseries 12: Southwest, was originally conceived as a pan-American study of native food use, nutrition, and diet from both physio-medical and socio-cultural viewpoints. The Solstice Project, also contained in Subseries 12, concerned on-going archaeological research into the astronomical patterning of the architecture of Chaco Canyon Culture. Eggan played no direct role in the project. Nevertheless, he showed an acute interest in its findings, especially in the years following his retirement, collecting correspondence, manuscripts, reprints, abstracts, and memoranda on the subject until the year of his death.
The Hopi-Navajo land dispute documents, Subseries 14, record the long running territorial battles between the two groups. Eggan served on the American Anthropological Association panel which investigated these disputes. He testified in several court cases on behalf of the Hopi. Similarly, Eggan testified for Zuni plaintiffs in their land claims case against the federal government. (see Subseries 15).
This series spans the years 1904 to 1986, and contains field notes, correspondence, manuscripts, student papers, dissertations, research proposals, bibliographies, whole Philippine newspapers, and other media clippings, reports, travel diaries, and photographs. The files are arranged into 13 subseries with general topics such as linguistics, politics, social science research, and also by named cultural identity or tribe. The nucleus of the series is a large amount of field data collected by Eggan and many others concerning peoples of the northern Philippines. Specifically, these field data include maps, climate and language charts, kinship diagrams and genealogies, myth, folktale, and song texts, grammars, and descriptions of rituals. Many of Fay-Cooper Cole's original field notes from 1907-1908 are preserved here as well. Eggan established long-term connections with colleagues and informants in the Philippines who supplied him with ethnographic information in a variety of forms--correspondence, field notes, manuscripts, and diaries. Among the Ilongot materials is a considerable body of ethnographic and linguistic data originally compiled by ethnologist William Jones in 1908-1909. Eggan's own field notes concerning the northern Philippines are located in the sections on Bontoc, Nabaloi, Tinguian, Town Field Notes and Photographs, and Sagada. The final section of the Philippines Files series contains the findings of the American Anthropological Associations' special panel on the "Tasaday Controversy" chaired by Eggan in 1989. The controversy involved debate concerning the extent to which the Tasaday had lived in isolation and technological primitiveness prior to their "discovery" by Westerners in 1971. Series VII: Philippines Files
The material contained in Series VIII is currently restricted due to its physical condition or need for special equipment. The Sound Recordings series include both reel-to-reel tapes and cassettes. The content of the tapes is diverse, including interviews, talks, and addresses, ranging from 1933 (dubbed in 1957) to 1971. Most notable among them are six reels of stories and performances by Alfred Pacyaya spoken in the Sagada dialect of northern Kankanay. The cassettes are chiefly concerned with the 1989 American Anthropological Association session on the Tasaday, and the advanced seminar on "The Hopi Indians" held at the School of American Research in 1982. A folder containing correspondence related to the sound recordings appears at the beginning of the series.
The material contained in Series IX is currently restricted due to its physical condition or need for special equipment.
The microfilm in this series represents a variety of materials including manuscripts, reprints, seminar notes, maps, and charts. Of interest are microfilm copies of class notes and bibliographies from anthropology courses taught in the early 1940s by University of Chicago notables such as Fay-Cooper Cole, Robert Redfield, and W. Lloyd Warner. Also present is a substantial collection documenting portions of Hopi Agency correspondence from 1899 to 1917.
The Photographs series does not contain all photographs in the collection. Other photographs and visual images appear on occasion throughout the collection. The images in this series have been grouped according to content. Thus, the subseries on the American Southwest and Southeast Asia concern images of potential ethnographic value, while the Subseries Personal contains images of family, friends, home, and pleasure travel. There is some degree of overlap among the personal and ethnographic sections. Some images of Eggan's early fieldwork among groups of Choctaw, Cheyenne, and Wichita are located in Subseries 1: General. Types of visual materials contained in Series X include prints, negatives, mounted slides, contact strips, one glass slide, one reel of film and oversized contact sheets. The reel of film, located in Subseries 1, is restricted due to its physical condition or need for special equipment.
The material contained in Series XI is restricted and will not be open to researchers until the year 2041.
The bulk of the collection consists of sixteen notebooks of astronomical observations and calculations in Berlin and at Yerkes Observatory and Dearborn Observatory, complied by Fox. The collection also contains a photocopy of the text of a speech that Fox prepared for the 1933 Arcturus ceremony at the Yerkes observatory, as well as a cassette tape of the actual ceremony. Also included are modern prints of three photographs: one of the observatory taken between 1903 and 1909, a Yerkes postcard sent to Philip and his family in 1928, and a photo of Philip with his father, Simeon M. Fox, on the Yerkes grounds in 1907.
This collection contains drafts, typescripts, manuscripts, and translations from the poet, Carlos de Francisco Zea.
Series I: Libros de Poesía. This series contains drafts and typescripts related to Francisco Zea’s only published book, Libros de Poesía (Barcelona: Los Libros de la Frontera, 1989). The book is divided into three suites of poems, which form the subseries of the first series in the collection. The fourth subseries contains materials related to the publication of the work. The papers were arranged by the poet and have not been altered. The poems were written from 1957 to 1987, and materials in this series span the years 1959-1990
Series II: Other Writings. This series contains manuscripts, typescripts, and translations related to the poet’s various projects. Each project makes up the four subseries in this series. Materials in this series span the years 1959-1990.
The Henry G. Gale Papers have been divided into four series: Series I: Personal Materials, Series II: Correspondence, Series III: Manuscripts and Reprints, and Series IV: Visual and Oversize Materials.
The concentration of material is from the years 1900 to 1929, constituting an incomplete record of Gale's career. Series I documents Gale's service in the Army during World War I, and also contains material related to the terms of his employment at University of Chicago. Series II contains Gale's correspondence, concentrated in 1928 to 1929. Agnes Gale's correspondence, most often from her husband and her family, is concentrated in the years 1900 to 1906. Series III contains notes from Gale's graduate study, a large amount of undated notes and manuscripts, and reprints of his articles published between 1910 to 1937, most often in the Astrophysical Journal. Series IV contains photographs, many of which are unidentified, and oversize material from Series I-III.
This series contains personal and biographical materials of Henry G. Gale, and a small number of items belonging to his wife, Agnes Spofford Cook Gale. Included in this series is material related to Gale's Army service during World War I, a reprint of a biographical article appearing in Astrophysical Journal after Gale's death, publications of professional organizations to which Gale belonged, and newspaper and magazine clippings pertaining to Gale's work. Papers of Agnes Gale include unrelated periodical clippings, notes, and a small letter opener. Photographs and oversize materials, including Army service documents and newspaper clippings, are found in Series IV: Visual and Oversize Materials.
This series contains correspondence of Henry Gordon Gale and his wife, Agnes Spofford Cook Gale. Subseries 1, spanning the years 1895-1941, contains general correspondence of Henry Gale. This subseries includes material of both a professional and personal nature. Almost half of the correspondence dates from 1928-1929, while the remainder represents scattered points in his career. Subseries 2, spanning the years 1889-1948, contains personal correspondence written to Agnes Gale by Henry Gale, friends and members of the Cook family. This subseries also includes a small amount of correspondence pertaining to Agnes Gale's literary publications. Correspondence from Henry Gale often uses the nicknames "Bitty Wa" or "Wa Wa" for Agnes Gale, "Buck Wa" for himself, and "Bims" for their daughter, Beatrice. Each subseries is arranged chronologically, then alphabetically by name of correspondent. Oversize materials from this series are found in Series IV: Visual and Oversize Materials, Box 15.
Spanning the years 1896-1941, this series contains Gale's notes from lectures, reading, and research; manuscripts composed by Gale and others; and reprints of his publications, which were often produced in collaboration with one or more colleagues. Notes and notebooks generally pertain to Gale's graduate work at University of Chicago; a large amount of this material is undated. Typewritten manuscript material is also undated. Reprints are of articles appearing in scientific journals, most often the Astrophysical Journal. Materials from this series have been arranged into three subseries: Notes, Manuscripts, and Reprints. Each subseries has been organized chronologically.
This series contains photographs of organizations to which Gale belonged, and several individual portraits, many of which are unidentified. Also included in this series are periodical clippings and a WWI-era map of Northern France. Oversize materials from Series I-III are found in Box 15 of this series.
The Charles Whitney Gilkey papers contain correspondence primarily concerning the University Chapel, and the Committee on the Presidency of the University (1928-1929). The collection also contains the minutes of the Commission for the Study of Moral and Religious Influence and Agencies in Higher Education, as well as several published articles by Gilkey.
The Langdon Gilkey Papers are organized into six series: Series I: Personal; Series II: Correspondence; Series III: Teaching; Series IV: Writings and Research; Series V: Audio-Visual; and Series VI: Restricted. The collection contains official and personal correspondence, notes, manuscripts and typescripts, newspaper clippings, postcards, periodicals and other publications, photographs, and administrative documents dating between 1934 and 2004. The bulk of the material dates between 1940-1945 and 1954-2004. The papers primarily document Langdon Gilkey’s life in China during the Second World War and his professional career as theologian, academician, and professor at the Divinity School of the University of Chicago and other institutions.
Series I, Personal, contains materials primarily related to Gilkey’s pre-professional life and personal activities. Highlights of the series are materials documenting Langdon Gilkey’s activities in Japanese-occupied China during the Second World War from 1940-1945. These materials include letters between Gilkey and his family. Many of them show the difficult modes of communication between Allied-controlled and occupied territories during the Second World War; after Pearl Harbor, Gilkey had to rely on middlepersons or the Red Cross to contact his family. Also notable are records of the kitchen of the Weihsien Internment Camp (1943-1945); the Japanese let the civilian internees govern the Camp by themselves, and from 1943 to 1945 Gilkey worked as a manager of the Camp’s kitchen. Also included are pamphlets, maps, and other materials related to Yenching University (now part of Peking University). This series also includes some of Charles Gilkey’s papers.
Series II, Correspondence, contains Gilkey’s letters from and to his professional colleagues, including his past students, and other academic institutions. Due to their evaluative nature, letters of recommendation are included in Series VI, restricted. Gilkey’s personal correspondence from China is included in Series I, Personal.
Series III, Teaching, contains Gilkey’s lecture notes, syllabi, and other materials related to his teaching at Union Theological Seminary, Vassar College, Vanderbilt University, the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, the University of Virginia, and Georgetown University. It also contains materials documenting Gilkey’s teaching at Japan (1975) and Hong Kong (2001-2002).
Series IV, Writings and Research, constitutes the bulk of the collection. It mainly consists of Gilkey’s writings in a variety of formats: notes, conference presentations, articles, talks, speeches, sermons, and court testimonials. It also includes his collection of academic essays, articles, and periodicals, as well as the travel documents, pamphlets, and correspondence specifically related to the academic events he attended. Highlights of this series are drafts of Gilkey’s publications and different versions of his articles or conference presentations.
Series V, Audio-Visual, consists of portraits of Gilkey and a few unidentified photographs, which could be family pictures.
Series VI: Restricted, contains Gilkey’s evaluated work from college and graduate school, and student grades, letters of recommendation, and other evaluative materials from his teaching. Materials are restricted for eighty years after the date of record creation.
This series mainly documents Gilkey’s pre-Professional life and personal activities. It also includes Charles Gilkey’s correspondence in relation to Langdon Gilkey’s activities in China, as well as Charles Gilkey’s papers. Materials are ordered chronologically.
This series mainly contains Gilkey’s correspondence with professional colleagues and academic institutions. Materials are ordered according to the last names of the correspondents.
This series contains Gilkey’s lecture notes, syllabi, and other materials related to his teaching. Materials are grouped according to the related courses and institutions and are ordered chronologically.
This series mainly consists of Gilkey’s academic writings and other documents related to his professional activities. Materials in this series are ordered chronologically.
This series consists of student grades, recommendations, and other evaluative records, as well as college and graduate school papers of Gilkey himself. Folders dedicated to particular students are ordered alphabetically and other folders chronologically. Materials are restricted for eighty years after the date of record creation.
The Harold F. Gosnell Papers are organized into nine series:
Series I: Personal and Biographical, contains artwork, address books, clippings, finances, memorabilia, and photos. It includes a draft of Gosnell's autobiography. Material spans 1886-1972 and is organized by subject.
Series II: Correspondence, contains Gosnell's professional, family, and personal correspondence. It is organized alphabetically and spans 1919-1997.
Series III: Academic Administration and Teaching, contains administrative reports, examinations, lectures, student work, and syllabi from Gosnell's time at the University of Chicago (1926-1941), American University (1946-1962), and Howard University (1962-1970). Graded student work and letters of recommendation have been restricted transferred to Series IX. Oversized material has been transferred to Series VIII.
Series IV: Writings, contains books, articles, and reviews written by Gosnell and others. Material is organized by title and by author, and spans 1921-1977.
Series V: Government Work, contains interviews, memoranda, press releases, and reports from Gosnell's work at the Bureau of the Budget and the Department of State, 1941-1960. This series is organized by department.
Series VI: Professional Activities, contains newsletters and correspondence from organizations to which Gosnell belonged. It is arranged by name and spans 1951-1990.
Series VII: Research Files, contains charts, clippings, interviews, memorabilia, newsletters, notes, publications, polls, propaganda, and surveys related to Gosnell's research on public policy and political theory. Oversized material has been transferred to Series VIII. This series is organized by topic and spans the 1910s through the 1970s.
Series VIII: Oversized, contains books, clippings, graphs, electoral maps, and campaigns posters, primarily related to American and British elections. Material has been transferred from Series III and VII. It spans 1922-1940.
Series IX: Restricted, contains graded student work and letters of recommendation.
This series contains artwork, address books, clippings, finances, memorabilia, and photos. It includes a draft of Gosnell's autobiography. Material spans 1886-1972 and is organized by subject.
This series contains Gosnell's professional, family, and personal correspondence. It is divided into three subseries:
Subseries 1: Professional Correspondence, contains correspondence from publishers and academic colleagues. It is organized by name or topic and spans 1920-1987.
Subseries 2: Family Correspondence, contains correspondence between Gosnell and his family, primarily his mother, Sylvia Foote Gosnell, and his wife, Florence Fake Gosnell ("Bonnie"). It includes letters of condolence sent to Gosnell's son, David, on Gosnell's death in 1997. Of note is a Civil War letter from Gosnell's grandfather, Lemuel Foote, enclosed in Sylvia Gosnell's letter of 25 August 1935. It is organized alphabetically and spans 1919-1997.
Subseries 3: Personal Correspondence, contains incoming and outgoing correspondence between Gosnell and his friends and acquaintances. It is organized alphabetically and spans1919-1986.
This series contains administrative reports, examinations, lectures, student work, and syllabi. Graded student work and letters of recommendation have been transferred to Series IX. Series III is divided into two subseries:
Subseries 1: University of Chicago, 1926-1941 contains materials dating from Gosnell's time as a professor in the Political Science Department.
Subseries 2: Other Universities, 1946-1970, primarily contains materials dating from Gosnell's tenure at American University (1946-1962) and Howard University (1962-1970). Of note are the "political autobiographies" written by students for Gosnell's class on "Party Systems and Electoral Problems" at Howard University. This series includes syllabi from universities Gosnell was not affiliated with. Oversized material has been transferred to Series VIII.
This series contains books, articles, and reviews written by Gosnell and others. It is divided into three subseries:
Subseries I: Books, contains drafts, outlines, notes, research material, and correspondence for books by Gosnell. Material is organized by title and spans 1922-1983. American Parties and Elections and American Party Leaders and Followers appear to be early versions of Political Parties and the American Creed. There are two distinct drafts of Political Parties and the American Creed. Democracy Makes a Difference and Democracy: The Threshold of Freedom are also related drafts.
Subseries 2: Articles and Other Writings, contains articles and book reviews by Gosnell. These consist of both drafts and offprints, and in some cases related correspondence. Material is organized by title and spans 1921-1971.
Subseries 3: Writings by Others, contains books and articles written by others. Materials is organized by author and spans the 1920s-1977.
This series contains interviews, memoranda, press releases, and reports from Gosnell's work at the Bureau of the Budget and the Department of State, 1941-1960. This series is organized by department.
This series contains newsletters and some correspondence from organizations to which Gosnell belonged. It is arranged by name and spans 1951-1990.
This series contains charts, clippings, interviews, memorabilia, newsletters, notes, publications, polls, propaganda, and surveys related to Gosnell's research on public policy and political theory. Oversized material has been transferred to Series VIII. It is divided into seven subseries:
Subseries 1: National Elections, contains clippings, newsletters, notes, and propaganda related to presidential and congressional elections between 1926 and 1964. It is organized chronologically.
Subseries 2: Political Party Ephemera, contains memorabilia, newsletters, and notes related to American party politics between 1928 and 1976. It is organized chronologically.
Subseries 3: Voting, contains notes, publications, and polls related to voting and electoral behavior. It is organized by topic and spans the 1920s-1960s, though the bulk of the material dates from the 1930s.
Subseries 4: Public Opinion, contains interviews, notes, polls, publications, and surveys related to measuring public opinion, and its influence on policy. It is organized by research topic and spans the 1910s through the 1977.
Subseries 5: State and Local Politics, contains charts, clippings, notes, and publications related to state and local politics. It is organized by place and spans the 1920s-1980s, thought the bulk of the material dates from the 1930s.
Subseries 6: World Politics, contains notes and publications related to the political process outside America. It is organized by place and spans the 1920s through 1970s.
Subseries 7: General, contains varied research notes on politics and political theory, organized by topic. The bulk of this material is undated, but appears to span Gosnell's academic and political career, from the 1920s through the 1970s.
This series contains books, clippings, graphs, electoral maps, and campaigns posters, primarily related to American and British elections. Material has been transferred from Series III and VII. It spans 1922-1940.
This series contains graded student work and letters of recommendation. These date from Gosnell's employment at the University of Chicago (1926-1941), American University (1946-1962), and Howard University (1962-1970). Material has been transferred from Series III.
The Louis Gottschalk Papers include correspondence, memos, reports, and other material which extensively document his scholarly endeavors as well as his professional activities. Research notes and materials used in Professor Gottschalk's research on the life of Lafayette constitute approximately half of the material. Also included are reprints of Gottschalk's articles, tapes and handwritten copies of his lectures, and the dissertation abstracts and term papers of his students.
The collection is divided into eleven series:
Series I: General Correspondence
Series I contains the bulk of his letters to and from fellow historians. Gottschalk exchanged many memos and letters with colleagues at Chicago. In particular, his relationships with William T. Hutchinson, Bessie Louise Pierce, Avery Craven, and Bernadotte Schmidt are illuminated. Moreover, the ever-widening dialogue among historians regardless of national boundaries is amply recorded here; witness the trans-Atlantic correspondence with Albert Mathiez, Georges Lefebvre, and Gilbert Chinard. And, as Gottschalk became more involved with the development of the historical profession within the United States, his correspondence with American historians such as Merle Curti, Arthur Schlesinger, Sr., William L. Langer, Crane Brinton, and R. R. Palmer multiplied. Several letters from Gottschalk's mentors at Cornell, Carl Becker and Charles Hull, are scattered throughout this chronological series, as are numerous letters from his classmate, Leo Gershoy.
Series II: Topical Files- University of Chicago
Series III includes correspondence, memos, lectures, and miscellaneous materials. The subject areas incorporated into this series include 2) the Department of History 2) general University of Chicago administrative material 3) lectures delivered outside the confines of the History Department and 4) Gottschalk's role in the Chicago branch of the Universities Committee on Postwar International Problems.
Series III: Topical Files- General
Series III includes material in five major categories- 1) Gottschalk biographical and career related material 2) history-related organizational activities 3) lectures 4) reprints 5) correspondence with publishers and 6) Jewish activities.
Series IV: Students' papers
Series IV contains dissertation abstracts and students' papers from Gottschalk's courses at the University of Chicago. They have been listed alphabetically by students' names.
Series V: Lafayette Studies-correspondence
Series VI: Photostats
Series VI contains photostats and xerox copies of manuscript material, which Gottschalk collected from individuals and from public and private libraries in the United States and Europe for the Lafayette biography.
Series: VII. Tapes
Series VII consists of tapes of Gottschalk's public lectures, including the series of lectures he delivered in Japan during the spring of 1968
Series VIII: Microfiche
Series VIII consists of Gottschalk's research notes arranged chronologically.
Series IX: Notecards
The note cards in Series IX contain Gottschalk's outlines, bibliographies, class rosters, extensive reference notes, and quotations from the sources he used to compile the lectures for both his graduate and undergraduate history courses at the University of Chicago
Series X: Microfilms
Series X contains more than thirty-five microfilms of primary source material on Lafayette
Series XI: Annotated Books
Series XI contains copies of books written by Gottschalk and annotated by him, probably during revision for subsequent editions. Included are several pocket-sized editions of Gottschalk's books published by Haldeman-Julius as part of the “Little Blue Books” and “Ten Cent Pocket” series. These six titles are bound together.
This collection contains the correspondence, newspaper clippings, diaries, photographs, legal documents, maps, manuscripts and Albanian/Albanian-American newspapers kept by Gerim Panarity. Most materials relate to the Albanian-American community and modern Albanian history and politics. A significant percentage of the materials in this collection are in Albanian.

Series I contains Panarity's professional and personal correspondence. It also includes secondary correspondence generated through Mr. Panarity's translation work for Albanians in America trying to file legal claims in Albania after World War II.

Series II contains Panarity's writings, both personal (diaries) as well as numerous notes, drafts and manuscripts for articles and books.

Series III contains materials on Albania in the twentieth century, including writings and speeches from Albanian political figures, articles and books, radio transcripts, stamps, paper money, and maps. A small section of materials in Series III are from or about American missionaries to Albania in the 20th century.

Series IV generally contains material about Albanian-American life, its organs and organizations. Included is a small collection of ephemera from the Albanian Orthodox Archdiocese in America and several of their churches in the greater Boston area. This series also contains a set of sheet music from Professor Thomas Nassi, an Albanian-American graduate of the New England Conservatory who developed liturgical music for the Albanian Orthodox Church together with Bishop Fan Noli.

Series V contains images of prominent Albanians and Albanian life, including a number of images produced by the government of Communist Albania in the 1950s and 1960s.

Series VI contains material from Gerim Panarity's life unrelated to his interests in Albania, as well as a collection of obituaries published after his death.

Oversized materials throughout the collection have been removed and placed in Series VII, which also contains a number of early 20th century Albanian nationalist newspapers, maps and Panarity's scrapbook.

While the contents of the collection span nearly the entirety of the 20th century, the majority of the materials fall in the period from the 1940s-1970s.
Series I covers the period from 1939-1983. It contains both personal and professional correspondence of Gerim M. Panarity. This series also includes secondary correspondence generated through Panarity's translation work for Albanians in America trying to file legal claims in Albania after World War II.
Series II consists of material written by Gerim Panarity from the 1910s to the 1970s. It has been divided into two subseries: Diaries, and Notes and Manuscripts. Subseries 1 - Diaries contains his daily diaries for the period 1936-1959, as well as excerpted diary material prepared by his wife, Sarah Panarity. These diaries cover both the details of Panarity's daily life as well as his observations and political opinions about international developments. Subseries 2 - Notes and Manuscripts contains manuscripts of Panarity's various writings (both published and unpublished), as well as his notebooks, research notes and drafts. The majority of this writing is of article length, dealing with the history and politics of Albania. Published versions of some of these article manuscripts can be found in Series VII.
Series III contains a variety of materials about Albania in the twentieth century; the bulk of the material falls between 1920 and 1970. It contains writings and speeches by both Albanian democratic nationalists and Albanian communist leaders, as well as analyses of the political situation in Albania. It also includes articles and book excerpts on the topic of Albania. There is a significant quantity of translations of Radio Tirana, the official Albanian radio station, mostly for the year 1960. Also included are a number of Albanian artifacts, such as stamps and paper money from the 1910s-1950s, as well as maps of Albania. Finally, there are materials from and about Americans who undertook missionary work in Albania.
Series IV contains documentation from several prominent Albanian-American organs and organizations, spanning the 1940s to the 1980s. Represented are Dielli, the longest-running Albanian-language daily in the world; the Pan-Albanian Federation of America (Vatra), and the Albanian Orthodox Church in America. Oversized materials relating to the Orthodox Church can also be found in Series VII, as can numerous copies of Dielli. This series contains a set of sheet music from Professor Thomas Nassi, an Albanian-American graduate of the New England Conservatory who developed liturgical music for the Albanian Orthodox Church together with Bishop Fan Noli.
Series V contains images of Albanian life and prominent Albanians. Of particular note are the series of photographs of life in Communist Albania, provided by the Albanian government in the 1950s and 1960s. These photographs, as well as another set of photographs of a variety of Albanian and Albanian-Amercian subjects, are arranged by subject in folders 26 and 27. Oversized images from this collection have been removed and placed in Series VII.
Series VI contains material from Gerim Panarity's life unrelated to his interests in Albania, as well as a collection of obituaries published after his death.
This series is made up largely of newspapers and newspaper clippings, mainly on the subject of Albania, as well as maps, images and Panarity's scrapbook. Materials in this series range from 1911 to 1985. A number of the newspapers included here are printed in Albanian. Manuscripts for some of the published articles by Gerim Panarity in this series can be found in Series II. Additional material on both Dielli and the Orthodox Church in America can be found in Series IV. Images in this series have been removed from Series V.
The Gitel P. Steed papers, dating from 1907 to 1980, have been arranged in eight series. The basic organization of materials in these series conforms closely to the organization of the papers upon their arrival. The main feature of the collection is the material on three Indian villages in Series III to V, where the bulk of the collection is found.
Research notes from the project are found in four basic forms: life histories, general notes, field notebooks, and note extracts. Life histories comprise typed transcriptions of sets of interviews with a select number of informants as well as results and notes taken on psychodiagnostic tests administered by the researchers. General notes are typed notes that the researchers maintained on a daily basis, in which they included the results of participant-observation in the village. Field notebooks are the rough, handwritten primary sources from which both of the former sets of notes were transcribed. Finally, note extracts refer to excerpts cut, sometimes in thin strips of as little as one line of type, from both the general notes and the life history material and then refiled under topical categories such as religion, economics, and caste and kinship. Steed and her team also compiled detailed topical indices to both the general notes and the life histories. The most elaborate indices appear in a subseries of Series III.
Certain conventions adopted by Steed and her research team have been maintained in the collection. These conventions include (1) the use of pseudonyms and informant numbers to protect the anonymity of informants, and (2) the analysis of life history data, psychodiagnostic tests, and general notes, which has led to duplicated material in different parts of the collection. Pseudonyms apply to both villages and individual informants within each village. The village pseudonyms and informant numbers used in this inventory are the same as those used by the research team. Informant lists found at the beginning of Series III, IV and V list basic information (name, age, gender, and caste) on each informant by number. In cases where there was no informant number provided for a particular individual, the procedure was to label these cases "unnumbered informant."
Duplication of materials in the collection occurs primarily in Series III through Series V. Excerpts of life histories are found in the subsequent topical subseries, which include government, politics and Rajputs, caste and kinship, economics, and religion. The psychodiagnostic tests are cross-filed under the life history of a particular informant and under their own subseries. The general notes are excerpted in the topical files. Furthermore, all three types of data--life histories, psychodiagnostic tests, and general notes--are in part transcripts from the field notebooks.
This series comprises materials from Steed's research from 1947 to 1949 among Chinese immigrants in New York City. It includes transcripts of several informant life histories collected by Steed as well as a manuscript by Ruth Bunzel.
The project, under the direction of Ruth Bunzel, was funded initially by a grant from the Human Resources Division of the Office of Naval Research, and coincided with the trend in anthropology during and just after WWII to study "culture and personality."
Steed worked with individuals and families who had migrated to New York fromChina's Kwantung Province, and used primarily life histories, community "self-analysis," and projective, psychodiagnostic tests. She collected data on friendship and childhood, among other topics.
This series contains general and preliminary material related to Steed's research work in India. The series is divided into five subseries: General Files, Seminar on Rural India, Urban Life Histories and Tests, Note Cards, and Maps And Charts. (A description of the Field Project follows the subseries description).
Subseries 1: General Files, contains Steed's writings on the India research, including her dissertation as well as a screenplay she wrote based on characters in Kasandra; basic research materials used in the psychodiagnostic tests administered as part of the gathering of life histories; a preliminary research report; newspaper clippings, correspondence, and bibliographies; and a set of detailed inventories of the papers compiled in 1980 by James Silverberg, one of the original project team members. These inventories may be of value to the researcher who wishes to know more about the kind of material located in the files.
Subseries 2: Seminar On Rural India, comprises the set of lectures that Steed presented at Columbia University in 1952-1953. These lectures represent her first and perhaps most thorough examination of her fieldwork material. In these lectures she clearly states her theoretical goals and research methods.
Subseries 3: Urban Life Histories, contains material which was compiled in urban India prior to the village studies. These interviews and tests functioned in part as trials and in part as points for comparison to the subsequent rural studies.
Subseries 4: Note Cards, includes two card boxes of field data analysis, consisting of cut and paste notes taken from the General Notes and grouped into a set of topical areas. A third box of note cards consists of reading research notes on books and articles about India.
Subseries 5: Maps and Charts, contains maps that range in scale from the Indian sub-continent to state and district maps as well as maps of the villages produced by the research team. The charts consist of large kinship diagrams as well as posters of caste and marriage relations. Some maps from Steed's early fieldwork in Greenland are also to be found here. These latter are, however, the only material from her Inuit research in the collection.
This series contains all of the research materials produced from the study of Kasandra, a village in Gujarat State. These files were divided into eighteen subseries.
Subseries 1, Informant Life Histories and Psychodiagnostic Tests, contains life history material for 25 informants and includes a personal narration as well as a set of psychodiagnostic tests. The personal narration consists of typed transcriptions of interviews that took place in some cases over the course of an entire year. Informants were asked to speak and reflect as freely as possible on the things that they felt affected their life as they grew up and interacted with others. The psychodiagnostic tests include one or more of the following: Rorschach (which asks informants to identify shapes in ink blots), Thematic Apperception Test (which informants are shown a series of illustrations and asked to talk about the situation, people in it, what they might be doing, thinking, or feeling), Horn-Hellersberg (a drawing test), Draw-a-man (which informants are asked to draw and comment on a man, woman and child), and Color Association Test (designed for India, where informants are given a set of words and asked to
associate a color with the idea conveyed by the words). The amount of data varies for each informant.
Subseries 2, Psychodiagnostic Tests, contains the results of all tests categorized not by informant but by the test type. The tests were administered to more informants than were asked to give personal narrations.
Subseries 3 and 4, General Notes, contain notes by Gitel Steed and James Silverberg, respectively. These are typed transcripts from field notebooks that contain daily observations of life and work in Kasandra and have been chronologically arranged.
Subseries 5, Census Data, contains data of the village, including economic information categorized by household and caste. A set of maps of Kasandra is also included. Some of these maps are smaller versions of those found in Series II, subseries 5.
Subseries 6, Indices, contains a set of indices that Steed and her team devised in order to locate data on certain topics within their notes. Indices for demography, caste, politics, economics, religion, child behavior, and social relations are included. These indices reference the dates and page numbers of data to be found in general notes, life histories, and psychodiagnostic tests.
Subseries 7 through 13 are topical. Government, Politics, and Rajputs; Caste and Kinship; Economics; Land Tenure; Land Utilization Survey; Structure of Family and Child Life; and Religion. These subseries include maps, charts, genealogies, survey results, copies of government surveys and reports, a few manuscripts on the specified topics, and many extracted notes. The extracted notes are for the most part cut-and-pasted portions taken from general notes and life histories.
Subseries 14 through 16, Field Notebooks, were kept by Steed, Silverberg, and others, respectively. These are the notebooks that the researchers carried with them to their interviews and on their daily rounds in the village. Most of the notebooks were later typed up and their entries can be found in other places in the collection. It is not always clear which ones have been typed and which ones have not. Aside from the two main researchers, Steed and Silverberg, others also kept notebooks, including both Indian and non-Indian research assistants as well as informants themselves. An account book kept by Robert Steed is also found here. The notebooks are arranged chronologically, and headings correspond to those found on the notebooks themselves.
Subseries 17, Drawings, contains a large number of watercolors and drawings, in pencil, pen, and charcoal, by informants of all ages. Informants drew people, animals, houses, and landscapes as well as other objects of everyday life.
Subseries 18, Interviews, 1970-1971, contains a set of interviews Steed conducted on a return visit to India in 1970-1971. Accompanied by her husband, Steed conducted several interviews, some with her previous informants, to evaluate perceptions of social change in the intervening twenty years.
This series contains eleven subseries and includes similar material to those listed above for Kasandra. Nawabpur was a predominantly Muslim village in Uttar Pradesh where the researchers moved for their second year in India. Steed left halfway through their stay in Nawabpur due to illness, and James Silverberg took over the direction of the project during her absence. Steed's general notebooks were continued, in series, by other researchers after she left the field. There are additionally a series of notes taken by Grace Langley, an American graduate student who joined the project as an assistant this second year.
This series contains five subseries and includes the typewritten notes and data collected by G. Morris Carstairs while in Deoli, the third village included in the India project. Carstairs worked for the most part alone and stayed in the village for approximately six months. A psychiatrist, Carstairs was mostly interested in life history material, and therefore the bulk of his data is on particular individuals.
This series contains 70 photographs by Gitel Steed as well as the artwork of Robert Steed, an artist by profession. Most of Steed's photographs are believed to come from Kasandra, though some from Nawabpur are included as well. These black-and-white photographs portray parents and children, gods and rituals, and a variety of village scenes. Some of her India photographs appeared in Edward Steichen's exhibit on "The Family of Man" at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1955 and are reproduced in the book of the same title. Several negatives are also included in the series.
Robert Steed, having accompanied his wife to India, spent a great deal of his time sketching the villagers, their houses, shrines, etc. The collection here includes small pencil sketches on index cards, color and black-and-white xeroxes of other sketches still in the possession of the Steed family, and several watercolors of villagers and of village religious sites.
This series contains manuscripts and publications that were in Steed's possession. These articles are on a wide variety of topics, primarily on India, and date from 1932 to 1977. Some of the manuscripts are early versions of what later became influential publications on India (the works of McKim Marriott and Bernard Cohn, for example). Most of the manuscripts in this series are on India.
These are duplicate files that were removed from this series during the processing of this collection.
The Emil Julius Gumbel Papers consist primarily of general personal correspondence arranged alphabetically by correspondent, including in most cases a copy of Gumbel's reply. Also included in the collection are Gumbel's topical files. These files pertain for the most part to particular episodes and activities, such as Gumbel's association with the Office of Strategic Service.
The Eleanor Prescott Hammond Papers are organized into three series: Series I: Correspondence; Series II: Research and Writing; and Series III: Oversize. The collection contains correspondence, research notes, handwritten transcribed manuscripts, typescripts of manuscripts, article and book drafts, newspaper clippings, prints, and an annotated book.
Series I, Correspondence, contains personal and professional correspondence from Hammond to scholars of late medieval period literature. The series primarily consists of correspondence with University of Chicago professors Thomas Atkinson Jenkins, John Matthews Manly, and Edith Rickert pertaining to the University’s Chaucer Project and to Hammond’s independent research.
Series II, Research and Writing, consists of Hammond’s research notebooks and files on Geoffrey Chaucer, John Lydgate, and late medieval period poetry, along with article and manuscript drafts. Of special interest is a handwritten transcription of the portion of Hammond’s will bequeathing her notes to Edith Rickert and the University of Chicago, located in Box 2, Folder 6. The folder labels in this series include the title given by Hammond to the notebook or file their contents were originally housed in, transcribed verbatim.
Series III, Oversize, contains a 1930 Rockwell Kent print of the Monk’s Tale from Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales and the text of the Miller’s Tale.
The collection contains fifteen letters written by Hancock from 1864 to 1884. Fourteen of the letters were sent to Samuel S. Cox, a member of the US House of Representatives from New York. These letters are arranged in chronological order. Included at the end of the collection is another letter from Hancock to Ebenezer S. Lane Jr., the son of Ohio Supreme Court Justice of the same name. Finally, there is a short, undated note regarding Hancock’s acceptance of an invitation by S.S. Cox. All the letters contained in the series are dated 1864-1884.
The collection was previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
The Harper College Center Rededication collection consists of programs, speeches, booklets, reel-to-reel, film, and other miscellaneous material associated with the original 1912 dedication and the 1973 rededication.
The collection consists primarily of Harper’s diaries from 1864 to 1903. Found in the pockets of the diaries were concert programs, advertisements, news clippings, correspondence, tax receipts, and notes. Also included in the collection is an expense book for the year 1862.
The University of Chicago's collection of books from the John Hay library consists of books purchased by William E. Barton from Barker's Art Store of Springfield, IL in 1926. The main focus of Barton's purchase had been a collection of law books from the offices of Abraham Lincoln and William H. Herndon. At this time, however, Barton also acquired 19 volumes from the personal library of John Milton Hay. Twelve of these books are part of this collection. Several of these books are annotated in what is alleged to be Hay's own hand and their publication dates correspond roughly to the period during which Hay served on Lincoln's White House staff.
This collection consists of 17 laboratory notebooks developed by Urey and the students he mentored. Most of the notebooks date from the mid-1930s, immediately following Urey's discovery of deuterium and spanning the award of his Nobel Prize and further research in isotope separation at Columbia University.
Many of the students whose notebooks are included here made important contributions to their fields, both in their work with Urey and later in their careers. Represented here are Harry G. Thode, a prominent Canadian nuclear chemist and key figure in the development of McMaster University; Charles A. Bradley, with whom Urey introduced the Urey-Bradley force field; Weldon G. Brown, who went on to serve as a professor of organic chemistry at University of Chicago; and several others who performed significant research in isotope separation under Urey's mentorship.
The notebooks in Box 3 are not identified by the researchers who developed them, but are likely to be Harold Urey's own, or possibly those of his students.
The Robert Herrick Papers contain correspondence; manuscripts of novels, plays, short stories, and literary criticism. The collection also includes essays and lectures on political, educational, and literary subjects. Herrick's correspondents include Robert Morss Lovett, Jane Addams, William Dean Howells, Harriet Monroe, William Rainey Harper, Norman Hapgood, and Bernard Berenson.
There are ten series in this collection, which include:
I. Correspondence
II. Autobiographical Documents
III. Literary Manuscripts
IV. Essays and Lectures
V. Teaching Notes
VI. World War I Papers, Articles, and Memorabilia
VII. Virgin Island Papers
VIII. Reviews of Novels
IX. Legal-Sized
X. Miscellaneous Correspondence, Interviews, and Ephemera
Series X consists of addenda materials including letters written to Blake Nevius in response to his inquiries concerning the life and work of the American novelist, Robert Herrick [1868-1938], as well as other research materials. One or two of the letters were written when Nevius was preparing his Ph.D. dissertation at the University of Chicago on "The Novels of Robert Herrick" in 1946-7; most of the letters, however, are dated ca. 1951-1960 when he was working on the biographical study, Robert Herrick: The Development of a Novelist (University of California Press, 1962). The collection includes correspondence with friends, students, and colleagues of Herrick, among whom are the novelist Winston Churchill, Robert Morss Lovett, John P. Marquand, Forrest Rosaire, Edward Wagenknecht; Herrick's housekeeper during his last years, Miss Annie Luckie; Philip Herrick, the author's son; librarians and custodians of Herrick manuscripts, and researchers working for Nevius. Photocopies of letters from George Santayana and Bernard Berenson to Mrs. Barnet Levy are also included. One folder contains transcripts of interviews with Philip Herrick; another, miscellaneous materials related to Robert Herrick: copies of several of his letters; a map of Cambridge, Massachusetts as it was during Herrick's youth, and miscellaneous research notes.
The Thomas Hilliard Papers contain printed jazz and blues music by various publishers. There is a series of jazz pedagogical instruction books by Maury Deutsch.
The Department of History Records contain correspondence, memoranda, minutes, letters of recommendation, examinations, reports, proposals, student lists and student evaluations.
The collection is organized into four series:
Series I contains correspondence between faculty, administrators, students, and librarians. The series also contains letters of inquiry and applications sent to the department of history. Series I is divided into six subseries.
Series II contains departmental minutes and other executive papers, administrative memos, reports and proposals, applications to faculty positions, Fishbein Center papers, and library administration papers. Series II is divided into eight subseries.
Series III contains unrestricted student records for M.A., Ph.D., and other students, records of fellowships and scholarships, student recommendation letters, copies of course examinations, course schedules, course reading lists, memos of work, and papers pertaining to student organizations and clubs. Series III is divided into six subseries.
Series IV contains material that is restricted for R-P30, R-50, and R-80 years. The collection contains restricted administrative and student papers, including material from the council of the university senate, financial and personnel material, departmental minutes, evaluated student work and recommendations, fellowship data, and instructors’ reports. Series IV is divided into two subseries and the entire series will be available in 2064.
Series I contains correspondence between faculty, administrators, students, and librarians. The series also contains letters of inquiry and applications sent to the department of history. Series I is divided into six subseries.
Subseries 1 contains intra-faculty correspondence; subseries 2 contains correspondence pertaining to personnel; subseries 3 contains general faculty correspondence; subseries 4 contains student correspondence; subseries 5 contains library correspondence; and subseries 6 contains letters of inquiry and applications.
Series II contains departmental minutes and other executive papers, administrative memos, reports and proposals, applications to faculty positions, Fishbein Center papers, and library administration papers. Series II is divided into eight subseries.
Subseries 1 contains departmental minutes; subseries 2 contains executive papers; subseries 3 contains administrative memos and notices; subseries 4 contains reports and proposals; subseries 5 contains applications for faculty positions; subseries 6 contains Fishbein Center materials; subseries 7 contains library administration papers; and subseries 8 contains miscellaneous administrative materials.
Series III contains unrestricted student records for M.A., Ph.D., and other students, records of fellowships and scholarships, student recommendation letters, copies of course examinations, course schedules, course reading lists, memos of work, and papers pertaining to student organizations and clubs. Series III is divided into six subseries.
Subseries 1 contains unrestricted student records for M.A., Ph.D., and other students; subseries 2 contains papers pertaining to student fellowships and scholarships; subseries 3 contains recommendation letters; subseries 4 contains course examinations; subseries 5 contains other course and degree materials; and subseries 6 contains other miscellaneous academic materials.
Series IV contains restricted administrative, financial, and evaluative information. The series is divided into two subseries: Administrative Restrictions and Academic Restrictions.
In Subseries 1, Folder 46 is restricted until 2023. Folders 47-49 are restricted for 50 years from date of creation (material is restricted until 2019-2040).
In Subseries 2, Folders 50-58 are restricted for 80 years from date of creation (material is restricted until 2019-2064).
The entire series will be available in 2064.
This collection is made up of the correspondence, business papers, and assorted miscellany of Dexter and Sheldon Hitchcock, and their families between 1834 and 1878. Of interest to the economic historian will be the shipping receipts and bills of lading in the business papers of Dexter Hitchcock, 1834-1835, and the various personal account books for the post Civil War period in Folder 6. There are also two interesting letters dealing with western lands in the correspondence of Sheldon Hitchcock, and a group of letters written by soldiers in the Union Army to family and friends in Aurora, Illinois.
This collection is organized into 3 series:
Series I: History
Series II: Urban Renewal Movement
Series III: Oversized
The Hyde Park-Kenwood and Woodlawn Records contain articles, journals, small publications, brochures, correspondence, neighborhood directories, flyers, newsletters, advertisements, neighborhood guides, pamphlets, proposals, reports, and newspapers concerning the history of Hyde Park and its surrounding neighborhoods, as well as the urban renewal movement.
This series contains newspaper and journal articles, small publications, newsletters, correspondence, brochures, directories, and miscellaneous flyers and pamphlets. The materials date from 1883 to 2004 and are arranged by type and then chronologically.
This series contains press releases, newspaper and journal articles, brochures and pamphlets, reports, proposals, and personal correspondence related to the urban redevelopment movement led by the University in Hyde Park, Kenwood, and Woodlawn neighborhoods. The materials date from 1953 to 2002 and are arranged by type, and then chronologically.
This series contains press releases, newspaper clippings, newspaper issues, magazine issues, and journal issues. The materials date from 1923 to 2004 and are arranged by type and then chronologically.
The Division of the Humanities Research Grants Records contain correspondence, reports, and summaries relating to grants given for specific research projects undertaken by the faculty of the Humanities Division of the University. Most of the grants were awarded by the General Education Board, the Rockefeller Foundation and the American Council of Learned Societies.
The Leigh Hunt and Craik Family Collection contains nine signed letters from members of the Craik Family to Leigh Hunt. Six of the letters are signed “Geo L Craik,” but it is unclear whether this is George Lillie Craik, the Scottish essayist, or his nephew, Henry Craik’s son, also named George Lillie Craik. Two are signed “Mary Craik.” It is presumed that these letters are from Dinah Maria Craik, the wife of George Lillie Craik, the younger. Also included is one letter signed from Jannette Craik, George Lillie Craik’s (the essayist) wife. Most of the letters are undated, though the dates available place the letters 1849-1889.
The collection was previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
The collection is organized into fifteen series:
I. Personal
II. Correspondence
III. Subject Files
IV. Yale University
V. University of Chicago
VI. Encyclopedia Britannica
VII. Commission on Freedom of the Press
VIII. Committee to Frame a World Constitution
IX. Ford Foundation, Fund for the Republic, and Center for Study of Democratic Institutions
X. Writings
XI. Honors and Awards
XII. Audiovisual
XIII. Books
XIV. Oversize
XV. Restricted
I. Personal: Contains material pertinent to Hutchins' early life - such as notebooks from his studies at Yale University - and to his death - such as memorials and obituaries. The series also contains interviews with and writings about Hutchins.
II. Correspondence: Contains the personal and professional correspondence of Robert Hutchins. Hutchins corresponded with an impressive number of 20th-century luminaries; persons represented here include Saul Alinsky, Steve Allen, Pearl S. Buck, Albert Einstein, T. S. Eliot, Hubert Humphrey, Oscar Hammerstein II, Aldous and Laura Huxley, Charles and Anne Lindbergh, Benjamin E. Mays, Thurgood Marshall, Edward R. Murrow, Paul Newman, the Rockefeller family, Earl Warren, and Frank Lloyd Wright. Of particular interest to researchers is extensive correspondence with William O. Douglas, Adlai Stevenson, and Thornton Wilder.
III. Subject Files: Consists of general subject files, arranged alphabetically by topic. Of particular note are files on the Atomic Energy Control Conference of 1945 and Hutchins' file on his negotiations with President Franklin D. Roosevelt about leading the National Recovery Administration in 1934.
IV. Yale University: Includes documents pertaining to Hutchins' employment at the University. Researchers seeking materials relevant to his education at Yale should consult Series I, Personal.
V. University of Chicago: Contains material pertaining to Hutchins' time at the University of Chicago including material pertaining to Hutchins' inauguration as President of the University of Chicago, correspondence with various journals published by the University of Chicago Press, Board of Trustees materials, press releases, and clippings files. Researchers interested in Hutchins' career at the University of Chicago should also consult the records of the University of Chicago Office of the President.
VI. Encyclopædia Britannica: Consists of material pertaining to Robert Maynard Hutchins' work as chairman of the Board of Editors of the Encyclopædia Britannica, from 1943 to 1974 and as director for Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Additionally, he was editor in chief of the 54-volume Great Books of the Western World (1952) and coeditor, from 1961 to 1977, with Mortimer J. Adler, of The Great Ideas Today. The bulk of the material in this series dates from the late 1950s to the early 1970s.
VII. Commission on Freedom of the Press: Contains correspondence, memoranda, reports, meeting materials, and clippings pertaining to Hutchins' chairmanship of the Commission on Freedom of the Press.
VIII. Committee to Frame a World Constitution: Includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, drafts, clippings, and other ephemera relevant to Hutchins' founding of and work for the Committee to Frame a World Constitution.
IX. Ford Foundation, Fund for the Republic, and Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions: Consists of a small amount of material pertaining to Hutchins' association with the Ford Foundation and the Fund for the Republic. This is followed by general administrative records for the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, as well as material for Center papers, discussions, conferences, and projects.
X. Writings: Contains material related to the development of Hutchins' published and unpublished written work. This includes notes, outlines, manuscripts and typescripts, correspondence, publicity, and reviews. The series is subdivided by type of writing: 1) General (bibliographic information, clippings, and notes); 2) Books; 3) Articles; 4) Speeches; and 5) Engagements. Subseries 5, Engagements contains speeches and other public talks (introductions, radio addresses, etc.), arranged in chronological order. This material was maintained separately by Hutchins from that in Subseries 4, Speeches.
XI. Honors and Awards: Includes certificates, diplomas, memorials, medals, medallions, and ephemera pertaining to awards and honors received by Hutchins.
XII. Audiovisual: Contains photographs, cassette tapes, audio reel-to-reel tapes, and one 33 1/3 record. The photographs are mainly of Hutchins at meetings and events. The audio recordings include speeches given by Hutchins, as well as interviews. Access copies for audio recordings in this series are not included. Researchers will need to consult with staff before requesting these items.
XIII. Books: Contains annotated books from Hutchins' personal library and loose-leaf notes found enclosed.
XIV. Oversize: Contains oversize materials including honors and awards, photographs, posters and broadsides, an issue of the Saturday Evening Post, and academic regalia.
XV. Restricted: Includes restricted personnel, financial, and student material. Materials in Subseries 1 are restricted for fifty years from date of record creation. Subseries 1 as a whole will be fully open in 2027. Materials in Subseries 2 are restricted for eighty years from date of record creation. Subseries 2 as a whole will be fully open in 2055.
Series I, Personal, is divided into two subseries: General and Biographical. Subseries 1 contains material pertinent to Hutchins' early life - such as notebooks from his studies at Yale University - and to his death - such as memorials and obituaries. Materials are arranged chronologically. Subseries 2 contains interviews with and writings about Robert Maynard Hutchins. Interviews are first, followed by writings about Hutchins.
This series contains the personal and professional correspondence of Robert Hutchins. The series begins with general incoming and outgoing correspondence with individuals and organizations (1920-1979), arranged alphabetically. This is followed by a set of carbon copies of Hutchins' outgoing personal correspondence ("Personal Pinks" and "Personal Yellows"). The carbon copies are arranged chronologically, as found. Carbons date from 1940 to 1959. Correspondence with persons and entities with whom there was an extensive amount of correspondence is arranged alphabetically by name at the end of the series. This set of correspondence makes up the bulk of the series.
Hutchins corresponded with an impressive number of 20th-century luminaries; persons represented here include Saul Alinsky, Steve Allen, Pearl S. Buck, Albert Einstein, T. S. Eliot, Hubert Humphrey, Oscar Hammerstein II, Aldous and Laura Huxley, Charles and Anne Lindbergh, Benjamin E. Mays, Thurgood Marshall, Edward R. Murrow, Paul Newman, the Rockefeller family, Earl Warren, and Frank Lloyd Wright. Of particular interest to researchers is extensive correspondence with William O. Douglas, Adlai Stevenson, and Thornton Wilder.
This series contains general subject files, arranged alphabetically by topic. Of particular note are files on the Atomic Energy Control Conference of 1945 and Hutchins' file on his negotiations with President Franklin D. Roosevelt about leading the National Recovery Administration in 1934.
Series IV, Yale University, contains documents pertaining to Hutchins' employment at the University. Researchers seeking materials relevant to his education at Yale should consult Series I, Personal. Following the receipt of his B.A. and a stint teaching at the Lake Placid School, New York from 1921 to 1923, Hutchins returned to Yale to assume the post of secretary to the Yale Corporation. He simultaneously earned an LL.B. from Yale's law school in 1925, and taught courses in public service law, evidence, and code pleading. He was appointed acting dean of the Yale University School of Law in 1927, then dean of the law school in 1928. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series V, University of Chicago, contains material pertaining to Hutchins' time at the University of Chicago. This series is subdivided into two subseries: General and Publicity. The bulk of Subseries 1 is made up of materials pertaining to Hutchins' inauguration as President of the University of Chicago, correspondence with various journals published by the University of Chicago Press, and Board of Trustees materials. Materials in Subseries 1 are arranged chronologically. Subseries 2 consists of press releases and clippings files relating to Hutchins set up in part by the Office of the President and in part by the Public Relations department. Two sets of clippings have been preserved: one in chronological order and the other in alphabetical order by topic. Press releases on Hutchins issued by the Public Relations department administration are arranged chronologically at the end of this subseries.
Series VI, Encyclopædia Britannica, contains material pertaining to Robert Maynard Hutchins' work as chairman of the Board of Editors of the Encyclopædia Britannica, from 1943 to 1974 and as director for Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Additionally, he was editor in chief of the 54-volume Great Books of the Western World (1952) and coeditor, from 1961 to 1977, with Mortimer J. Adler, of The Great Ideas Today. The bulk of the material in this series dates from the late 1950s to the early 1970s.
The series is divided into four subseries:
Subseries 1, General, includes records related to the Encyclopædia Britannica Educational Corporation, Encyclopædia Britannica Films, and the Great Books and The Great Ideas Today series. Materials are arranged alphabetically by topic.
Subseries 2, Correspondence, begins with general correspondence organized chronologically, followed by correspondence arranged alphabetically by correspondent or topic (as maintained by Hutchins).
Subseries 3, Board of Editors, is made up predominately of meeting materials including agendas, minutes, correspondence, and papers.
Subseries 4, Content Development, contains editorial conference materials, outlines, correspondence, and drafts of articles for inclusion in the Encyclopædia Britannica. "Roof article" was the term used by the Board of Editors to describe a series of articles conceived of in the early 1960s as a part of long-term editorial planning. The articles cover fifteen broad topics, (economic order, political order, world order, social order, education, religion, philosophy, nature, human nature, literature and the fine arts, technological order, logic and mathematics, communications, legal order, and medicine), and were intended to be dialectic, global, and prospective.
Series VII contains correspondence, memoranda, reports, meeting materials, and clippings pertaining to Hutchins' chairmanship of the Commission on Freedom of the Press. The Commission on Freedom of the Press was appointed in 1944 to investigate the freedom, function, and responsibilities of the major agencies of mass communication operative at the time. The Commission was funded by grants from Time, Inc., and Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. Materials in this series are arranged chronologically.
Series VIII contains material relevant to Robert Maynard Hutchins' work with the Committee to Frame a World Constitution, which he helped to form. The Committee to Frame a World Constitution was first convened in the fall of 1945 as part of the post-World War II World Federalist movement. This series includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, drafts, clippings, and other ephemera. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series IX contains material relevant to Robert M. Hutchins' association with the Ford Foundation, the Fund for the Republic, and the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. Hutchins served as associate director of the Ford Foundation from 1951, and was president of the Foundation's Fund for the Republic beginning in 1954. In 1959 he founded the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, California as the Fund's main activity, and served as its president for twenty-five years. During this time, the activities of the Center included publications, organized discussions, and public meetings about large issues faced by contemporary democratic society.
The series is divided into two subseries. Subseries 1, Administrative, begins with a small amount of material pertaining to the Ford Foundation and to the Fund for the Republic. This is followed by general administrative material for the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions such as meeting materials and correspondence. Subseries 2, Programs and Events, begins with material pertaining to papers, discussions, and conferences led by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. This material is arranged chronologically and is followed by two groupings of material related to larger CSDI projects on the topics of education and law.
Series X, Writings, consists of material related to the development of Hutchins' published and unpublished written work. This includes notes, outlines, manuscripts and typescripts, correspondence, publicity, and reviews. The series is subdivided by type of writing: 1) General; 2) Books; 3) Articles; 4) Speeches; and 5) Engagements.
Subseries 1, General, contains bibliographic information, clippings, notes, and unidentified manuscript material.
Subseries 2, Books, contains notes, manuscripts and typescripts, proofs, correspondence, publicity, and other material relevant to Hutchins' books. This includes material for The Higher Learning in America; No Friendly Voice; Education for Freedom; The Conflict in Education; The University of Utopia; Freedom, Education and the Fund; Some Observations on American Education; The Learning Society; and Zuckerkandl (also a film).
Subseries 3, Articles, contains articles written by Robert Maynard Hutchins and published in newspapers, magazines, periodicals, and journals; his contributions to anthologies; and prefaces to other writers' monographs. It contains both printed publications and drafts (typescripts and manuscripts), as well as related correspondence. In addition to English, a few materials in this subseries are in German, Japanese, Norwegian, and Spanish. Hutchins' writings address an immense variety of topics. Highlights include early journal articles on legal science; writings on education policy, on the United States' involvement in the Second World War, and on atomic bombs; and a series of thirteen articles "Some Natural Tears" in the Chicago Daily News March-June 1951 upon his departure from the University of Chicago.
Subseries 3 is divided into two sub-subseries: 1) Articles and 2) Correspondence. Sub-subseries 1 is arranged chronologically. Folder headings include the main and alternative titles of the article, its original date of publication, and, if different from the date of publication, the inclusive dates of materials in the folder. Sub-subseries 2 contains correspondence related to Hutchins' published articles. It consists mainly of correspondence between Hutchins and readers regarding a series of articles published between 1937 and 1938 in the Saturday Evening Post; between Hutchins and the Los Angeles Times Syndicate regarding his columns in the Los Angeles Times 1963-1966; and between Hutchins and readers of the Los Angeles Times columns. Correspondences between Hutchins and the Los Angeles Times Syndicate also contain drafts of his columns. Each section of Sub-subseries 2 is organized chronologically.
Subseries 4, Speeches, contains speeches by Robert Maynard Hutchins, including addresses, commencement speeches, lectures, remarks, introductions of other speakers and guests, and radio speeches. It contains drafts, outlines, and notes (typescript and manuscripts); published materials based on his speeches; and correspondence related to his radio speeches. Highlights include commencement addresses at the University of Chicago; remarks at annual gatherings of faculty, trustees, and alumni of the University of Chicago; radio addresses on education policy and the United States' involvement in the Second World War; and speeches on war and education during the Second World War.
This subseries begins with speeches, ordered chronologically. Folder headings for speeches include the title, venue, and date of the engagement at which the speech was given, and, if different from the date of the engagement, the inclusive dates of materials in the folder. Correspondence related to Hutchins' radio broadcasts follows. This is mainly correspondence between Hutchins and the public regarding his radio speeches in 1935 on higher education and in 1941 on the United States' involvement in the Second World War. Carbon copies of Hutchins' outgoing correspondence regarding radio broadcasts are also found here and an index thereof. Correspondence is organized chronologically.
Subseries 5, Engagements, contains speeches and other public talks (introductions, radio addresses, etc.), arranged in chronological order. This material was maintained separately by Hutchins from that in Subseries 4, Speeches. Each speaking engagement has its own folder, including occasions on which Hutchins made extemporaneous remarks, and occasions when he gave a repeat delivery of an extant speech. For each speaking engagement, at least one slip of paper generated by one of Hutchins' secretaries after the fact, with the date, organization, location and title, if applicable, accompanies the other material. In cases of extemporaneous and repeat talks, often the slips are all there is. This is indicated in folder headings as "slip only." In other cases, the folders contain the texts of talks in various forms: notes, manuscripts, typescripts, carbons. Some folders also contain correspondence, event programs, or clippings. The folder headings give the title of the talks unless the talk was untitled, in which case the folder heading reflects the occasion or organization for which the talk was given. The foldering, arrangement, and retention of the slips follow the original filing system.
Series XI, Honors and Awards, contains certificates, diplomas, memorials, medals, medallions, and ephemera pertaining to awards and honors received by Robert M. Hutchins.
Series XII, Audiovisual, contains photographs, cassette tapes, audio reel-to-reel tapes, and one 33 1/3 record. The photographs are mainly of Hutchins at meetings and events. The audio recordings include speeches given by Hutchins, as well as interviews. Access copies for audio recordings in this series are not included. Researchers will need to consult with staff before requesting these items.
This series contains annotated books from Hutchins' personal library and loose-leaf notes found enclosed.
This series contains oversize materials including honors and awards, photographs, posters and broadsides, an issue of the Saturday Evening Post, and academic regalia.
This series contains files to which access is restricted. Subseries 1 contains financial and personnel materials, restricted for 50 years from date of record creation. Subseries 1 as a whole will be fully open in 2027. Subseries 2 contains evaluative student material, which is restricted for 80 years from date of record creation. Subseries 2 as a whole will be fully open in 2055.
The International Association for Cultural Freedom Records are divided into eight series:
Series I, Correspondence Chronological File, 1953-1968 contains general correspondence related to the CCF and IACF.
Series II, Correspondence and Subject Files, 1948-1978 contains correspondence, reports, manuscripts and clippings filed topically by the Paris Office of the CCF and IACF.
Series III, Seminars, 1950-1977 documents the IACF's programs to encourage the work of intellectuals in all parts of the world by bringing together intellectuals, from regional or national areas or internationally, to consider specific issues or problems. The issues considered in the seminars ranged from Twentieth Century Masterpieces (Paris 1952), The Future of Freedom (Milan 1955), The New Metropolis in the Arab World (Cairo 1960), The East-West Music Encounter (Tokyo 1961), Inter-University Cooperation in West Africa (Freetown 1961), The Formation of Elites in Latin America (Montevideo 1965) to The Intellectual and Power (Aspen 1973). Two seminars will be of particular interest to those researching the history of the CCF: The Founding Conference (Berlin 1950) which articulated the organization's goals and a tenth anniversary celebration, Progress in Freedom (Berlin 1960), which produced considerable documentation on the accomplishments of the CCF's first ten years and which reaffirmed its mission for the 1960's.
 Series IV, Financial Files, 1951-1968, documents the routine financial transactions of the CCF. It includes bank statements, receipts, royalty notices, memoranda, airline and other travel receipts, and other minor financial records. Most of the material is dated 1951-1966.
 Series V, Documentation and Ephemeral Publications, 1950-1972, documents one of the major initiatives of the CCF and IACF and contains record copies of newsletters, pamphlets, photographs, illustrations, scrapbooks and recordings produced by the organizations. The records of the journal Preuves are in Series VII. Records of Der Monat, a German language journal associated at some points in its publication history with the IACF form a separate collection.
 Series VI, Latin American Institute of International Relations (ILARI), 1954-1972, contains records associated with the Instituto LatinAmericano de Relaciones Internationales, a partner institute to the CCF, founded in Lima, Peru in 1965 under the directorship of Luis Mercier Vega. Among ILARI's primary goals was distribution of CCF publications in Latin America, and establishment of new centers for study, primarily in South America.
Series VII, Preuves Papers, 1951-1969 includes the records of Preuves, a journal sponsored by the CCF which appeared monthly between 1951 and 1969, had a closer relationship to the CCF than other sponsored journals because it was published in Paris, the Congress' headquarters. Its editorial policy was characterized by three areas of special interest: European intellectuals in relation to emergent European community; the situation and problems of intellectuals in communist states; and colonial wars and the consequences of decolonization.
 Series VIII, Edward Shils Papers, 1958-1975, contains correspondence to and from Edward Shils.
Series I contains general correspondence related to the CCF and IACF, organized in an alphabetical sequence for each year from 1953 to 1968. Correspondence to and from Edward Shils may be found in Series VIII.
Series II contains correspondence, reports, manuscripts and clippings filed topically by the Paris Office of the CCF and IACF. It is divided into two subseries: Subseries I: Correspondence and Subject Files, 1948-1967 and Subseries II: Correspondence and Subject Files, 1967-1978. Subseries I consists of the correspondence and subject files from the founding of the Congress for Cultural Freedom to the reorganization of the CCF into the International Association for Cultural Freedom in 1967. Subseries II consists of the correspondence and subject file of the International Association for Cultural Freedom. Due to the continuity between the two organizations, there is some overlap between the two subseries. Correspondence to and from Edward Shils may be found in Series VIII.
Series III comprises files documenting the regional and international seminars held by the IACF to discuss specific issues or problems. Files contain correspondence, minutes, proceedings and reports, press clippings, and other published materials.
The material is arranged chronologically by date of seminar; a small group of administrative papers not related to particular seminars is held at the end of the series. For each seminar material is approximately ordered as follows: 1) correspondence detailing seminar arrangements; 2) planning material and the statement of purpose for the seminar; 3) lists of participants considered, invited and attending each seminar; 4) programs; 5) papers presented (in both original language and translation); 6) reports; 7) press clippings; 8) transcriptions of proceedings and unpublished manuscripts. Since the size and scope of seminars varied widely not every seminar is represented by every category of materials.
This collection does not contain documentation of all seminars held by the CCF and IACF. Photographs and tape recordings relating to seminars are in Series V. (Documentation: Photographs.) Correspondence to and from Edward Shils may be found in Series VIII.
Publication and distribution of printed matter was a major effort of the IACF. Record copies of these publications have been organized in Series V by form.
Subseries 1: Newsletters. IACF newsletters were a service to newspaper and magazine editors throughout the world. Directed to editors they contained information and suggestions on issues of concern to the Association. Some presented general background information (e.g., Informations du Congrès pour la Liberté de la Culture, which appeared in several languages) while others dealt specifically with one issue (e.g., Censure contre les arts et les pensées) or one geographic area (e.g., The Free Spirit, bulletin of the Australian Committee for Cultural Freedom. Newsletters are arranged by language, then alphabetically by title, and finally in order of appearance. Information about a particular newsletter (e.g., title changes, issue numbers, complete or incomplete runs) is recorded in the inventory when known.
Subseries 2: Pamphlets. Pamphlets were generally intended to call attention to specific problems or issues and were frequently offered in several languages. They have been sorted alphabetically by country or continent.
Subseries 3: Photographs, Illustrations, and Scrapbooks. Most of the photographs relate to seminars. They have been arranged in parallel order to Series III and are identified by the cities and dates on which the seminars were held. Some of the photographs and the scrapbooks relate to exhibitions or other IACF sponsored events and activities and are identified in the inventory. This Subseries has been cross-referenced in Series II and III. Also included in this series are several illustrations and large posters.
Subseries 4: Audio Recordings. The audio recordings relate to seminars. They have been arranged in parallel order to Series III and are identified by the cities and dates on which the seminars were held. This Subseries has been cross-referenced in Series II and III.
In late 1965, an organizational meeting took place in Lima, Peru to outline the Latin American Institute of International Relations (also known as ILARI, or the Instituto LatinAmericano de Relaciones Internationales). The meeting was led by Luis Mercier Vega, the director of the institute. The separation of the Latin American department of the Congress for Cultural Freedom resulted in ILARI being established as an independent entity. ILARI continued to operate as a partner institute to the CCF. The primary goal of ILARI was to help distribution of CCF publications in Latin America and establish new centers for study, primarily in South America. ILARI was officially incorporated in Geneva, Switzerland in January of 1966. Series VI contains materials specific to ILARI, and is divided into 4 Subseries. Due to the nature of the collection, there is some overlap between Subseries.
Subseries 1: Correspondence. Letters, telegrams, postcards, memoranda, and other general correspondence is contained in Subseries 1. This Subseries is further divided into three Sub-subseries. The first contains correspondence primarily concerned with the administration of ILARI and general correspondence. The second is organized by location, either by country, city, or specific seminar. The third contains correspondence specific to several publications, including Aportes and Mundo Nuevo.
Subseries 2: Manuscripts. The second Subseries contains articles for the numerous publications distributed by ILARI, as well as papers delivered at various conferences and seminars. There are both final and draft copies of these manuscripts, and are arranged alphabetically by author.
Subseries 3: Reports and Projects. Memoranda, forms, and reports exist for numerous projects and seminars. Many of these are activities reports for the countries involved in ILARI activities or on trip reports taken by members of the ILARI administration. There are also some general reports and memoranda involving publications and other aspects of ILARI.
Subseries 4: Financial Records. This Subseries specifically contains financial information about ILARI. Many of these records include budgets and expenditures, either by country or by specific publication. Subseries 1 and 3 may also contain financial information.
Preuves, a journal sponsored by the CCF which appeared monthly between 1951 and 1959, had a closer relationship to the CCF than other sponsored journals because it was published in Paris, the Congress' headquarters. Its editorial policy was characterized by three areas of special interest: European intellectuals in relation to emergent European community; the situation and problems of intellectuals in communist states; and colonial wars and the consequences of decolonization.
The Preuves papers consist primarily of correspondence, although they also include a substantial section of manuscript material. The correspondence is arranged alphabetically by subject with folders containing other material so designated, e.g., distribution statistics, newsletters, memoranda, etc. The original order was preserved where possible; hence, some correspondence is arranged alphabetically and some chronologically.
Major correspondents include the Editorial Committee, consisting of François Bondy (political and literary director of Preuves, as well as director of publications for the Congress), Jean Bloch-Michel (literary editor and director-general of Censure, another CCF publication), and Jacques Carat (editor-in-chief and general administrator). Extensive correspondence of Louis Mercier Vega, editorial secretary, is also included. The Preuves papers also contain records of affiliate organizations such as "Amis de Preuves" (a book club), "Amis de la Liberté" (the French CCF group whose name was changed in the 1960's to "Cercles Pour la Liberté de la Culture") and the "Mardis de Preuves" (a Tuesday night debate society). These groups comprised a support network for the journal, contributing financial aid beyond revenues derived from subscriptions.
All manuscripts are arranged alphabetically by author's last name, preserving the original order of a major block of manuscripts. However, some manuscripts were originally ordered by the issue in which they appeared. These groups of manuscripts were broken up and integrated into the alphabetical sequence. Titles of manuscripts where listed indicate the presence of two or more manuscripts by a single author. Corrected galley proofs are filed with the author's manuscripts.
This series contains correspondence to and from Edward Shils. This series is divided into four small subseries, which relate to the series to which the correspondence relates. Within each subseries, correspondence is arranged alphabetically by topic or by person.
Series I: Administrative Records, include membership and registration lists in addition to information on permanent council meetings, panel topics, grants, travel and hotel arrangements, translators, and preparations for future conferences.
Series II: Correspondence, includes abstracts for papers, papers, orders for papers, registrations and general correspondence.
Series III: Materials for conference packets, includes drafts, letters, and mock ups for brochures, posters and publicity. The completed conference packet is also included.
Series IV contains research materials and information on other anthropological conferences.
Series V: Cultural Programs includes materials about the opera, Tamu Tamu by Gian Carlo Menotti, and the American Folk Concert arranged by Alan Lomax specifically for the conference.
Series VI: Youth for Mankind, contains correspondence, organizational and publicity materials for the conference for high school students in the summer of 1973.
Series VII: contains photographs of the conference participants and press releases.
Series VIII contains materials regarding publication of conference materials and proceedings, including correspondence from publishers, editors and authors, abstracts, conference papers, original drafts and the Proceeding for World Anthropology Publications.
Series IX contains posters, press materials and charts.
Series X contains reel to real tapes, cassette tapes and cds of recorded conference panels.
Series XI contains personnel and financial material to which access is restricted for fifty years.
The O'Gorman Mahon Papers comprise some three thousand documents, the personal records of Charles James Patrick Mahon (ca1800-1891), a flamboyant figure in nineteenth-century Irish politics. He styled himself "The O'Gorman Mahon," using his mother's maiden name and his surname in this title reminiscent of the Irish chieftains. The first and largest part of the papers (boxes 1-7) consists largely of correspondence received by Mahon during the years from 1824 to 1891, but includes also several drafts of letters from Mahon. The correspondence is arranged chronologically. The second segment of the collection (boxes 7-9) contains materials from court cases in which Mahon was involved, documents pertaining to various business ventures, a letter-book, diary (1870-1874), passport, election posters (etc.), and two scrapbooks of newspaper clippings, mainly about the Irish political issues in which Mahon was involved.
Some of Mahon's numerous correspondents include: Ellen Courtenay, Daniel O'Connell, Ferdinand de Lesseps, Lord Palmerston, Ann Choquet, John Adams-Acton, Henry Cardinal Manning, Captain William O'Shea, Lord Francis Conyngham, Charles Stewart Parnell, William Gladstone, John Redmond, James O'Kelly, T.P. O'Connor, and G.O. Trevelyan.
The collection also includes a series of letters and a prison diary from Melville White, who appealed to Mahon for help in securing his release while Mahon was visiting Peru. Another large body of documents in the collection pertains to a venture Mahon was involved in to establish the Anglo-Prussian Bank. Letters from Mahon's ward, Ann Choquet, makes up a significant portion of the collections as does correspondence from the sculptor John Adams-Acton and his wife Jeanie, a writer. Adams-Acton was supposedly commissioned by Mahon to execute a bust of Pope Leo XIII. When Mahon collection was first organized it contained one of the largest known bodies of letter of Captain William O'Shea.
Perhaps the most noteworthy segment of the correspondence is the group of nine letters from Charles Stewart Parnell, dated from 1880 to 1888, including three written from Kilmainham Prison. In addition, there are three drafts of letters from Mahon to Parnell, including one of a reply to a telegram sent by Parnell. It was written after the O'Shea divorce proceedings had been completed and Parnell was attempting to reassert his authority in the party.
The Sidney W. Mandel English Legal Documents Collection contains miscellaneous English legal documents collected by the Chicago attorney during his travels in England. Interested in the similarities between modern day American legal terminology and that of the English courts, Mandel assembled a variety of documents including mortgages, leases, wills, and marriage settlements. The collection spans the sixteenth through twentieth centuries, but the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries are best represented, with a majority of the documents originating in London and in the counties surrounding and to the south of the capital. Most of the manuscripts are inscribed on parchment, with many bearing well-preserved seals.
The documents in the collection are arranged chronologically, oversized documents have been placed at the end of the collection.
The Mathematical Club Records contain programs of meetings (1893-1894), and notes on lectures delivered (1896-1903). The collection also includes programs from the Junior Mathematical Club (1905-1941).
The Fred Matthews Papers consist of letters solicited by Fred Matthews while researching his study of Robert E. Park, Quest for an American Sociology: Robert E. Park and the Chicago School. Correspondents include Saul Alinsky, Nels Anderson, Harold D. Lasswell, Winifred Raushenbush, Margaret Park Redfield, and Leslie A. White.
The collection contains a detailed personal journal, correspondence, research materials, and drafts of several books. It is divided into 7 Series.
Series I, Personal, contains personal items, biographical information and curriculum vitae, arranged alphabetically.
Series II, Correspondence, contains general correspondence, arranged alphabetically by correspondent, and a collection of greeting cards arranged chronologically.
Series III, University of Chicago, contains material from McCaul's time as a professor at the University. It is divided into two subseries. Subseries 1, Administrative, contains memoranda relating to a dean search and other Education Department and general University business. In addition, the series contains collected flyers, newsletters, memoranda, and other material reflecting and discussing the political climate on the U of C campus in the late 1960s. Much of the material has to do with the 1969 student sit-in in the University Administration building, the University's Kalven Report, and subsequent disciplinary actions taken against students. Subseries 2, Teaching, contains course materials – largely reading lists, article photocopies, and bibliographic notes.
Series IV, Research, contains notes, photocopies and transcriptions of source material (mostly correspondence of and concerning John Dewey), and other research materials not housed with particular book or article drafts. It also includes articles by others which clearly related to McCaul's research interests, and the typescripts of two autobiographical works by Margaret A. Haley.
Series V, Writings and Speeches, contains book and article manuscripts, texts of speeches and talks, notes, correspondence relating to specific works, and some research material. Material is arranged alphabetically by the title of the work, and material for each work is arranged chronologically. One of McCaul's large-scale works, The Black Struggle for Public Schooling in Nineteenth Century Illinois, had several working titles. Material relating to this book is labelled and alphabetized according to the working title on the manuscript, typescript, correspondence, or original folder. The final title is also indicated in the folder headings. In many cases, McCaul's files and correspondence merely referred to the work as [The] Struggle for Schooling; material so labelled retains that labelling here.
Series VI, Microfilm, contains a microfilm roll of what appears to be correspondence and portrait photographs of McCaul.
Series VII, Restricted, contains evaluative material pertaining to McCaul's students, restricted for 80 years from date of creation. It also contains McCaul's personal journal: roughly 9 boxes' worth of loose-leaf typed pages and carbon copies detailing his activities and preoccupations as a professor in the mid-1960s. Among the journal pages McCaul placed clippings, booklets, memos, and other materials. The journal is restricted until 2025.
This collection consists of reports, correspondence, financial material, and other administrative records from the Department of Meteorology, with a concentration of material dating from the mid- to late-1940s. Most of the material originated in the department's instrument laboratory, and is related to the department's research and development contracts with the United States Army and Navy. The projects represented were conducted during and after World War II, and deal with instruments for predicting and measuring air turbulence, humidity, dew point, and winds. Also included are departmental meeting minutes, files on the department's radio station, and records related to the purchase, maintenance and location of meteorological equipment.
The Marvin Mirsky Papers include notes on literature and cinema, course materials, articles, and documents from discussion groups and trips. The collection is divided into seven series.
Series I: Literature contains notes taken by Mirsky on a broad range of literature, including some plays. It also contains articles, book reviews, discussion points, and some course materials relating to specific texts and authors. Documents in this series date from 1950 to 2014 and are organized alphabetically by authors’ surnames.
Series II: Cinema consists of Mirsky’s notes, as well as collected articles and reviews pertaining to cinema and film. The series covers a range of genres and includes many well-known directors and popular films. The materials in this series date from 1990 to2011. It is organized alphabetically by directors’ surnames.
Series III: Course Materials contains documents pertaining to Mirsky’s teaching career. The series contains notes, reading lists, course proposals and schedules, correspondence with students and administrators, examination templates, and paper assignments. This series includes courses in English, Fine Arts, Humanities, and Literature, which are organized by topic. It also contains materials from courses on specific authors and literary themes. Series III also includes some course materials and correspondence not directly affiliated with the University of Chicago, including materials from Indiana University. The materials in Series III date from 1954-2014.
Series IV: Reading and Film Groups consists of materials from community discussion groups on literature and film led by Marvin Mirsky. It includes discussion notes, correspondence, mailing lists and member directories, reading lists, schedules, and articles. This series dates from 1964 to 2012. It is organized by group name.
Series V: Articles consists of assorted newspaper and magazine articles, as well as book reviews. They are organized by topic, and date from 1957 to 2011.
Series VI: Personal contains Marvin Mirsky’s personal papers, including correspondence, notes, paper drafts, and literary analysis papers written by Mirsky. This series also includes a handwritten poetry sketchbook. The materials in this series date from 1941 to 2013.
Series VII contains restricted student materials that are closed for eighty years from their date of creation. Restricted until 2048.
The bulk of the material dates from 1940 to 1990. Morgan was a prolific writer and photographer; his journal, correspondence and photographs make up the majority of the collection. He also preserved many of his notes and notebooks, as well as his star charts, star spectra, observation cards and astronomical tables and calculations. The divisions between the series are not strict and the subjects overlap in the series divisions. When possible the original folder names were preserved.
The papers have been divided into ten series: I. Journals, II. Correspondence, III. Research, IV. Symposia, Conferences and Workshops, V. Administration and Organizations, VI. Teaching and Counseling, VII. General, VIII. Photography, IX. Oversize, and X. Restricted.
The series contains more than 250 notebooks. For more than thirty years Morgan wrote regularly, on average, between three or four times a week. The notebooks are in excellent condition and usually contain newspaper clippings, notes, and photographs related to the writings. The main objective of the diary was to provide Morgan with a self-counsel, a kind of self psychoanalysis. Nonetheless, the journal contains numerous entries in which the author relates different astronomical problems, his research concerns, and his research methods. The journals are also rich in artwork, as well as movie and book reviews, and philosophical musings.
This series contains most of the files related to Morgan's research in astronomy.
Subseries 1 and 3 contain Morgan's research and observation notebooks and the tables and calculations he created. Spectra, Observation cards, Sky Maps, and general graphic material are grouped together in Subseries 2, "Graphic Material."
Subseries 4, Research and Scholarly Writings includes research materials collected by Morgan, including papers by other scientists. Subseries 5, Publications contains notes, manuscripts and offprints of his own writings.
This series documents Morgan's service as director of the Yerkes Observatory, editor of the Astrophysical Journal, faculty of the University of Chicago, and mayor of the town of William's Bay, Wisconsin.
It is likely that most of these photos were taken by Morgan. The series also contains some files of older photographic portraits of other Yerkes astronomers, as well as other early Yerkes memorabilia. Most of the photography is artistic and was kept in no particular order. This series shows the amazing work of an unknown photographer.
The Thomas J. Morgan papers comprise 1 linear foot of material that covers the period 1891-1939. The papers contain correspondence concerning The Provoker, Party correspondence, drafts of committee resolutions and statements with which Morgan was associated. They also include drafts of speeches and articles by Morgan, miscellaneous clippings, journals and publications reflecting Morgan’s activities in the Socialist Labor Party and politics in general, as well as Morgan’s diverse public welfare interests. A list of names of correspondents for the files identified as Party correspondence (Folders 4 to 6) has been compiled.
Ms 1003, A Chronicle of Political Events in Venice to 1618 and History of Venetian Nobility, is probably an eighteenth century copy of an earlier work. It formed part of the library of Count Demetrius Minotto (1856-1920.)
Contents:
Prologo, pp. 1-2
Chronicle, pp. 3-107
Segue l'Origine Delle Famiglie Venete Nobili Aggregate di Tempo in Tempo Per (?)enemeristi, pp. 107-260.
Tavola Delle Ricco Pazioni e Ribellioni, pp. 261-262.
Ragualgio del Tradimento Machinato contro la Innocenza della Republica di Venezia da Ministri Spagnoli, pp. 263-267.
Contemporary paper binding. Text in Italian.
An English translation of Gregory of Nyssa's (circa 335-394) Of the framing of man, a theological treatise concerning man's creation and nature. Seven leaves of text at the end are written in a different hand and inverted, containing a commentary on the Ten Commandments; these notes are identified as possibly being written by a former owner of the codex: Joseph Crouch.
Bound in leather-backed marbled boards.
Text in English.
Foliation: [i-vi] 206 leaves.
Part of Petrus Comestor's (a Biblical scholar active in the 12th century), Scholastic History (Historia scholastica), a preeminent Biblical text from the late middle ages. A chronicle of the Biblical period from Genesis through the end of the New Testament's Book of Acts. The manuscript is organized in accordance with the order of the Biblical books themselves, but omitting books of no obvious significance for the reconstruction of Biblical history. Includes minor rubrication.
Compare to University of Chicago Codex Ms 120, another manuscript of the same text.
Bound in gold-stamped leather over boards, probably the original binding.
Text in Latin.
Foliation: 269 leaves.
The collection, Codex 1445, consists of 96 fascicles written in the early 19th century compiled by an unknown witness to Teresa Bandettini’s productions. The poems are numbered and titled. Fascicle 88 is missing from our collection.
The collection was assembled, as stated in the first person in the Preface, by one of Bandettini’s patrons and hosts, whose house in Viareggio was a regular venue for the poet’s improvisations in 1794 and 1795. The unnamed compiler relates that on those occasions several identical transcriptions of poems n. 36-40 were taken simultaneously by different copists, evidently eager to capture Bandettini’s famed impromptu creations in the flow of the performance. The compiler endeavours to give as complete a transcription as possible, adding material as later performances occurred in the following years, giving an account of other occasions (in Perugia, Pisa, Livorno, etc) in which other poems where performed and transcribed, redacting a substantial gathering of ‘Frammenti’ (poems for which a complete transcription could not be obtained, not even through Tommaso Trenta with whom the compiler appears to have been acquainted), and regretting that much material escaped transcription - due partly to the absence of scribes at times, and partly to Bandettini’s personal dislike for the process.
As described in the original dealer description the extent of the collection compares favourably with the size of the Bandettini papers in the Lucca Archive and, most significantly, with Ms Vat. Lat. 10218 in the Vatican Library. The Vatican manuscript gathers dozens of Bandettini’s poems in a collection compiled between 1776 and 1800 by the secretary of the literary Academy of Lucca Tommaso Trenta (Artinio Dionisiade in Arcadia).
The notebook is in octavo format and contains 114 leaves, mostly foliated, with some pages left blank. The leaves are paper in a contemporary leather binding with gold border decorations on front and back covers. Text is in English with some writing in Greek (e.g. on page 169) and Hebrew (e.g. 205). Notes are in the author’s hand, except few comments in a very shaky script (e.g. on 30, 84). The notes for each sermon begin with a biblical quotation, followed by musings on its meaning in the original context and a paragraph headed “Application,” which aims to demonstrate the continued relevance of the biblical teachings.
The manuscript is in quarto format and consists of 228 leaves of coarse thick paper with several watermarks (e.g. fols. 60, 81, 129, 151, 166, 168). Text is rubricated and written in two columns by one hand, except for the Latin hymns on fols. 226-228, written in a later hand.
The subdivisions of the text are:
I. St. Pietro Damiani, “Commendatio de vita solitaria,” fols. 1-3
II. St. Augustine, 51 homilies, fols. 3-128
III. St. Ephraim of Syria, short sermons including “De beatitude animarum,” “De praemiis beatorum,” “De paenitentia,” “De die Judicii,” “De computatione,” “De virginitate animae,” and “Oratio,” fols. 129-157
IV. Anonymous, “De virtutibus” and “De septem vitiis principalibus,” fols. 158-172
V. St. Cyril, Bishop of Jerusalem, “De miraculis S. Hieronymi,” fols. 173-194
VI. Ps.-St. Bernard of Clairvaux, “Meditatione,” fols. 196-218
VII. Hugo of St. Victor, “De institutione novitiorum” chapters 1-11, fols. 218-225
VIII. Texts of a few Latin hymns in a later hand, fols. 226-228
The Distinctiones of Gerardus of Siena, including prologue and table of contents, together with Egidio Colonna, supposed author, Errores philosophorum Aristotelis Averrois Avicenne Algazelis Alkandi Rabi Moises, and the Letter of Lentulus to the Senate. Includes one illumination.
Fair copy of excerpts from Saint Jerome's commentary on Isaiah, which once belonged to the the Carthusians near Erfurt. The codex contains the following texts: Registrum in 18 libros explanationum sancti Ieronimi in Ysayam (fols. 1r-30r); Ex Dictis Sancti Ieronimi Super Ysaiam (fols. 31r-416r); Ex libro 8. Explanationum Beati Ieronimi Super Ysaiam Quaedam Notabilia (fols. 417r-418v.) Includes red initials and marginalia.
In the De homine, the second part of the "Summae de creaturis," St. Albert, the German Dominican philosopher, analyzes the Aristotelian definitions of the soul. He discusses its vegetative, sensitive, and rational properties and operations. A treatment of the five senses leads him to consider how knowledge is acquired. After discussing the nature of the speculative intellect and reason, Albert takes up such topics as the existence of the soul and the nature of man's free will.
From the Berlin Collection acquired in 1891. Previously in the library of the Marquis Taccone, treasurer of the king of Naples in the late eighteenth century.
A copy of the complete text of an epic poem by Lucan (Marcus Annaeus Lucanus) (circa 39-65). This epic portrays the war between Julius Caesar (circa 100 BCE- 44 BCE) and Pompey the Great (circa 106 BCE-48 BCE), with scholia (marginal notes) for the first three books. Includes rubrication. 18th century Italian half-calfskin, gold-tooled, and painted. Text in Latin.
Pietro da Verona (Petrus Veronensis, also known as Saint Peter of Verona, also known as Saint Peter Martyr) was a Dominican friar and Inquisitor (b. 1206- d. 1252). This codex is the author's own copy, in his own hand, of a commentary on Books IV and V of the decretels of Pope Gregory IX, approved by the ecclesiastical censor Giovanni Francesco Comb[edi?] at Naples in 1519. These books treat on betrothal and marriage (De sponsalibus et matrimoniis) and criminal procedure (De accusationibus, inquisitionibus et denuntiationibus). Original stamped pigskin Text in Latin
Moral texts attributed (probably spuriously) to the stoic philosopher Seneca (ca. 4 BCE-65 CE): De quatuor virtutibus, De remediis fortuitorum, and Ex epistolis Senecae (which may be genuine). Bound in modern vellum. Text in Latin.
A theological treatise by Proclus Diadochus (412 –485), a Neoplatonist philosopher. This treatise, "The Elements of Theology" discusses the spiritual and physical.
Contemporary pigskin vellum binding.
Text in Greek.
53 leaves.
A much-published fifteenth century Italian recension of Pope Gregory the Great's Morali, or "Treatise on Morals." A fair copy in a single unidentified hand, this codex contains a table of contents but no index or marginal notations.
Bound in modern half-leather.
Text in Italian.
225 leaves.
At the end of the satirical opening dedication, "To John Doe and Richard Roe," the author signed his name and indicated the time and place of composition: "63 Edgeware Road/Decr 1823." The printed parish records of St. George's Church, Hanover Square, which is in the vicinity of Edgeware Road, London, list a George Manning, who in November 1829 received a license to marry Anna Heurtley. This is probably the George Manning who wrote this text, but nothing more is known about him. Manning suggests in the preface that he is employed in the legal profession, perhaps as a clerk or secretary.
Adventures of a Half Guinea is modeled on Charles Johnstone's Chrysal; or, the Adventures of a Guinea which appeared in four volumes from 1760 to 1765, and was reprinted several times. Chrysal featured a gold guinea coin as "narrator" of several satirical tales of how it passed from the pockets of one greedy man to another.
The Manning work is a rough draft, in the author's hand, with many corrections and erasures. It is very incomplete, with parts out of sequence. Either Manning did not finish these chapters, or we do not have all that he wrote.
Folio, 41 x 26 cm.
126 leaves, fully foliated in pencil. An older foliation in ink runs as follows: 18-72, 308-309, 197-225, which correspond to the penciled foliation of 34-72, 90-91, and 96-124. Presumably leaves formerly numbered 73-196 and 226-307 are missing.
Modern blue-cloth binding of the University f Chicago Library. (T. Bentley Duncan, 1973)
An abridgement of Burchardus' description of the Holy Land, by an unknown author. This piece is possibly a fragment of a larger manuscript held by the University of Ghent.
The manuscript is assembled in quarto format with 136 paper leaves in a half-vellum binding with marbled boards. Each page is ruled with 24 lines. The text is written by one hand in brown ink. Each item is numbered in a red pencil which has also annotated letter 33 (on fol. 50r). 17 of the items are marked by bookmarks inserted by a later owner, with brief notes in French about the contents of the marked items.
The text consists of 94 items, mostly copies letters written or received by Jean Marie Cahusac. The items are organized chronologically with dates ranging from August 30, 1806 to July 7, 1836. The contents include accounts of Cahusac's travels throughout Europe, the United States, and the French West Indies; Cahusac's opinions on governance and religion in those regions; personal letters to family members and friends; petitions to political figures, including notably the Marquis de La Fayette; and finally, a letter to King Louis Philippe.
Title page (1r)
1: Fleurance, le 30 aout, 1806. à Mr. Darbas, à New York (états-unis D’amérique.) (2r-3v)
2: 9 Novembre, 1807. à Gregoire Cabusac, mon frere, élève de L’école Polytechnique, à Paris. (4r-6r)
3: 10 Mars, 1808. au Même. (6v-8r)
4: 25 Juillet, 1808. au Même. (8r-10r)
5: Septembre, 1808. Lettre écrite pour mon père, à son excellence le comte de Cessac, ministre d’état, Gouverneur de l’école impériale Polytechnique, à Paris. (10v-11r)
6: 28 Octobre, 1808. Lettre écrite pour mon Frère, élève de l’école Polytechnique, à Monsieur Romieu, professeur des mathématiques au Licée de Toulouse. (11v-12r)
7: 14 Novembre, 1808. Lettre écrite pour le même, à Son excellence Le Comte de Cessac, ministre D’état, Gouverneur de L’école Polytechnique, à Paris. (12v-13v)
8: Décembre, 1808. Lettre écrite pour le même, à Mr. Romieu, professeur de mathématiques, au Lycée de Toulouse. (14r-14v)
9: 29 Mars, 1809. Lettre écrite pour mon père, à son excellence le comte de Cessac, ministre d’état, Gouverneur de l’école impériale Polytechnique. (14v-15v)
10: Juillet, 1809. au Même. (16r)
11: 1er aout, 1809. à Monsieur le Conseiller d’état, Directeur Général de la Caille D’amortissement, à Paris. (17v)
12: Novembre, 1810. à Monsieur le receveur des Domaines Nationaux, à auets. (18r-19v)
13: 19 octobre, 1812. à Monsieur Lébe, négociant, à Bordeaux. (20r-20v)
14: 6 février, 1813. à Monsieur Le Greffier de la Justice de Paix du Canton de Sr. Marlory. (20v-21v)
15: 4 mars, 1813. à Monsieur Durban, Négociant à Charlestown, Caroline du Sud, états-unis D’amérique. (22r-23r)
16: Aout, 1813. à Made. Vignolles, ma belle Sœur, à Sa Campagne de Bordères. (23r-24v)
17: 27 Decembre, 1813. à D. P. (25r-25v)
18: 1er mai, 1814. à Mr. Lébe, négt. à Bordeaux. (26r-28r)
19: 9 Septembre, 1814. Pétition adressée à MM. Le Président et les Membres de la Chambre des Députés des Départemens, à Paris. (28r-29r)
20: 16 octobre, 1814. à Monsieur Raynouard, membre de L’institut, et de La Chambre des Députés des Départemens, à Paris. (29v-32r)
21: Rapport de Mr. Rigaud de Lisle, au Nom de la commission des Pétitions de la chambre des Députés, sur la Pétition des Citoyens de Fleurance du 9 Sep'bre dernier. Séance du VI Novembre 1814. (32r-33r)
22: Janvier, 1815. à Monsieur Le Procureur du Roi près le Tribunal civil du W. arrond. à Lectoure. (33v-36r)
23: 1er février, 1815. au Même. (36r-37r)
24: Décision de Monseigneur Le Chancelier de France. (37r)
25: mai, 1815. Observations indéxées par moi à la Suite de mon Vôte sur L'acte additionnel aux constitutions de L'empire, présenté, le 22 avril dernier, à L'acceptation du Peuple Français. (37v-38r)
26: aôut, 1815. à Monsieur Rouquette, négociant, a La Nouvelle Orléans. (Louisiana.) (38r-40r)
27: octobre, 1816. au Même. [A note at the bottom of 42r explains that the writer found out after sending this letter that its intended recipient had drowned himself in the Mississippi River.] (40r-42r)
28: 31 Juillet 1817. Pétition à Monsieur Le Préfet du Département du Gers. (Mr. de Lascours.) (42v-44r)
29: 15 mai, 1819. à Mon Neveu Lassale, à Bordeaux. (44v-47r)
30: 25 Janvier, 1820. Pétition à la Chambre des Députés des Départemens, à Paris. (47v-49r)
31: 25 Janvier, 1820. à Monsieur Le Marquis de Lafayette, membre de la Chambre des Deputés, à Paris. (49v-50r)
32: 25 Janvier, 1820. à Monsieur Le Exacteur du Constitutionnel, à Paris. (50v-51r)
33: Copie de La Lettre que m'a écrite Mr. de Lafayette, membre de La Chambre des Députés, au Sujet de La Pétition que je lui adressai le 25 Janvier dernier. Paris, la 13 février, 1820. [The note preceding the date is underlined in red pencil with a note that reads, "inédit"] (50r-50v)
34: 30 Juillet, 1820. Lettre écrite pour ma femme à Made. Vignolles, Sa Sœur, à Sa Campagne de Bordères. (51r-52v)
35: 15 aout, 1822. à Monsieur Le Curé de Brugnens. (52v-53v)
36: 18 février, 1824. à Monsieur Percin, à Fleurance. (54r-54v)
Quatre Lettres écrites de Bordeaux. (55r)
37: 1re Lettre, du 7 mai, 1824. (55r-56r)
38: 2e Lettre, du 13 mai, 1824. (56v-57v)
39: 3e Lettre, du 21 mai, 1824. (58r-60r)
40: 4e et dernière Lettre de Bord.x du 25 mai, 1824. (60r-62v)
41: 6 Juillet, 1825. à Monsieur Momejean, prêtre, ancien curé constitutionnel, retire à Fleurance. (63r-65v)
42: 3 octobre, 1825. à Monsieur Moliés, conseiller à la cour royale D'agen. (65v-67r)
43: D.bre 1825. à Monsieur Le Préfet du Département du Gers. (67r-68v)
44: 14 Janvier, 1826. à Monsieur Le Vicomte de Suseau, Sous Préfet du 2e. arrondissement, à Lecloure. (69r-70v)
45: 12 mai, 1826. à Madame de Panebeuf, à Brechan. (71r-72r)
46: 14 mai, 1826. à La Même. (72v-73v)
47: 16 mai, 1826. à Monsieur Le Comte de Lary Latour (74r-74v)
48: 7 Janvier, 1827. à Monsieur Molié, conseiller à la cour Royale D'agen. (74v-76r)
49: Janvier, 1827. à Monsieur Le Curé Moméjean, à Fleurance. (76v-77r)
50: 10 aout, 1828. à Monsieur Molié, conseiller à la cour Royale D'agen. (77v-78r)
51: Belair, le 22 Juillet, 1829. à Monsieur Le Juge de paix du Canton de Fleurance. (78v-79r)
52: Septembre, 1829. Pétition à Monsieur Le Préfet du Département du Gers. (79v-80r)
53: 21 octobre, 1829. à Madame Neuve Vignolles, à Bordeaux. (80r-82r)
54: 3 Novembre, 1829. à La Même. (82v-84r)
55. 13 Novembre, 1829. à La Même. (84v-86v)
56. 24 Décembre 1929. à La Même. (86v-88r)
57. 10 Janvier, 1830. à La Même. (88r-90r)
58. 29 Janvier, 1830. à La Même. (90r-91v)
59. 4 mars, 1830. à La Même. (92r-95r)
60. 8 mars, 1830. à La Même. (95v-97v)
61. 5 Septembre 1830. à Monsieur Le Général Lafayette, Commandant Général des Gardes Nationalles de France. (97-99r)
62. 7 Septembre, 1830. Pétition que j'ai été chargé de rédiger et qui a été adressée à Messieurs Le Président et Les Membres de la Chambre des Députés de France, à Paris. (99v-101r)
63. 13 Septembre, 1830. à Mr. Le Garde des Sceaux, ministre Secrétaire D'état au Département de la Justice, à Paris. [The text on fols. 101v and 102r is crossed out, and fols. 101 and 102 have been stuck together with a red adhesive. They remain partially stuck together and torn.]. (101r-103r)
64: 20 Novembre, 1830. à Monsieur Bouet, juge d'instruction près le Tribunal du 2e arrondissement, à Lectoure. (103v-104r)
65: 30 Novembre, 1830. au Même. (104v-106r)
66: 4 Mars, 1831. à Monsieur Le Maire de la ville de Fleurance, président du Bureau de Bienfaisance du Canton de Fleurance. (106r-107v)
67: 27 mai, 1831. à Monsieur Le ministre des finances, à Paris. (108r)
68: 11 juin, 1831. à Monsieur Bouet, juge d'instruction à Lectoure. (108v-109r)
69: 27 juillet, 1831. Le Commissaire ordonnateur du Bureau de Bienfaisance du Canton de Fleurance. à Monsieur Le Maire de la ville de Fleurance, président du dit Bureau. (109v-110r)
70: 4 aout, 1831. à Monsieur L'administrateur du Trésor royal, chargé de la Direction des Cautionnemens. (110v)
71: 29 octobre 1831. à Monsieur Le Commandant de La Garde Nationale de Fleurance. (111r)
72: 11 Janvier 1832. à Monsieur Vignolles, neveu, à Bordeaux. (111v-112v)
73: 17 mars, 1832. à Monsieur Le Maire de la ville de Fleurance, Président du Bureau de Bienfaisance. (113r-114r)
74: 12 octobre, 1832. à Monsieur Morlau, mon beau père, au St. Puy. (114v-115r)
75: 19 octobre 1832. à Monsieur Morlau, mon beau père, au St. Puy. (115v-117r)
76: Janvier 1833. à Monsieur Morlau, mon beau père, au St. Puy. (117v-119v)
77: 28 fevrier, 1833. à Monsieur Justin Moli, agent de change, à Condons. (119v-122r)
78: 8 avril, 1833. au Même. (122r-123r)
79: 1er Juillet, 1834. à Monsieur Bouet, juge d'instruction, à Lectoure. (123r-124r)
80: 2 aout, 1834. à Madame Bouet, à Lectoure. (124r-124v)
81: 6 aôut, 1834. à Monsieur Bouet, juge d'instruction, à Lectoure. (125r)
82: 6 aôut 1834. à Monsieur Le Procureur du Roi près le Tribunal de Lectoure. (125v)
83: 8 aôut, 1834. à Monsieur Sylvain Dupuy, à Fleurance. (126r)
84: 12 aôut, 1834. à Monsieur Drouillard, à Condons. (126v)
85: 17 Septembre, 1834. à Monsieur Vignolles, neveu, Négociant à Bordeaux. (127r-128r)
86: 30 Septembre, 1834. à Monsieur Drouillard, à Condons. (128r-129r)
87: 30 Septembre, 1834. à Monsieur Bouet, juge d'instruction, à Lectoure. (129r-130r)
88: 11 octobre, 1834. à Madame Bouet, à Lectoure. (130r-131r)
89: Discours prononcé, à ma première audience de Juge de Paix, le 11 aôut 1834, aux Justiciables présents à la de. audience. (131v-132r)
90: 12 Janvier, 1835. à Monsieur Vignolles, neveu, négt. à Bordeaux. (132v-133r)
91: 1er Juin, 1835. à Mr. Vignolles Neveu, Négt. à Bordeaux. (133v-134v)
92: 23 Janvier, 1836. au Même. (134v-135r)
93: 28 février 1836. à Madame Neuve Vignolles, à Bordeaux. (135v-136r)
94: 7 Juillet, 1836. adresse à Sa Majesté Louis Philippe, roi des Francais. (136r-136v)
Antiphonarium for Matins, a collection of Gregorian chants, beginning with invitatory tones followed by antiphons for commons of saints, 2 hymns, and texts for Psalms and Canticle for Sunday Lauds. On parchment, with some illuminated letters. Probably 16th or 17th century, written in Spain.
Contemporary foliation: 1-59, 222-230, 204-218. Square notation on five-line staff. In tooled leather with brass corners and center bosses. Text in Latin.
The Marshall Sahlins Papers consist of research notes and data pertaining to the Hawaiian Makahiki festival and James Cook's voyage to Hawaii (1778-1779).
Series I, Administrative, consists of documents related to the Department’s administrative processes, including departmental reports and correspondence, meeting minutes, the relations with other University units and external parties, such as the Fromm Music Foundation. The folders in this series are arranged chronologically, except when multiple folders formed a thematic group. Series II, Publications and Publicity, contains the Department’s publications, such as booklets, guides, calendars, and press releases, as well as extensive documentation of the press coverage of music programs. The latter is represented by newspaper clippings. The folders are first grouped thematically and then arranged chronologically. Researchers are also encouraged to consult Series VI for the scrapbooks that contain newspaper clippings about the music programs. Series III, Events, comprises programs, flyers, posters, and invitation cards for a variety of music performances across decades. The series is divided into two subseries. Subseries 1, Performances and Programs General, brings together materials about miscellaneous performances and programs staged at the University. The folders in this subseries are grouped according to general types of the events or other unifying features. Each folder group is arranged chronologically in itself. Subseries 2, University Ensembles, consists of materials that document performances or performance series by various music ensembles belonging to or affiliated with the University of Chicago. In this subseries, certain folders belonging to the same ensemble are grouped together. The folders and folder groups are arranged chronologically. For more on music events, researchers are encouraged to consult Series VI, Oversize, for the scrapbooks that contain flyers, programs, and posters. Series IV, Notated Music and Libretti, is arranged chronologically. Series V, Photographs, consists of photographs of the Department’s faculty and music performances, and is arranged chronologically. Series VI, Oversize, contains several scrapbooks. The scrapbooks, created over the course of sixty years, bring together newspaper clippings, programs, flyers, and posters of music events. They are arranged chronologically. Series VII, Restricted, consists of documents that contain evaluative student materials. These documents are restricted for 80 years from the date of creation. The documents in this series are restricted for 80 years from date of creation.
This collection consists of press releases produced by the American Indian Press Association.
This collection represents the activities of the Community Board Training Project (CBTP) and of Native American Educational Services (NAES) College, CBTP's sponsoring organization. The collection forms part of the archives of Native American Educational Services. Materials in the collection focus on administration, programming, and work with other organizations. It is arranged in seven series, some of which are organized into topical sections. While the collection spans the years 1978-1995, most of the material dates from 1980-1984. The collection is closely related to the records of Chicago American Indians Community Organization Conference (CAICOC), which was itself an outgrowth of CBTP.
Series I: Administrative, contains the administrative records of CBTP, including quarterly reports, student records, correspondence, information generated by the Advisory Board, evaluation of the program and training needs assessment, and a record of the Chicago American Indian Community Service Directory. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series II: Courses, contains course materials generated by the courses, workshops and seminars produced by CBTP. These courses included the American Indian Bilingual/Bicultural Teacher Training Program, courses on economics and development, finance and management, education and human services and personal competence. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series III: Financial, contains materials relating to funding and grants obtained by the organization during the course of its programming. This series also includes some accounts payable and accounts receivable materials. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series IV: Program Development, includes materials which trace the historical development of the programs. It contains a great deal of information from 1980, the first full year of the program. Some of the materials included are proposals and other developmental documents. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series V: Organizations, provides a record of some of the federal, private, educational, and financial organizations which participated in the CBTP program, including organization information, requests for technical assistance and other information about the support provided by CBTP. This includes the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the American Indian Center. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series VI: Publications, Media, and Public Relations, contains various handbooks and manuals, and articles, as well as public relation information for organizations and individuals that offered resources and support for CBTP. It has been divided into several sections. The series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series VII: Restricted, contains student records from courses and seminars held by CBTP which are restricted for 80 years. This series has been arranged alphabetically.
Series VIII: Oversize, contains two examples of letterheads for the Chicago American Indian Community Organization Conference.
Series I contains the administrative records of Community Board Training Project. This includes meeting minutes, quarterly reports, student records, correspondence, information generated by the Advisory Board, evaluation of the program and training needs assessment, and a record of the Chicago American Indian Community Service Directory. This series also includes the mailing records of the CBTP office. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series II contains course materials generated by the courses, workshops and seminars produced by the Community Board Training Project. These courses included the American Indian Bilingual/Bicultural Teacher Training Program, courses on economics and development, finance and management, education and human services and personal competence. There are also study resources and workbooks for several seminars. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series III contains materials relating to funding and grants obtained by the organization during the course of its program. This series also includes some accounts payable and accounts receivable materials, which includes information and correspondence with several donating foundations and individuals. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series IV includes materials which trace the historical development of the Community Board Training Project and its programs. It contains a great deal of information from 1980, the first full year of the program, and the early eighties while the program was active. Some of the materials included are proposals and other developmental documents. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series V provides a record of some of the organizations which participated in the Community Board Training Project program, including organization information, requests for technical assistance and other information about the support provided by CBTP. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series VI contains various handbooks and manual, articles, and public relations information on funding organizations and individuals that supported the Community Board Training Project and used its resources. It has been divided into several sections, including office documents, evaluations, relations with funding organizations, handbooks and manuals, and publications from the Community Board Training Project. The series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series VII contains student records from courses and seminars held by the Community Board Training Project which are restricted for 80 years. This series has been arranged alphabetically.
Series VIII contains two examples of letterhead designs for the Chicago American Indian Community Organization Conference.
The David Beck materials are organized by series. The largest portion of the collection is in the category Administrative Materials and consists of materials related to NAES. Within each category the materials are arranged in alphabetical order.
Series I: Correspondence contains correspondence to and from David Beck regarding NAES College.
Series II: Administrative Materials includes documents related to NAES such as registration and blank administrative forms.
Series III: Course Preparation Material contains Beck’s research materials for his courses in addition to course proposals and syllabus for courses.
Series VI: Materials related to Conferences, Meetings, and Festivals contains preparation materials for gatherings in addition to materials handed out at the conferences.
Series V: A bibliographic material contains library printouts, reading lists and bibliographies.
Series VI: Essays include reprints by other scholars on subjects of community leadership.
Series VII: Grants materials include budgets, grant applications in addition to letters of congratulations and rejection.
Series VIII: A restricted material includes files for which access is restricted. Evaluations and recommendations have been restricted in compliance with University of Chicago policies.
This collection contains manuscripts and proofs of publications of the NAES College Press. It includes many materials related to Sol Tax and Robert Thomas, including a typescript for Sol Tax’s “The World View of Panajachel: A Guatemalan Indian Ethnography.”
The Robert W. Rietz Papers span the years 1876-1982, with the bulk of materials covering the period from 1950 through 1954. These materials reflect Rietz’s tenure at the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and include reports, scholarly papers, and conference proceedings, as well as a large collection of publications from Indian Reservations and other organizations working with American Indians in the 1950s and 1960s. The collection also includes official and personal correspondence and papers that bear testimony to the dynamic social and collective life of an Indian Reservation.
The collection is divided in four series. Series I (Fort Berthold Agency) constitutes the bulk of Rietz’s papers and is sub-divided chronologically in two subseries: the first (1876-1949) gathers materials prior to Rietz’s arrival. Subseries 2 (1950-1954) follows his time as community analyst and relocation officer. Common to both sub-series are materials pertaining to Indian Legislation, including petitions and hearings of Senate committees on Indian Affairs; Tribal Council documents, including committee meetings minutes, resolutions, and electoral processes; the education situation at the reservation, including school enrollment figures and training programs; and finally, the Garrison Dam project, from the negotiation leading up to the purchase of Indian land in the late 1940s to various studies conducted by the Missouri River Basin Investigation office. Subseries 2 presents the Agency’s bureaucracy more thoroughly, both within the reservation and in relation to the Bureau more broadly, and offers a number of research possibilities into the civic and community life of the reservation. Also included in this subseries are personal accounts on the shortcomings and successes of the Agency’s national relocation and assistance programs, data on Indian population, as well as the complete collection of the Agency’s News Bulletins and Daily News Sheets for these years.
Series II (Action Anthropology) contains ethnographic and anthropological material from the Tama/Fox project in Iowa and Forth Berthold, from the late 1940s to the early 1960s. Subseries 1 pertains to work led by Sol Tax among the Mesquakies and Fox Indians, conducted among others by Rietz, Fred Gearing, Eugene Fugle, and Lisa Peattie, and includes ethnographic material (field notes, manuscript drafts), publications, research proposals, and financial records. Subseries 2 is more strictly anthropological. Of particular relevance here are field notes by Robert Merrill, Edward Bruner, W. H. Brokaw, Ethel Nurge, and Rietz himself. In addition, this subseries includes genealogical charts of members of the Indian community, as well as Rietz’s professional and personal documents and correspondence from his years in Fort Berthold.
Series III contains materials pertaining to educational projects in which Rietz was directly involved, including the Summer Workshops on American Indian Affairs for American Indian College Students (1956-1962), the Canadian Indian Workshop at the University of Manitoba (1966), as well as Rietz’s teaching career in Illinois (1967-68). Also included are documents from Rietz’s tenure at the American Indian Center in Chicago directly related to educational projects as well as other community agencies dealing with Native American affairs, including but not limited to, the Clyde Warrior Institute in American studies, the American Friends Service Committee, the Carnegie Corporation for Cross-Cultural Education, the Chicago Indian Ministry, the American Indian Development center, and the University of Chicago Community Service Workshop.
Series IV consists of publications, organized thematically in six sub-series: subseries 1 contains official bulletins and newsletters published by Indian Reservations, including the neighboring agency of Fort Yates (“Standing Rock”) in North Dakota, or the Pine Ridge Bulletin, in South Dakota. These bulletins, collected during Rietz’s tenure at Fort Berthold and later in Chicago, include publications from Indian reservations across the country since the early 1950s to 1970; by itself, this is a valuable compilation of official materials published within the context of Indian reservations. Subseries 2 gathers Rietz’s collection of scientific publications, journals and articles organized alphabetically. Subseries 3 includes conference proceedings on Native American issues from the 1940s the late 1960s, as well as unpublished papers organized alphabetically by author. Subseries 4 consists of Rietz’s newspapers clippings, organized chronologically from the 1930s to 1970, and subseries 5 and 6 include Governmental and non-Governmental publications on Indian affairs, respectively. The bulk of these materials pertain to the Federal Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, as well as the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the Department of the Interior. State publications include for the most part documents issued by North and South Dakota state agencies. Finally, subseries 6 covers the national and local organizations dealing with Native American populations, from the 1940s to 1970, as well as some publications included posthumously.
This collection consists of Sol Tax's papers from his work for Native American Educational Services. The collection has been arranged into fourteen short series. All series have been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series I: American Indian Center, is composed mostly of board minutes for 1978-1980, as well as several reports and brochures in regards to the American Indian Center. Further references to this center are scattered through Tax's correspondence and papers in the American Indians and Chicago Indians series.
Series II: American Indian Chicago Conference 1961 (AICC), includes photocopies of drafts of the Declaration of Purpose, the originals of which are kept in the Smithsonian Archives.
Series III: American Indians, contains the bulk of Dr. Tax's Indian work, which contains mainly drafts and papers by students and colleagues. Dr. Tax evidently kept this material for reference in his own research and teaching. The series contains one folder on the National Indian Youth Council, which contains drafts of an undated proposal. Dr. Tax's own publications are found in this series, as well as in the Anthropology series. Some folders have been removed and filed separately in the Oversized Series due to their large size.
Series IV: Anthropology, contains material covering the span of Dr. Tax's career, with the bulk falling in the 1970s. The series contains mostly papers and drafts of other scholars, but it includes three folders of Dr. Tax's publications, including some drafts.
Series V: Carnegie Cross-Cultural Education Project, CCCE, contains several folders that include articles and other materials related to education, mostly from the 1960s, as well as reports from the project itself.
Series VI: Chicago Indians, contains copies of Dr. Tax's CAICOC plans, as well as correspondence dealing with Indian relocation in the 1950s and 1960s.
Series VII: Finding Aids, is comprised of two folders that contain acquisition lists, notes accompanying donations, and copies of Smithsonian and University of Chicago finding aids to Tax collections.
Series VIII: Fox Project, includes a documentary history of the project and some related letters and reports. The administrative folder contains financial records from the University of Chicago, including scholarship fund roles. The photographic plates of the documentary history of the Fox Project have been separated and moved to the Oversized series due to their size.
Series IX: Latin American, represents mostly Dr. Tax's early work in Mexico and Guatemala. However, later materials have been mixed into the folders, reflecting Dr. Tax's lifelong interest in Native peoples south of the United States.
Series X: Native American Educational Services, NAES, represents bits of administrative materials that Dr. Tax acquired concerning planning and operation of NAES. His files on the Community Board Training Project are also found here.
Series XI: Newberry Library, contains several folders made up almost entirely of published materials acquired by Dr. Tax.
Series XII: Newsletters/Newspapers, includes copies of newsletters and newspapers from the 1960s and 1970s published by or related to Native American affairs in North and South America.
Series XIII: Social Issues, represents Dr. Tax's interest and research in social issues other than American Indians, primarily education, urban poverty, and racism. It is divided into four subseries: Community Development, Education, Poverty, and Race and Ethnicity.
Series XIV: Oversized, contains material removed from other series and filed separately due to their size. It contains several maps and the negative plates of the Fox Project documentary history.
Series I contains materials dealing with the administrative records of the American Indian Center, mostly the minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors. It also includes several brochures for events hosted by the American Indian center and service reports. References to the American Indian Center is scattered throughout the remainder of the collection. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series II contains primarily materials dealing with invitations and lists of guests and presenters for the American Indian Chicago Conference. It also includes photocopies of the Declaration of Purpose.
Series III contains publications from many different sources on American Indian issues. This series also contains the majority of Dr. Tax's work, as well as drafts and papers by students and colleagues. There are also several project proposals and brochures for American Indian meetings contained in this series, as well as correspondence between Dr. Tax and other researchers. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series IV contains manuscripts and publications on anthropological issues. It contains the bulk of the rest of Dr. Tax's work presented in this collection, but is broader in nature than the American Indians series. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series V contains materials related to education in general and the Carnegie Cross-Cultural Education Project specifically. This includes correspondence with scholars and progress reports prepared by the Project. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series VI contains materials related specifically to Chicago Indians. This includes population distribution maps, directories of Indians in the area, brochures for local events, and newsletters written by local Native Americans. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series VII contains two folders that contain acquisition lists, notes accompanying donations, and copies of Smithsonian and University of Chicago finding aids to Tax collections. It has been arranged chronologically.
Series VIII contains articles, drafts, and correspondence related to the Fox Project, a study of the culture of the Fox and Sauk Indians. There are also drafts of papers and symposium papers. There is a copy of a documentary history of the Fox Project in this series, but the negative plates of this documentary have been relocated to the Oversized series due to their large size. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series IX contains materials related to Dr. Tax's interests in Mexico and Guatemala, as well as Central American Indians in general. This includes mainly article publications and newsletters about Central American Indians. There is also a great deal of correspondence about political and social issues in Central America related to Native Americans. This series has been organized alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series X contains primarily administrative materials related to the Native American Educational Services, mostly in its planning and operation. There is a great deal of material related to the Community Board Training Project, mostly proposals for funding or grants from various organizations. This series has been organized alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series XI contains mostly publications from the Newberry Library related to Native Americans. These are almost entirely publications acquired by Sol Tax for research. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series XII contains newspapers and newsletters published by or about Native Americans. The majority of the series is made up of Midwestern newsletters, but other publications are from other areas of the country. This series has been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically.
Series XIII contains materials mostly unrelated to Native Americans. It represents Dr. Tax's interests in other areas of social concern, especially education and race and ethnicity. It is composed almost entirely of articles and reports about various social issues, as well as conference summaries and some correspondence. This series has been divided into four subseries to distinguish general areas of interest.
Subseries 1: Community Development, contains materials related to urban growth and renewal, especially in the Chicago area. This includes many journal publications and reports and conference summaries for various community development projects.
Subseries 2: Education, contains primarily publications and reports on educational strategies and education as it relates civil rights issue, especially desegregation.
Subseries 3: Poverty, contains publications on economic issues and the "War on Poverty." It contains primarily publications from various authors on issues of poverty and racial divides.
Subseries 4: Race and Ethnicity, contains correspondence and publications on topics of race, especially in American urban environments. It also contains a series of scholarly debates over the topic of the existence and importance of race.
Series XIV contains materials that have been separated from other series and relocated due to their size. There are several maps and large negative plates of the Fox Project's documentary history.
The Records is primarily minutes of organizational meetings and the account and record books of the organization. The scope of the papers runs the length of the life of the organization.
The collection consists of one item, an album of photographs documenting Hilberry’s 1961 visit to Japan as a consultant to the Japanese Atomic Energy Commission.
The Aaron Nickerson Collection contains four letters written by Aaron Nickerson to Lizzie Swartwout. The letters largely concern Aaron’s move to La Grange, Texas and his life in his new home. Of particular interest in the letters are mention of an itinerant phrenologist and Nickerson’s contracting of typhoid fever. Nickerson also writes of his concern for Lizzie’s health should she come to join him in Texas. Judging from the tone of the letters and the salutations, Lizzie was very close with Nickerson, perhaps his wife. Two of the letters are dated from 1839, and the remaining three are dated in 1860. Also included in the collection are four envelopes addressed to Swartwout. All letters are arranged chronologically.
The collection was previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
The Hoke Norris Papers primarily consist of newspaper clippings of articles written by Norris. There are also six letters, including one from Bülent Ecevit, the prime minister of Turkey in 1974, 1977, 1978-1979, and 1999 to the present.
The Ida Noyes Papers consist of 611 photographs, a postcard, and four bound volumes of letters from Ida Noyes to her husband, La Verne Noyes. The photographs were not taken by Noyes, but collected from various countries, including France, Italy, Egypt, Algeria, Israel, Turkey, Spain, India, Burma, and Japan. The letters contain descriptions of these foreign and other domestic journeys.
This collection consists of three bound volumes of press releases, speeches, publications, and news clippings concerning the commemoration in 1962-1963 of the 20th anniversary of the first self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction and related events in 1942. The volumes were received from the University News and Information office in August, 1985.
The records of the Office of the President, Beadle Administration, represent the activities of George Wells Beadle as President, his immediate circle of Central Administration associates (including particularly the work of Edward H. Levi as Vice-President), and personnel in the University of Chicago's divisions, departments, committees, and other administrative units. The collection thus constitutes not only documentation of the Office of the President, but a varied record of the administrative workings of the university.
While most of the documents in the collection date from the years in which Beadle served as President, material dating to earlier administrations can also be found - staff of the office often collected such material for internal research, or to provide historical or biographical context for a current topic.
The collection is divided into seven series, each of which is organized into alphabetical or chronological files. This organization, including the file headings themselves, is generally consistent with the original arrangement of files kept by staff in the Office of the President.
Series I, General Files, contains a variety of correspondence, publications, reports, minutes and other administrative material. The series is arranged alphabetically by topic. File headings include personal names, administrative units, and topical terms. Headings are sometimes very general ("Germany") while others are quite precise ("United States, House of Representatives Sub-Committee on Public Health and Safety, questionnaire"). Oversize material from this series has been transferred to Series VII: Oversize Material, Box 424
Series II, Buildings, contains correspondence, blueprints, reports, publications and administrative documents pertaining to university buildings. Large blueprints from this series have been transferred to Architectural Drawings Collection in the University of Chicago Archives.
Series III, Development, contains a variety of correspondence, publications, reports, minutes and other administrative material relating to the Development campaign of the University. Oversized materials from this series have been moved to Series VII: Oversize Material, Boxes 420-423. Additional material related to Development is found in Series I, filed under "Development" or the specific names or titles associated with varying development projects.
Series IV, Invitations, is arranged chronologically. This series contains invitations sent to Beadle and other representatives of the university. The invitations are from organizations across the globe range from university anniversaries to installations of new presidents.
Series V, Trustees, is arranged alphabetically. This series contains material reporting the activities of the university's trustees and their Board, as well as material generated by trustees' work.
Series VI, Appointments and Budgets, contains budgets and letters of appointment, arranged alphabetically. Related correspondence, notes and drafts are also filed with appointments and budgets
Series VII: Oversize Material, contains large files and items transferred from Series I and II.
Most researchers will find it necessary to browse or keyword-search the inventory in order to identify files relevant to a specific subject. For example, a study of student protests might involve consultation of files headed "Demonstrations," "Selective Service," "Student draft demonstration," "Student government," " Students for a Democratic Society," "Vietnam," and so on.
Correspondence of key administrators is also distributed across the collection, some of it located under the name of the individual and some under the name of a department, school, or other institutional unit. To search for the correspondence of important administrators such as Edward H. Levi or Fairfax M. Cone, the researcher will need to be aware of which administrative responsibilities each held and locate headings in the inventory related to those roles.
The records of the Office of the President, Kimpton Administration, represent the activities of Lawrence A. Kimpton as Chancellor, his immediate circle of Central Administration associates, and personnel in the University of Chicago's divisions, departments, committees, and other administrative units. The collection thus constitutes not only documentation of the Office of the President, but a varied record of the administrative workings of the university.
While most of the documents in the collection date from the years in which Kimpton served as Chancellor, material dating to earlier administrations can also be found - staff of the office often collected such material for internal research, or to provide historical or biographical context for a current topic.
The collection is divided into four series. This organization, including the file headings themselves, is generally consistent with the original arrangement of files kept by staff in the Office of the President.
Series I, General Files, contains a wide variety of correspondence, publications, reports, minutes and other administrative material. The series is arranged alphabetically by topic. File headings include personal names, administrative units, and topical terms. Headings are sometimes very general ("Athletics") while others are quite precise ("Urban renewal, 'Analysis of Feasibility of Rehabilitation of Residential Structures,' report").
Series II contains budgets and letters of appointment, also arranged alphabetically; headings generally correspond to the name of individual administrative units such as departments, divisions, and schools. Related correspondence, notes and drafts are also filed with appointments and budgets.
Series III includes invitations sent to Kimpton throughout his tenure. These are arranged chronologically.
Series IV is a small audiovisual series containing a box of slides relating to Hyde Park-Kenwood urban renewal projects throughout the late 1950s. See the Series I, General Files under "Urban Renewal, index of slides," as a guide to this material.
Most researchers will find it necessary to browse or keyword-search the inventory in order to identify files relevant to a specific subject. For example, a study of urban renewal projects in the campus area might involve consultation of Series I files such as "Urban renewal, housing," "Police, campus security," "Buildings, campus, south campus redevelopment project, 1958-1960," and so on.
Correspondence of key administrators is also distributed across the collection, some of it located under the name of the individual and some under the name of a department, school, or other institutional unit. To search for the correspondence of important administrators, the researcher will need to be aware of which administrative responsibilities each held and locate headings in the inventory related to those roles.
The collection is composed primarily of the correspondence of Benton and his associates involved in public relations and broadcasting at the University of Chicago. As well as incoming and outgoing correspondence of William Benton, there is also correspondence of Benton's assistant John P. Howe, and Sherman Dryer, Radio Director for the university. It also contains correspondence with university administrators and faculty, university donors, trustees, and alumni, the commercial publishing and broadcasting community, and a broad array of well-known figures in politics, film, athletics and other fields. A large part of the collection is devoted to the University of Chicago's broadcasting projects, which Benton and his associates believed had great educational significance. In particular, it includes materials related to the production of the famous nation-wide Round Table radio program.
Several items within the collection deal with contemporary issues and events at the University of Chicago, including the ongoing debate over President Hutchins' abolition of varsity football in 1939; preparations for celebrations for the fiftieth anniversary of the university in 1942; logistics for bringing in special guest speakers and researchers, and the university's public relations in the wake of accusations in the mid-1930s that it was a haven for left-wing radicalism. The collection also deals with Benton's and the University of Chicago's activities during the Second World War.
The collection is organized alphabetically, with individual files for each academic year (not calendar year) from 1937-1946. The bulk of this collection spans the years 1937-1946 and the tenure of William Benton as Vice-President. A few letters from 1936 are filed with reference to events that occurred in academic year 1937-1938.
The Ron Offen Papers are organized into four series: Series I, Manuscripts and Personal; Series II, Correspondence; Series III, Free Lunch: A Poetry Miscellany; and Series IV, Audio-Visual. The Papers contain drafts, manuscripts, proofs, book reviews, publications, biographical material, correspondence, photographs, newspaper articles, videocassettes, legal documents, playbills, college course evaluations, and interviews.
Series I, Manuscripts and Personal, contains manuscripts, drafts, proofs, notes, photographs, press clippings, legal documents, interviews, and reviews of Offen's books, Brando and Dillinger: Dead or Alive?. There are two movie scripts, Four Play and Good and Plenty; manuscripts of his television series Blackwash, Main Road Travelled, and Meeting of the Mindless. His plays The Last Celebration of Leon Duprey and Madame Sostro: The Dream Merchant were aired on several radio stations. There are playbills from theaters located in the Chicagoland Area. Also included are course evaluations from 1978-1979 when he taught a health science class at Saddleback College. Offen wrote a poetry column, and some of his topics included A day for the love of Poetry, and She's Lisel Mueller, a gifted prizewinner. Offen interviewed Maria Fornes in 1972 about being an Obie-honored off Broadway playwright. See Box 24 for oversize materials.
Series II, Correspondence, is arranged chronologically. Most of the correspondence is from Offen's role as editor of Free Lunch and includes letters from poets and colleagues, manuscript submissions, and correspondence about fund drive events. Other correspondence discusses Offen's manuscripts and publications. See Subseries II and Series III for additional correspondence.
Frequent correspondents include Gerry Adler, Eric Alterman, Mike Amato, Donna Biffar, Arthur Binard, Norbert Blei, Jared Carter, Raphael Catala, Fiona Cooper, Kevin Coyne, Bob Davies, Gilbert Dilen, Chris Dombrowski, Thomas Dorsett, Stephen Duplij, Dave Etter, Raymond Farr, Ruth E. Foley, Arthur Foote, Arthur C. Ford, Jerry Friedman, Kathleen Gilbert, Dana Gioia, Joseph Green, John Gribble, Ian Haight, Donald Hall, Donna Henning, Glenn Ingersoll, Colin James, David Jewell, Robert K. Johnson, Jim Kates, Michael Krammer, Thomas Kretz, Richard Krohn, Wendy Lesser, Christina Liggins, Warden Mamie Lockett, Glenna Luschei, Warden Mike Madding, Joe Massey, Kerry McCaskill, W.S. Merwin, Chelle Miko, Penelope Moffet, Matt Morris, C. Mulrooney, David Offutt, Robert Peters, Christopher Presfield, Hilda Raz, James Reiss, Julia Ridl, Fernand Roqueplan, Brian Russell, Mona San Pedro, James Scofield, David Allen Sheldon, Cathy Song, T.K. Splake, Beth Campbell Stemple, Iron Thunderhorse, Larry Tomoyasu, David Vancil, Frank Van Zant, Nick Vittum, Michael Walls, Mary Ann Wehler, J.D. Whitney, and Lois-Ann Yamanaka.
Series III, Free Lunch: A Poetry Miscellany, is arranged into four subseries. Subseries 1, Journal Issues, contains correspondence, manuscripts, proofs, and submissions of the publications. Subseries 2, Starving Poets' Cookbook, Free Lunch Arts Alliance, includes correspondence, proofs, orders, manuscripts, drafts, and marketing material for the publication. Subseries 3, Administrative and Events, includes articles, correspondence, fliers, brochures, and other ephemera on poets, poetry readings, fundraising events, and workshops. Other administrative documents include information about subscriptions, awards, grants, contests, annual reports, and articles of incorporation. See Box 24 for oversize materials.
Series III, Subseries 4, Expenses, includes budgets and receipts. Box 33 includes financial material that is restricted until 2047.
Series IV, Audio-Visual, includes videocassettes of poetry readings sponsored by Free Lunch as well as Offen's plays, The Last Celebration of Leon Duprey, and Madame Sostro: The Dream Merchant.
The collection contains assorted administrative records from the campus group including correspondence regarding its founding, general correspondence, budgets, and scenes related to their Orientation tours and Edinburgh fringe festival ephemera related to their productions. The collection also contains a vast collection of their written scenes dating from the first generation of the troupe (1986) until today. Some of these represent the early comedic works of writers David Auburn and Tami Sagher.
The Elder Olson Papers consist of undated typescript poems, reprints of poems and articles (1939-1974), galleys and proofs of Olson's Penny Arcade, manuscripts, and correspondence.
The "Origin of Man" papers have been organized into two parts. Boxes 2, 3, 4, contain transcripts and tapes of the symposium. Box 1 contains all other materials pertaining to the symposium--preparations for the conference, press coverage, financial arrangements, some of the individual papers presented at the symposium, and correspondence about the symposium
The Melchior Palyi papers have been arranged into five series. Series I includes biographical materials, awards, and honorary degrees. Series II contains correspondence arranged chronologically, including personal letters to Palyi and some copies of letters from him to other people. The majority of correspondence dates from 1931 to 1933. Series III contains writing by Palyi and others, including book reviews, articles, lectures and notes, as well as the WIND radio talks dealing with the war in Europe. Series IV contains The Bulletin, a privately circulated newsletter on economic and social issues. Series V includes newspaper clippings about Palyi, his minor books, and off-print copies of his articles.
The dolls in this collection appear to date from the mid-19th century. Their exact date and place of origin are unknown.
The first Western paper dolls appeared in 18th century Paris during the reign of Louis XV. Several sources assert their existence in 9th century Japan. While the French considered the dolls to be whimsical toys, the British used similar dolls to convey moral messages. Early European paper dolls often depicted actors and actresses and could be used with toy stages. Many of these dolls had permanently printed costumes. Early dressmakers also used a version of a paper doll, eight inches tall with joints made of thread, to design and model clothing.
The first American paper dolls were much less elaborate. As paper was a prized resource in Pioneer America, it was rarely used for toys. Those children privileged enough to obtain them often stored them between the pages of a book. As paper became more available, the dolls were mass produced on cardboard. McLoughlin Brothers, founded in 1828, was the largest paper doll manufacturer of its day. The dolls were printed from engraved wood blocks. Early American paper dolls were typically colored by hand. During the Civil War, widows often earned money by making and embellishing paper dolls. The first paper dolls did not include tabs for dressing the dolls. Instead, drops of sealing wax attached the clothing.
The Eugene Parker Papers are organized into ten series: Series I: Personal; Series II: Correspondence; Series III: Writing; Series IV: Teaching; Series V: Professional Associations and Events; Series VI: Writing by Others; Series VII: Awards, Honors, and Degrees; Series VIII: Audiovisual; Series IX: Oversize; and Series X: Restricted. The collection includes Parker’s email correspondence; reprints of Parker’s scientific publications from 1952 to 2016; lecture notes and overhead projector slides from Parker’s courses; materials related to astrophysicist Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar; scientific publications written by others; scientific and personal photographs; and Parker’s awards and diplomas. Materials date between 1948 and 2018, with the bulk of material dating between 1952 and 2011.Series I, Personal, contains biographical and autobiographical information on Parker and ephemera. Series II, Correspondence, contains Parker’s letters, handwritten notes, and printed emails, including correspondence related to the Parker Solar Probe.
Series III, Writing, contains Parker’s thesis manuscript, reprinted papers, reports, articles, publications, and pamphlets. Reprinted papers are ordered roughly chronologically. All other writing is organized chronologically following the reprinted papers.
Series IV, Teaching, contains Parker’s lecture notes and overhead projector slides from the 2000s and 2010s. Materials are organized alphabetically according to the lecture title.
Series V, Professional Associations and Events, contains materials related to Parker’s professional life, such as newsletters, bulletins, dinner lists and menus, and symposium programs. Organizations include but are not limited to the Instrument Society of America, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the NATO Advanced Study Institute on Solar and Astrophysical Magnetohydrodynamic Flows. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series VI, Writing by Others, contains materials concerning other astrophysicists and scientific publications not written by Eugene Parker. Materials are divided into two subseries:
Subseries 1, Materials Related to Other Astrophysicists, contains reprints by and memorials to Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, reprints and correspondence with Joseph Lemaire, and reprints by Sydney Chapman. Materials are arranged alphabetically according to the last name of the astrophysicist.
Subseries 2, Scientific Publications, contains copies of the publication The Planetary Report (1983-1985) and other scientific articles and pamphlets, including materials published by NASA. Materials are arranged roughly chronologically.
Series VII, Awards, Honors, and Degrees, contains awards, medals, and degrees granted to Parker, as well as his university degrees, diplomas, certificates, and acceptance speeches. Material are arranged chronologically according to the award date.
Series VIII, Audiovisual, contains Parker’s scientific and personal photographs from 1965 to 2000 and a DVD recording of a workshop.
Series IX, Oversize, contains oversized materials such as framed awards, diplomas, and honorary degrees. Materials are organized according to size.
Series X, Restricted, contains Parker’s letters of recommendation, which are restricted for 80 years from the date of record creation. Materials are organized chronologically. This series contains biographical and autobiographical information on Parker and ephemera.
This series contains Parker’s letters, handwritten notes, and printed emails, including correspondence related to the Parker Solar Probe.
This series contains Parker’s thesis manuscript, reprinted papers, reports, articles, publications, and pamphlets. Reprinted papers are ordered roughly chronologically. All other writing is organized chronologically following the reprinted papers.
This series contains Parker’s lecture notes and overhead projector slides from the 2000s and 2010s. Materials are organized alphabetically according to the lecture title.
This series contains materials related to professional association and events, such as newsletters, bulletins, dinner lists and menus, and symposium programs. Organizations include but are not limited to the Instrument Society of America, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the NATO Advanced Study Institute on Solar and Astrophysical Magnetohydrodynamic Flows. Materials are arranged chronologically.
This series contains materials concerning other astrophysicists and scientific publications not written by Eugene Parker. The first subseries contains reprints by and memorials to Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, reprints and correspondence with Joseph Lemaire, and reprints by Sydney Chapman. Materials are arranged alphabetically according to the last name of the astrophysicist. The second subseries contains copies of the publication The Planetary Report (1983-1985) and other scientific articles and pamphlets, including materials published by NASA. Materials are arranged roughly chronologically.
This series contains awards, medals, and degrees granted to Parker, as well as his university degrees, diplomas, certificates, and acceptance speeches. Material are arranged chronologically according to the award date.
This series contains Parker’s scientific and personal photographs from 1965 to 2000 and a DVD recording of a workshop.
This series contains oversized materials such as framed awards, diplomas, and honorary degrees. Materials are organized according to size.
This series contains Parker’s letters of recommendation which are restricted for 80 years from the date of record creation. Materials are organized chronologically.
The collection comprises one box of miscellaneous manuscripts and printed items, and a number of bound scrapbooks. The most noteworthy items in Box 1 are: two letters from the Boston Department of Public Instruction to Parker regarding his appointment as a school "supervisor" in 1880 and his resignation in 1882; brochures from schools at which Parker taught beginning with the Auburn Select School, Auburn, New Hampshire, in 1857 and concluding with the Chicago Normal School ca. 1899 [other items of interest in this folder include memorabilia from the Manchester, N.H. Centennial in 1851 and a clipping from the [Quincy?] Tribune, January 8, 1880 with the comment by Parker[?] or an associate, ["Kind of the Tribune to give us these little suggestions which are quite needed"]; printed materials on the Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of the Quincy Movement; letters of application and recommendation for positions on the faculty of the School of Education of The University of Chicago, most of which are addressed to Parker; notes of Col. Parker's nurse during his last illness and death, notes on the autopsy made by Drs. Holmes and Robertson, and measurements of Col. Parker's body; eulogy to Parker by Superintendent Lane of the Chicago School system; and, finally, letters of condolence from educators and teachers [among the correspondents is G. Stanley Hall, March 17, 1902.]
The Francis W. Parker scrapbooks contain clippings of newspaper and magazine editorials and articles by and about Parker, and notices containing information on institutions, organizations, movements, and methods with which he was associated or in which he was interested, e.g., the Quincy, Massachusetts grammar schools, the National University, Cook County Normal School, the Chicago Institute, the School of Education of The University of Chicago, and many articles on the "Quincy movement" and the "new education." The articles represent worldwide opinion covering the years 1873-1904; hundreds of journals and newspapers in this country and abroad are represented. Also contained in these scrapbooks are anniversary accounts, memorials, and obituary notices reviewing in detail Parker's contributions to education. Scrapbook 13 [1900-1904] contains miscellaneous newspaper clippings and brochures from or concerning schools which Parker attended or in which he taught, addresses given by Parker at school functions, meetings of literary societies of which he was a member, officer or speaker, and notices of academic honours received. Scrapbook 13 is wrapped together with a folio address book or guest register.
The Phyllis J. Patton Collection contains print publications, coasters, and calendars produced by the Container Corporation of America between 1936 and 1983. It is organized chronologically where physical condition allows. The print publications are comprised of a 1936 atlas (Box 2 Folder 3), a 1937 book by Alexander Weaver about the history of paper (Box 1 Folder 1), a 1976 book recounting the first fifty years of the corporation’s history (Box 2 Folder 1), and a 1976 publication of the 1950-1975 advertisement series entitled Great Ideas of Western Man (Box 2 Folder 2). All of these books were published by the Container Corporation of America. The collection also includes one publication by the International Paper Company from 1974, the eleventh edition of their Pocket Pal: a Graphic Arts Production Handbook (Box 1 Folder 2). Box 1 also contains three calendars: an accordion calendar from 1974 and a corrugated cardboard folding calendar from 1978, both in Folder 3, and a pop-up calendar from 1983, in Folder 5. Finally, the collection contains two sets of coasters and one measuring tape with the company name printed on it. Several items are related to the 50-year anniversary of the Container Corporation’s 1926 founding (Box 1 Folder 4, Box 2 Folders 1-2).
The Mark Perlberg Papers are organized into 7 series:
Series I: Personal Papers; this series contains some of Perlberg’s important personal documents, including his military discharge papers, permissions and copyright information for his published works, and a copy of his birth certificate. Materials date from 1953 to circa 2008 and are arranged chronologically.
Series II: Correspondence; this series contains Perlberg’s personal as well as profession correspondence. The bulk of his personal correspondence is in regards to his poetry while the bulk of his professional correspondence consists of official communications between the Poetry Center of Chicago and various other institutions, including the Museum of Contemporary Art and the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Materials date from 1967 to 2010 and are arranged first by type (personal followed by professional), then chronologically.
Series III: Writings; this series contains typescript and holograph drafts of Perlberg’s various essays and poems. Materials date from 1965 to 2008 and are arranged first by type (essays followed by poems), then alphabetically by title.
Series IV: Publicity and Reviews; this series contains publicity information and advertisements as well as literary reviews of Perlberg’s poetry. Materials date from 1977 to 2010 and are arranged first by type (publicity followed by reviews), then alphabetically by the title of the work being reviewed.
Series V: Poetry Center of Chicago; this series contains numerous documents pertaining to the administration of the Poetry Center of Chicago, including an annual report, development prospectus, and event announcements. Materials date from 1978 to 2001 and are arranged chronologically.
Series VI: Newberry Library, Poetry Workshop; this series contains mostly course plans, pamphlets, and course evaluations of Perlberg’s poetry workshop sponsored by the Newberry Library. Materials date from 1986 to 2003 and are arranged chronologically.
Series VII: Oversize; this series contains newspaper clippings of reviews for Perlberg’s book entitled The Burning Field as well as posters for events hosted by Poetry Center of Chicago in its early years. Also included is a photograph of the Poetry Center founders. Materials date from 1970 to circa 1980 and are arranged chronologically.
The records are organized in sixteen folders. The first folder contains a notebook holding the handwritten minutes of the Lambda Chapter’s installation and first two years of meetings.
The remaining fifteen folders contain documents created between 1982 and 1989, including membership lists, procedural guidelines, meeting materials (including announcements, agenda, and minutes), financial and fundraising reports, newsletters, memoranda from the national society, program schedules, correspondence, and catalogs of reprints.
These fifteen folders follow an order that is generally chronological. Folders two through six contain information about the organization and membership of the Lambda Chapter; folders seven through fourteen contain information on the Chapter’s activities (programs, meetings, and reports); folders fourteen and fifteen contain correspondence; and folder sixteen contains catalogs of the Educational Excellence Network.
The Robert S. Platt papers contain student notes, professional correspondence, manuscripts, off-prints, lectures, field notes, teaching materials, postcards, photographs, and movie film; notes and research papers from his Department of Geography field courses in the upper Great Lakes region; and editorial correspondence of the Annals of the Association of American Geographers from 1961 to 1963.
Series I. BIOGRAPHICAL
This series contains a miscellaneous group of materials related to Platt's life, as well as a series of tributes offered by his students and colleagues. Of particular interest are folders devoted to Platt's retirement and the critical appraisals of his career by William Pattison, Richard Hartshorne, and Richard S. Thoman.
Series II. EARLY NOTES AND PAPERS
Except for items in the first folder, this series of student notes and papers represents Platt's work as a graduate student in the Department of Geography from 1915 to 1920. The lectures by Barrows, Tower, and Cowles preserved in Platt's notes are significant for the information they provide on the intellectual climate of the Department during its early years. That these teachers (and others including Rollin D. Salisbury and Albion Small) were having an important effect on Platt's thinking is apparent from a group of undated geographical notes, evidently written ca. 1916; in these notes, Platt compares definitions of geography offered in Departmental courses with those found in standard dictionaries, and counter-poses his own reflections on the nature of the discipline.
Series III. PROFESSIONAL CORRESPONDENCE
Platt's professional correspondence includes a number of important exchanges with such colleagues as Harlan H. Barrows, Richard Hartshorne, Wellington D. Jones, and Derwent Whittlesey. In the case of Hartshorne, Platt considered certain letters to be of such theoretical consequence that they were separated for use in teaching his course on Geographic Thought at Indiana University in 1963. The professional correspondence also contains letters related to Platt's work with the Association of American Geographers, the Library of Congress, the National Research Council, and the U.S. State Department and War Department.
Series IV. WRITINGS
The writings in this series have been divided into three sub-series: Books and Articles and Addresses and Lectures arranged alphabetically by title, followed by Book Reviews organized alphabetically by the last name of the author or editor. Individual folders in the Books and Articles section typically contain manuscripts and offprints, but they may also include outlines and correspondence or notes by Platt such as those found on the manuscript chapters of American Geography: Inventory and Prospect. Several autobiographical writings containing Platt's comments on his career and the development of American geography should also be noted: "Being a Geographer"; "My Unfinishing School" and "My Photogenic Finish;" "Around the World in 47 Years"; "Glimpses of the Decades"; and "A Half-Century of Geography and Geographers."
Series V. FIELD NOTES
Notes in this series record Platt's field observations throughout his career, from a trip to the Fox Valley as a graduate student to travels in Spain and Morocco in the year before his death. The notes have been organized into five general geographical categories (United States and Canada; Bermuda; Latin America and Caribbean; and Europe and North America), and within each category have been arranged chronologically by year. The notes on Bermuda collected in the spring and fall of 1919 served as the basis for his 1920 Ph.D. dissertation, "Resources and Economic Interests of the Bermudas."
Series VI. DEPARTMENTAL AND TEACHING MATERIALS
Apart from a small group of administrative materials, this series is devoted largely to notes and correspondence related to regular geography courses taught by Platt from 1920 to 1963. Included are records of his earliest teaching experiences at Changsha at Yale in China and in the U.S. Army during World War I, and a group of materials from his courses on Geographic Thought and Methodology given at the University of Chicago and Indiana University late in his life.
Letters of recommendation in this series are restricted until 2035.
Series VII. GREAT LAKES FIELD COURSES
Material in this series records the work of Platt and his students in the field from 1920 to 1951. Within the group of folders devoted to each year's trip, Platt's correspondence and notes on travel arrangements and field instructions are followed by printed maps indicating the general area being surveyed, manuscript reports and maps compiled by students in the field, and final research papers prepared by students for course credit.
Series VIII. ANNALS OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF GEOGRAPHERS
This series contains the editorial files accumulated by Platt during his tenure as editor of the Annals of the A.A.G. (1961-1964). General editorial correspondence is followed by letters and referees' reports on individual published articles arranged by issue.
All records in this series are restricted until 2014 and may be consulted only upon application to the University Archivist.
Series IX. POSTCARDS
Platt was an avid collector of postcards with geographical views, particularly in the early years of his career. Besides serving as colorful souvenirs of his travels, postcards also met research needs: those depicting the landforms, flora, and industries of Bermuda, for example, proved useful in the writing of his dissertation.
Series X. PHOTOGRAPHS
Rooted in his early amateur interest in picture taking, Platt's commitment to photography as a research tool was a hallmark of his geographic field technique. Although many of the photographs in this series were intended to appear as illustrations in his published articles, others were taken to serve as permanent records of significant events in his life. Platt recorded student excursions with Rollin Salisbury; his earliest fieldwork at Ellison Bay; the first of the American geographers' spring field conferences; and numerous incidents during annual trips to the upper Great Lakes region. Platt's collection of photographs is also an important source of visual information on the Department of Geography and the varied events at his home in Morgan Park.
Series XI. RESTRICTED
This series contains student evaluative material restricted until 2037.
This collection contains administrative records of Poetry: A Magazine of Verse from its founding in 1912 to 1961. The majority of the files include correspondence, poetry, articles and reviews that were sent to and compiled by each editor of the magazine beginning with its first editor and founder, Harriet Monroe. Though the collection covers the period 1912 to 1961, it includes a small amount of correspondence from the late 1890s.
In the 1970s, the collection was first archivally organized into three series, based upon the original arrangement in which the papers were received. The preservation and microfilming project conducted in 2001-2002 retained this broad arrangement but also provided enhanced description by identifying subdivisions with each of the series. The Poetry collection has been arranged as follows: Series I: Administrative Files, 1912-1936, Series II: Administrative Files, 1936-1953, Series III: Administrative Files, 1954-1961 and Series IV: Oversize. For more descriptive information see the series descriptions for each series.
The collection documents not only the administration and growth of Poetry magazine, but also the development of English-language verse in the first half of the twentieth century. Most of the files within each series contain editorial correspondence and poetry, articles and reviews, in manuscript and proof form.
Each series contains a modest amount of business files having to do with the operation of the magazine including financial, advertising and fund raising records, literary prizes, author biographies and clippings.
Within each series, manuscripts and correspondence have generally been arranged alphabetically by the name of the author. Series I and II are divided into alphabetical subseries distinguished "Major" and "Minor" Poets, a division present in the files upon their receipt.
Series I includes correspondence, manuscripts of poetry, articles and reviews sent to Harriet Monroe during her tenure as editor of Poetry: a Magazine of Verse. The manuscripts cover the period from the beginnings of the magazine to her death in 1936. This series has been divided into three subseries, reflecting the organization of the files as used by the editorial staff of the magazine. 1. General Manuscripts, 2. Major Poets, and 3. Addenda.
Subseries 1, General Manuscripts contains alphabetically arranged correspondence and manuscripts submitted to Harriet Monroe, editor of Poetry. There is a limited amount of overlap between the first and second subseries. Cross-references have been added in many instances, but researchers are encouraged to review each series and subseries for related information.
Subseries 2, Major Poets is arranged alphabetically. It includes editorial correspondence, manuscripts of poetry and prose and galleys, some with manuscript corrections.
Subseries 3, Addenda, contains a mix of business records. It includes business correspondence; correspondence between Harriet Monroe and Poetry’s business manager, Mila Straub; biographical information provided by poets; guarantor’s records; circulars, news clippings; and photographs of Harriet Monroe. A small group of letters are identified as Crank Letters. These includes a miscellany, some marked "amusing" or "museum verses not for publication."
Series II contains Poetry files acquired by the University of Chicago in 1953, as an addition to those received upon the death of Harriet Monroe. There is some overlap among the materials in .s Series I and II; related correspondence and manuscripts from the 1930s may appear in both series. .s Series II is arranged in four subseries: 1. 1. Manuscripts - Major Contributors, 2. Manuscripts - Minor Contributors; 3. Editorial Files, and 4. Non-editorial Files.
Subseries 1, Manuscripts - Major Contributors, includes correspondence and manuscripts from those writers considered by the Poetry staff of the time to be "Major" poets. The manuscripts are arranged alphabetically by author in a single sequence with each author’s contributions arranged individually in one or more folders in the following order:
1. poetry in chronological order with undated poems at the end.
2. prose (reviews., essays, etc.) in a single chronology.
3. correspondence to and from the contributor in a single chronological sequence.
4. Miscellaneous material, including corrected proofs., printed publicity, etc.
Subseries 1 also contains business correspondence from Amy Bonner, Eastern Business Representative for Poetry, who was also a poet and contributor.
Subseries 2 contains the correspondence and contributions of "minor" contributors and literary correspondents, arranged alphabetically with the papers of a number of individuals in a single folder.
Subseries 3 contains editorial and production material, such as manuscripts, galley proofs and printers’ instructions., for each issue of Poetry: A Magazine of Verse from October, 1936 (volume XLIX., number 1) through December, 1953 (volume LXXIII, number 3). Proofs corrected by authors will be found under the name of the author in Subseries 1 or 2.
Subseries 4 includes non-editorial records of the magazine, including records of fundraising, relationships with publishers and advertising agencies, literary prizes and projects, personnel matters, and other business material relating to the operation of the magazine. This material is arranged alphabetically and then chronologically by subject with the exception of the financial reports and miscellaneous business correspondence which are in chronological order.
Series III contains Poetry files from the years 1954 to 1961. There is some overlap among the materials in .s Series II and III; related correspondence and manuscripts from the 1950s may appear in both series. .s Series II is arranged in four subseries: 1. Contributors, 2. Business Records and Correspondence, 3. Publication Matter and 4. Miscellaneous.
Subseries 1, Contributors, is an alphabetical file of the correspondence and manuscripts sent to the Poetry editors. There is no division of "major" and "minor" poets in Series III. Correspondence with an agent or other individual regarding a poet’s work is generally filed under the poet’s name. Translated manuscripts are generally found under the name of the translator, with whom Poetry editors corresponded.
Subseries 2, Business Records and Correspondence, contains non-editorial correspondence regarding the operation of Poetry. It includes items filed alphabetically by correspondents’ names, as well as subject files. Among the latter are files on special issues of the magazine (such as those on Indian, Israeli and Japanese poetry), material on the Poetry Prize and other awards and records of copyright permissions.
Subseries 3, Publication Matter, comprises folders for each month’s issue, containing editorial manuscripts, galleys, and correspondence with the printer.
Subseries 4, Miscellaneous, contains radio scripts for readings from Poetry on WFMT in 1953 and 1954, news releases, publicity material, announcements, photographs and other items.
The papers of Michael Polanyi are a continuing testament to the richness of the philosopher's life. In order to facilitate an understanding of the evolving nature of Michael Polanyi's career, the papers have been divided into four basic series and organized in a largely chronological framework: Correspondence (Boxes 1-20); Notes (Boxes 21-25, folder 7); Manuscripts (25:8-44:11); and Offprints and Memorabilia (45-60).
When received, correspondence, manuscripts, notes, and memorabilia had already been sorted by Professor Polanyi's secretary. The correspondence had been arranged alphabetically in yearly files from 1950 to 1975. Earlier correspondence had been grouped together in no particular order. Professor Polanyi's manuscripts were likewise ordered chronologically and labeled by the title given a particular document at the time of its composition and not necessarily by its final title at the time of publication or delivery as a lecture. The notes were segregated into files arranged alphabetically by author and there were several folders of notes labeled "miscellaneous." Memorabilia was scattered throughout the collection in folders of clippings, photographs, and unorganized announcements, invitations and the like. In addition to these relatively clear groupings, a good deal of overlap occurred with notes and letters scattered among the manuscripts. Letters and clippings from Polanyi's mother Cecile had been separately filed. These items (Boxes 18-20) have been separated but not further organized.
The original organization has been largely retained. Correspondence is interfiled chronologically with separate categories for certain specific people and organizations. The letters and manuscripts relating to Polanyi's involvement with John R. Baker and the Society for Freedom in Science and Joseph H. Oldham and the Moot are separate as are letters to and from his close friends and colleagues Marjorie Grene and Harry Prosch. Most of the family correspondence has been interfiled, but there is a box of letters from his brother Karl Polanyi and Karl's wife Ilona which covers over fifty years of family history. All the sections of correspondence are filed chronologically with undated and fragmentary letters arranged alphabetically at the end of the series. The correspondence contains letters to Polanyi as well as copies of letters he sent out. An index of selected names has been prepared which lists his correspondence with significant figures in twentieth-century history and scholarship.
During the course of World War II, Polanyi lost contact with many friends and family on the continent. Correspondence during the early war years, 1939 and 1940, is filled with pleas for assistance from loved ones trapped in occupied lands (3:14-4:5). Polanyi was instrumental in bringing his brothers Karl and Adolf and his sisters Laura and Irene to England (17:9).
Correspondence with Dr. Oldham and papers presented at meetings of the Moot have been grouped together in this collection (15:3-10). Polanyi corresponded independently with two significant members of the Moot, T. S. Eliot and Karl Mannheim. Their letters will be found in the correspondence.
One of the most significant influences on the development of Polanyi's thought was the correspondence he shared with his friend and colleague, philosopher Marjorie Grene. This material has been grouped together (19:1-9), but it contains only two letters which predate Personal Knowledge.
Manuscripts in the collection are also arranged chronologically by date of composition. Their order has been determined by the dates ascribed to them by Polanyi when they were originally filed. Thus, a revised version of a paper will generally fall under the year of its revision and not the year of its composition. Exceptions to this ordering occur with manuscripts composed at an earlier period and drawn together for a lecture series. Such manuscripts have been filed by the dates of their lectures. Titles and descriptions of manuscripts are taken from the text and have not been matched with any bibliography of Polanyi's published writings. It is hoped that this approach, respecting the integrity of Polanyi's original organization and titles, will help to illuminate the evolving nature of his thought.
The manuscripts series jumps from a solid collection of pre-1952 manuscripts to an equally large group of post-1960 manuscripts. This leaves the researcher with sources for the foundation and later developments of Polanyi's thought, but without sources for the work which culminates in Personal Knowledge.
In spite of this lack of early material relating to Polanyi's philosophical thought, later correspondence with Marjorie Grene and others is abundant. Polanyi's thought ranged over a multitude of ideas and disciplines. His views on the mind led to correspondence with Carl Rogers, Abraham Maslow and Erik Erikson; his views on language, with Noam Chomsky and Yehoshua Bar-Hillel; on visual perception, with Maurice Pirenne. Perhaps the most consistently stimulating exchanges in the collection occur with old friends like Grene, Arthur Koestler, and Eugene Wigner.
The range of Polanyi's thought in his later years was enormous. The Logic of Personal Knowledge, a festschrift presented to Polanyi on his seventieth birthday in 1961, contains essays by such prominent thinkers and friends as Arthur Koestler, Raymond Aron, Bertrand de Jouvenel, and C. V. Wedgwood. After 1960, there are a large number of manuscripts in the collection which help to demonstrate the growth of Polanyi's thought. Of particular interest are the sets of lectures delivered between 1960 and 1971. Included in this group are the 1960 Gunning Lectures, Perceptions of Personal Knowledge (34:1-6); the 1962 Terry Lectures (35:6-12); Man in Thought, a 1964 Duke University lecture series (36:4-37:3); Wesleyan lectures of 1965, Man's Place in the Universe (37:15-38:5); and Meaning, lectures and seminars at the University of Chicago in 1969 (39:6-40:1). The majority of philosophical manuscripts are corrected typescripts of lectures and papers delivered between 1960 and 1972. There are no galley proofs in the collection for any of Polanyi's publications.
Research notes have been divided into two groups: subject and author. The subject notes are drawn together from inter-related material in the folders originally marked "miscellaneous." "Author notes" are an alphabetical arrangement of Polanyi's files of quotations by and comments on a variety of scientific, political, philosophical, and literary figures. The memorabilia in the collection has been separated into the following categories: photographs and postcards; general memorabilia including announcements, addresses, and receipts; clippings, dissertations, and interviews with Polanyi; and offprints and other published materials.
Nearly all of the series of research notes are devoted to philosophy. When received, the notes had been divided between "author notes" and "miscellaneous." The miscellaneous notes have been sorted by subject and inventoried. The author notes have been arranged alphabetically by last name of author. Most of this material contains summaries, commentaries, and quotations relating to the work of a specific author. Together these sets of notes formed a reference file which Polanyi could turn to in writing.
This index highlights Polanyi's correspondence with a wide range of prominent individuals between 1913 and 1975. The correspondence is arranged chronologically, with undated letters arranged alphabetically at the end of the series. Indexed names are followed by the dates of their correspondence or, if there are undated letters, by the number of pieces followed by n.d. Correspondence of John R. Baker, Joseph H. Oldham, Marjorie Grene, Julius and Elsa Hollo, Harry Prosch, Karl and Ilona Polanyi, and Cecile Polanyi follows the undated group.
Arthur J. Allmand, 1931 July 3. 1932 May 17; June 2, 21; Nov. 29. 1933 Apr. 6; Sept. 8; Dec. 22. 1934 Mar. 22; Apr. 8; Sept. 26; Oct. 2. 1937 Jan. 15; Dec. 28. 1939 May 22, 24. 1941 Mar. 31. 1945 May 13.
Edward N. da Costa Andrade, 1944 Oct. 8, 10.
Raymond Aron, 1961 Mar. 28. 1967 May 9, 31. 1971 June 2. 1972 Sept. 22.
Yehoshua Bar-Hillel 1964 Dec. 15, 30. 1965 Mar. 1. 1966 Mar. 25; Apr. 25.
Paul Beck, 1930 Sept. 4. 1933 June 2; Aug. 4; Oct. 3. 1938 Jan. 15. 1947 Oct. 29. 1948 Jan. 8.
Daniel Bell, 1972 June 1, 15.
Ronald P. Bell, 1947 Dec. 12.
Morroe Berger, 1960 Nov. 15.
Ernst Berl, 1922 Mar. 28; May 2.
Arnold Berliner, 1924 Feb. 7; June 23.
John D. Bernal, 1935 Mar. 26; Apr. 11, 29. 1938 Sept. 10, 13. 1939 Nov. 14. 1946 Jan. 8, 30.
Sir William Beveridge, 1938 Apr. 29. 1939 May 24, 25.
Arthur Binz, 1922 Mar. 7, 8; May 23.
Niels Bjerrum, 1945 Nov. 1; Dec. 27.
Patrick M. Blackett, 1937 July 18. 1938 May 10. 1939 Aug. 26. 1941 Oct. 28; Nov. 3. 1942 Sept. 21, 22. 1944 Nov. 9. 1945 Mar. 9, 13; May 16; June 22, 28; July 27; Aug. 1. 1946 May 10; Dec. 20. 1947 July 11; Sept. 15. 1948 Mar. 16. 1949 May 9.
Max Bodenstein, 1935 June 17. 1937 Sept. 13.
Nils Bohr, 1938 July 8.
Karl F. Bonhoeffer, 1933 July 12. 1938 June 3. 1939 June 16. 1950 Mar. 13.
Max Born, 1921 Jan. 12; June 13; Sept. 26. 1924 July 10. 1936 Feb. 19. 1941 July 29, 31. 1942 Feb. 12, 14, 20; June 30; July 9; Sept. 21, 27; Oct. 5; Nov. 21; Dec. 16.
Sir William Henry Bragg, 1934 June 30; July 2, 6. 1938 Nov. 22. 1939 Jan. 14.
Sir William L. Bragg, 1933 June 30; July 7, 10, 14; Nov. 22. 1942 May 22; Oct. 28; Dec. 14. 1943 Jan. 7; May 22; July 1; Sept. 1, 14, 24, 27. 1946 Jan. 25. 2 n.d.
Georg Bredig, 1913 Feb. 1, 12. 1914 Feb. 16. 1915 Jan. 28; Apr. 25; Dec. 31. 1917 Feb. 12. 1923 June 23. 1924 Feb. 29. 1932 Nov. 18. 1 n.d.
Percy W. Bridgman, 1923 Mar. 24. 1943 Sept. 8. 1946 Dec. 19.
William F. Buckley, 1964 Aug. 4. 1968 Mar. 12, 21; Apr. 11.
Alan Bullock, 1970 Jan. 20, 26.
Hadley Cantril, 1962 July 2. 1964 June 10; July 28; Oct. 26.
Jean-Claude Casanova, 1969 Feb. 13; Mar. 20; June 6; Sept. 26; Oct. 24. 1970 Mar. 10; Nov. 27. 1971 Jan. 22; Apr. 8; June 21, 25.
Noam Chomsky, 1966 Nov. 6.
Jens A. Christiansen, 1932 Nov. 14. 1948 Mar. 1, 10; June 22.
Nevill Coghill, 1963 Oct. 22, 24; 1969 Oct. 22.
John Bell Condliffe, 1940 Sept. 16.
Erika Cremer, 1932 June 17. 1952 July 22.
J. A. Crowther, 1942 Jan. 23.
Lionel Curtis, 1944 Dec. 18, 21. 1945 Jan. 1, 9, 10, 20.
Cyril Darlington, 1962 Aug. 31; Sept. 3.
Frederick G. Donnan, 1932 May 16; Oct. 6. 1933 Jan. 20; Apr. 7, 19. 1941 Dec. 14. 1943 Jan. 29; Sept. 9.
Ludwig Ebert, 1933 July 3.
Paul Ehrenfest, 1932 June 6.
Albert Einstein, 1920 Mar. 1. 1922 Mar. 14. 1932 Oct. 13.
Daniel D. Eley, 1939 Apr. 8; May 9; Dec. 15. 1940 June 6, 11; Oct. 13. 1944 Sept. 7, 30; Oct. 2. 1945 June 4. 1946 Jan. 6. 1947 Jan. 7; Mar. 18. 1974 Jan. 3, 8, 17.
Mircea Eliade, 1969 Jan. 24.
T. S. Eliot, 1944 June 3, 7, 27, 29. 1945 Mar. 5; May 23, 25; Dec. 26.
Pierre Emmanuel, 1967 Oct. 5. 1968 Apr. 9, 25; June 4. 1969 May 2.
Dorothy Emmet, 1947 Sept. 18. 1973 Mar. 27. 5 n.d.
Erik Erikson, 1965 Oct. 28.
Henry Eyring, 1933 Oct. 28. 1934 Nov. 24. 1936 Nov. 6. 1937 Feb. 18; Mar. 23. 1938 Sept. 22. 1951 Mar. 6.
Kasimir Fajans, 1915 May 24; Oct. 3; Dec. 12. 1916 Jan. 13; Mar. 22; May 27; June 28; Oct. 22. 1917 Sept. 2. 1918 Mar. 21; June 26; Oct. 5. 1920 Feb. 3; June 28; Sept. 1; Dec. 31. 1921 Jan. 4; Apr. 4; May 5. 1 n.d.
Herbert Feigl, 1969 Mar. 18, 31.
Laura Fermi, 1966 Oct. 3, 7, 12.
James Franck, 1921 Nov. 17. 1925 July 3. 1927 Apr. 23. 1932 Aug. 30. 1961 May 18.
Herbert Freundlich, 1914 Apr. 12. 1918 Apr. 14. 1934 Mar. 24; Apr. 29. 1938 Oct. 21. 1939 Jan. 14; Feb. 16; Apr. 8; July 3.
Alexander Frumkin, 1929 July 28. 1932 Apr. 14; Nov. 28. 1935 Dec. 14. 1941 Dec. 1. 1942 Oct. 18. 1945 June 22. 18 n.d.
Joseph S. Fruton, 1971 Oct. 7, 11.
Dennis Gabor, 1961 June 23.
Charles C. Gillespie, 1966 June 30; July 26; Nov. 4. 1968 Oct. 29.
David Goldstein, 1969 Feb. 25; Mar. 5, 27; Apr. 14, 18; May 2.
Sir Richard Gregory, 1942 Jan. 29, 30. 1943 Feb. 12; June 15.
Eduard Grüneisen, 1922 June 20.
Fritz Haber, 1923 Apr. 16. 1931 Aug. 5, 6; Dec. 31. 1932 June 27; Dec. 18. 1933 Jan. 23; Apr. 26. 2 n.d.
Otto Hahn, 1933 Sept. 21.
Robert S. Hansen, 1963 Jan. 30; Apr. 15; May 1.
Garrett Hardin, 1963 Feb. 21.
Sir Alister Hardy, 1969 Aug. 29; Oct. 16, 21. 1971 Dec. 9, 14. 1972 Apr. 20.
Romano Harré, 1967 Feb. 2; 1975 Feb. 15.
Sir Roy F. Harrod, 1945 Nov. 21, 28; Dec. 3, 19.
Robert D. Haworth, 1947 June 28, 30.
Sir Walter N. Haworth, 1946 Apr. 22.
Friedrich A. Hayek, 1939 Jan. 28. 1940 Jan. 31; Feb. 4; Apr. 18. 1941 May 1; July 1, 26. 1968 Feb. 2.
Werner Heisenberg, 1934 July 9.
Wilfred Heller, 1933 Sept. 12, 20, 22. 1934 Apr. 12. 1938 Oct. 25. 1939 Jan. 2. 2 n.d.
George C. de Hevesey, 1953 Apr. 29.
Joel Hildebrand, 1937 Feb. 26; Mar. 8.
Sir Cyril Hinshelwood, 1935 June 6, 8, 19, 27. 1937 Feb. 9, 12; Apr. 14, 15; June 4, 5. 1941 Jan. 27; Feb. 1. 1946 Feb. 11, 13. 3 n.d.
Lancelot Hogben, 1939 Nov. 23, 27, 30; Dec. 6, 8, 13.
Thorfin R. Hogness, 1942 Aug. 20; Oct. 27; Nov. 11.
Gerald Holton, 1963 Nov. 6, 12, 26. 1973 Sept. 20. 1974 Jan. 7.
Juro Horiuchi, 1934 Dec. 13. 1935 Feb. 4; Mar. 17, 20; Apr. 24; July 30; Aug. 29; Oct. 25. 1936 Jan. 13; July 3, 10. 1956 May 15. 2 n.d.
Robert M. Hutchins, 1964 Dec. 30.
Sir Christopher Ingold, 1934 Apr. 24, 30; Nov. 7, 8. 1935 Dec. 15. 1936 Mar. 28; Nov. 6. 1938 Jan. 11, 14, 17. 1939 May 16, 18; Sept. 28. 1940 June 13. 1941 Jan. 22; Feb. 5. 1942 June 10. 1946 Nov. 20, 21, 25, 29. 1947 July 9.
Oscar Jászi, 1935 Nov. 24. 1936 Aug. 22. 1937 Sept. 2. 1938 Jan. 3. 1939 Apr. 24. 1940 May 9; July 22; Sept. 20. 1941 Mar. 23; July 29. 1942 Dec. 20. 1944 Apr. 28; May 1, 27; July 5. 1945 Mar. 28; July 22; Oct. 12. 1946 Feb. 28. 1947 July 28; Aug. 22. 1948 Apr. 4; Dec. 15. 1949 Dec. 25. 1950 Nov. 27. 1952 Apr. 29. 1955 Oct. 14. 2 n.d.
Konstantin A. Jelenski, 1966 Feb. 11. 1969 June 27; July 15, 20, 31; Aug. 20, 26; Sept. 1, 3, 4, 8, 15, 17, 29; Oct. 7, 9, 13, 21. 1970 Aug. 10; Nov. 27. 1971 Oct. 14; Nov. 1; Dec. 30. 1972 Jan. 7; Feb. 7, 9, 11, 14, 21, 24; Mar. 1, 9, 13, 30; Apr. 3; May 30; June 5, 12, 25; July 31; Aug. 21. 1975 Jan. 16, 20; Mar. 17.
John Jewkes, 1936 Feb. 6, 11, 12; July 20; Dec. 7. 1937 Feb. 3. 1938 Dec. 13. 1939 Oct. 23. 1940 Feb. 7. 1941 June 27. 1943 Feb. 8. 1944 Jan. 10; Apr. 18. 1946 Nov. 18. 1947 May 7. 1948 May 5; "monday" [no month or day.] 1952 Dec. 1. 3 n.d.
Abram Joffé, 1935 July 5.
David Caradog Jones, 1942 Mar. 20, 31; Apr. 2. 1943 Jan. 30; Feb. 4, 12, 18; Mar. 20, 22.
Michael Josselson, 1969 Apr. 14, 21; May 1, 13; Aug. 25. 1970 Nov. 18; Dec. 4. 1971 Apr. 29; June 14; July 13; Nov. 4, 10. 1972 June 29; July 23; Sept. 14; Oct. 19.
Bertrand de Jouvenal, 1972 Jan. 12.
Ivan Kats, 1960 Nov. 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 18, 21, 22.
Edwin C. Kemble, 1947 Mar. 7; Apr. 16.
John Maynard Keynes, 1940 Feb. 6, 8, 19. 1945 Dec. 20; 1946 Feb. 23.
Frank Knight, 1948 Feb. 11; June 16.
Sigmund Koch, 1971 Jan. 7.
Arthur Koestler, 1941 May 15, 18, 23; June 1; July 12; Aug. 8, 13. 1942 Mar. 5; Apr. 26; July 8; Aug. 21. 1943 Jan. 25; Apr. 2; June 12; July 17; Aug. 5, 27; Sept. 1; Dec. 16. 1944 Jan. 10. 1946 Mar. 3, 15; Apr. 26, 30; May 21, 24; June 22; July 22; Aug. 29; Oct. 22; Nov. 14. 1947 Jan. 20, 22; Aug.14, 19. 1949 May 26. 1962 Mar. 8. 1967 Nov. 4. 1968 Oct. 14. 1969 Sept. 4, 17. 1970 Aug. 4. 1971 Dec. 16, 22. 1972 Jan. 13. 1973; Apr. 9. 4 n.d.
Elmer Kohler, 1935 Nov. 8, 21.
Nicholas Kurti, 1968 Sept. 7, 9. 1970 Nov. 11. 1972 May 14, 18. 1974 Jan. 7.
Imre Lakatos, 1969 Dec. 2, 5, 11. 1970 Jan. 28; Mar. 12. 1972 July 31; Aug. 24, 31.
Melvin Lasky, 1965 Mar. 3. 1967 Nov. 6. 1969 Sept. 16, 26; Oct. 9, 15, 20. 1970 June 2, 22, 24, 25; July 27. 1971 May 6.
Max von Laue, 1936 May 3, 13.
Wolfgang Leonhard, 1957 July 9, 15, 17.
Maurice Letort, 1945 Oct. 23.
P. A. Levene, 1935 Feb. 25.
W. Arthur Lewis, 1 n.d.
Samuel C. Lind, 1937 Feb. 8, 18.
Robert Livingston, 1934 Oct. 5.
Dame Kathleen Lonsdale, 1946 Nov. 27, 28.
Leo Lowenthal, 1963 Apr. 2.
Karl Mannheim, 1944 Jan. 10, 14; Feb. 1; Apr. 19, 26; May 2, 10, 27; June 13, 27, 29; July 27; Aug. 10, 16; Oct. 2, 23, 27. 1945 Jan. 1, 15; Mar. 6, 9; Apr. 12; May 23, 25, 26; Aug. 8, 17; Sept. 14, 18.
Hermann Mark, 1932 Dec. 23. 1933 Apr. 28; June 16; Aug. 16. 1934 Apr. 25. 1973 July 8.
Jacob Marshak, 1943 Aug. 31. 1948 Mar. 3, 23. 1973 Apr. 24; May 15; June 4; Dec. 18.
Abraham and Bertha Maslow, 1969 June 23. 1970 Oct. 5. 1971 Apr. 21; May 17. 1972 Mar. 9, 30; Apr. 11, 17, 24; July 5, 13, 19, 24; Aug. 2, 8; Oct. 2.
Wolfe Mays, 1969 June 28; July 9. 1970 Feb. 17, 19; Mar. 20; Apr. 3. 1973 Dec. 4, 31.
Eugen Merzbacher, 1964 May 2.
Otto Meyerhof, 1930 Mar. 23. 1932 Feb. 4. 1934 June 7. 1935 Mar. 13. 1936 Feb. 19. 1938 Aug. 30. 1939 Apr. 11. 1940 Feb. 13; Dec. 25. 1941 June 19; 1943 Dec. 10; 1944 January. 2 n.d.
Daniel P. Moynihan, 1968 May 7. 1969 June 2, 12. 1970 Jan. 19; Apr. 13, 20; July 2; Oct. 15; Nov. 3, 27; Dec. 1.
Michael Murphy, 1970 Mar. 3, 10.
Sir Lewis Namier, 1934 May 27; July 7.
Walter H. Nernst, 1913 Aug. 22, 30; Sept. 3; Oct. 15. 1914 Feb. 17. 1924 July 14.
Maxwell Newman, 1949 Sept. 19.
Ronald Norrish, 1938 Dec. 5.
Ivan Obreimov, 1 n.d.
Friedrich Paneth, 1920 Feb. 27; July 11; Oct. 27.
Maurice Pirenne, 1967 Sept. 6. 1968 July 17, 19. 1969 June 13; Aug. 23; Oct. 29; Nov. 7, 20, 21, 25, 28; Dec. 11. 1970 Jan. 16, 21; June 12, 25; July 17. 1971 Aug. 14, 31; Sept. 17. 1972 Oct. 25, 30. 1973 Mar. 15; May 30; Oct. 29; Nov. 1, 19. 1974 Sept. 10.
George Polya, 1945 Dec. 13. 1946 June 14; Oct. 21; Nov. 12. 1947 July 1. 1948 Sept. 27. 1969 Feb. 4, 11, 26; Apr. 6; Oct. 23.
Karl Popper, 1949 Oct. 11.
Oscar Rice, 1935; Nov. 6, 27.
Sir Eric Rideal, 1937 Dec. 1. 1939 May 9; Nov. 10, 14. 1940 May 31; June 1. 1942 Apr. 10. 1971; July 2, 13.
Sir Robert Robinson, 1933 Nov. 8. 1940 Jan. 11; Apr. 29. 1946 Feb. 12.
Carl Rogers, 1964 Jan. 1. 1968 Feb. 21; Aug. 29; Sept. 26; Dec. 31. 1969 Nov. 8, 15.
Peter Scheffler, 1963 Feb. 15
Edwin Schrödinger, 4 n.d.
Nicolai Semenoff, 1930 Feb. 15. 1931 Dec. 17. 1932 Mar. 1; Apr. 12. 1934 May 15; June 13; Aug. 11. 1935 Jan. 9; Mar. 21. 2 n.d.
Edward Shils, 1947 Sept. 8. 1955 Dec. 17 1957 June 4; Oct. 23. 1968 Dec. 6. 1969 Dec. 10. 1971 Oct. 19. 1972 Jan. 10, 13, 20, 31; Feb. 2, 8; July 18, 26; Aug. 20. 1973 Aug. 30; Sept. 17. 1 n.d.
Adolf Smekal, 1921 Nov. 21. 1922 Mar. 13; Apr. 7; May 8; June 29; Oct. 14.
C. P. Snow, 6 n.d.
Otto Stern, 1928 Oct. 10.
Shepard Stone, 1967 Dec. 11. 1968 Apr. 19; May 1, 31. 1969 May 6; June 10; July 9. 1970 Jan. 19, 22, 28.
Rex Stout, 1970 Apr. 27; June 17.
Leo Szilard, 1929 Apr. 1. 1933 Aug. 17; Dec. 11. 1934 Jan. 29; July 13. 1935 June 25. 1 n.d.
R. H. Tawney, 1943 July 1. 1944 Mar. 18.
A. J. P. Taylor, 1933 Sept. 21. 1 n.d.
Paul Tillich, 1963 May 21; June 4.
Alexander R. Todd, 1938 July 26.
Samuel Tolansky, 1942 Feb. 9, 12.
Theodore Von Karman, 1920 Mar. 17.
Sir Geoffrey Vickers, 1967 Dec. 12, 15. 1970 Jan. 30; July 5; Aug. 31; Oct. 2, 5, 7; Dec. 7, 10. 1971 Oct. 4 1972 Dec. 8. 1973 Mar. 27.
C. H. Waddington, 1960 Dec. 31. 1961 Jan. 3.
George Wald, 1964 May 30.
Sir Francis Walshe, 1956 June 17. 1957 May 11. 1963 Oct. 20, 26. 1964 Nov. 27. 1969 Aug. 1, 4. 1970 Sept. 16, 19; Oct. 5; Nov. 6, 13. 1971 Mar. 10.
Otto Warburg, 2 n.d.
Marx Wartofsky, 1969 July 29. 1971 June 21.
Dame Veronica Wedgwood, 1956 July 24. 1962 Sept. 23. 1963 Sept. 27. 1966 Oct. 2. 1970 May 14. 1972 July 19, 25; Aug. 8. 1973 Oct. 5. 7 n.d.
Sir Vincent Wigglesworth, 1972 Oct. 12, 19, 25.
Eugene Wigner, 1932 Oct. 18. 1933 Feb. 2; Apr. 13; June 25, 30; July 31; Oct. 7; Nov. 6. 1934 Jan. 12, 13; Apr. 7, 14; June 27; July 2; Aug. 3; Sept. 27. 1936 Dec. 8. 1937 June 23; Sept. 6; Oct. 5. 1938 Sept. 25. 1939 Sept. 19. 1940 Sept. 1. 1961 Apr. 3; June 20. 1962 Dec. 17. 1965 Dec. 30. 1966 Jan. 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 18. 1968 Mar. 24. 1969 Sept. 4, 20. 1970 Jan. 26; Feb. 2; Mar. 23; Apr. 7; Nov. 2, 11; Dec. 15. 1971 Feb. 4; Mar. 16, 22; Apr. 24; May 3; Dec. 14, 16. 1972; Feb. 21; Mar. 4; Apr. 18; Dec. 2. 1973 June 14; July 28; Sept. 23; Oct. 25; Nov. 25. 1974 Feb. 2; Mar. 17; May 8. 10 n.d.
Dorothy Wrinch, 1935 Dec. 5.
This series includes all letters in the collection written to and by Michael Polanyi, Magda Polanyi, and Cecile Polanyi. The correspondence is arranged chronologically with undated letters organized alphabetically by correspondent at the end of the series. There are two folders of unidentified, undated correspondence and fragments following the identified undated correspondence (14:13-14). Letters from John R. Baker, Marjorie Grene, Joseph H. Oldham, Julius and Elsa Hollo, Harry Prosch, Karl and Ilona Polanyi, and Cecile Polanyi have been separately arranged (Boxes 14-20).
The correspondence in the Polanyi Papers amply documents the development of his scientific researches. His early scientific studies of adsorption and reaction kinetics are mentioned in several letters from the 1917-1919 period (1:5). In the autumn of 1920, he joined the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute; until 1933, when Polanyi left Berlin, he corresponded regularly with many of the leading scientists of Germany (1:6-2:15) and the larger European community (including James Franck, Otto Hahn, Werner Heisenberg, Wilfred Heller, and Leo Szilard.)
The Notes are divided into subject and author sections. The subject notes have been drawn together from materials originally labeled "miscellaneous" by Professor Polanyi's secretary. They have been organized topically and placed in alphabetical order. The author notes are compilations of quotes by and commentaries on authors whose work interested Polanyi. All of the author notes are grouped together and are arranged alphabetically by last name.
Series III, Manuscripts contains drafts and final copies of lectures and publications, German scientific manuscripts, speeches of introduction and thanks, patents, records of laboratory financial expenditures, poetry, notebooks, and bibliographic citations.
The drafts and final copies of lectures and publications (25:8-43:2) have been arranged chronologically by order of composition, with undated manuscripts listed alphabetically at the end of the section. Within yearly groups, the manuscripts are arranged alphabetically by the titles given them at the time of composition. All titles are in italics except for chapter headings and untitled manuscripts, identified by first line of text, which are placed in quotation marks. Brief manuscripts of less than five pages are ordered in folders labeled "miscellaneous short manuscripts." The manuscripts have not been matched with any bibliography of Polanyi's published or unpublished writings except as an aid in determining the date of composition. Revised versions of manuscripts are placed under the date of revision and not under the date of original composition. An exception to this rule occurs when a group of manuscripts have been brought together for a specific lecture, such as occurs in 33:1-4. In such an instance, the manuscripts are organized under the date of the lecture with the date of original composition listed parenthetically.
The remaining manuscripts (44:3-44:11) follow the drafts and final copies of lectures and publications. The German scientific manuscripts (43:3-4) are fragmentary and contain little substantive information on the scientific work of Professor Polanyi. The speeches of introduction and thanks (43:5) consist of brief remarks made by Polanyi at banquets and conferences. The patents and records of laboratory expenditures (43:6-7) contain fragmentary evidence for Polanyi's work at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute between 1923 and 1933. The small section of poetry (43:8) holds verses by Michael Polanyi as well as poems written for him on special occasions. The nine notebooks in the collection are difficult to categorize because of diverse contents. There are four short and jumbled diaries covering the period 1926-1947 (44:1-4). In addition there are four undated notebooks (44:5) which contain brief thoughts and comments on miscellaneous authors, the English countryside, the weather, and other equally diverse subject matter. The final notebook (44:6) is an obsolete index to Professor Polanyi's correspondence files. The manuscripts series concludes with five folders of bibliographic citations.
The earliest dated manuscripts are from 1936 and deal exclusively with economics and philosophy. There is one small group of scientific manuscripts (43:3-4,7) but they are fragmentary and indicate little about Polanyi's scientific work. The sections on science in the research notes (22:7-12) are philosophical in nature. Manuscripts such as the 1935 lectures on economics (25:9), the 1943 essays on economic planning (28:1-3), and the 1944 Principles of Economic Expansion (29:11-12) are interesting interpretations of Keynesian thought. Other manuscripts from this period like the 1938 Reflections on Marxism (25:16), the 1940 Collectivist Planning (26:3), and the 1947 Soviets and Capitalism (31:4) are criticisms of Soviet economics. By contrast, the notes contain little of relevance to Polanyi's economic thought. There are a few general notes on economic subjects (21:6) as well as material on individual economists like Keynes and von Hayek, but the majority of economic material is found in the correspondence and manuscripts.
Memorabilia in the Polanyi Papers falls into five groups: photographs and postcards; personal materials (addresses, announcements, Christmas cards, invitations, obituaries, programs, receipts, reports, etc.); miscellaneous clippings and multi-media; offprints by Michael Polanyi; and offprints by other authors and other secondary published works, including photocopied records of Polanyi's collection of books.
The photographs are of Michael Polanyi, his family and friends. If known, the name of the subject is indicated on the back of the print. The clippings include letters and articles by Michael Polanyi, as well as reviews of Polanyi's work, dissertations which address Polanyi's thought, and articles by Polanyi's mother Cecile (mostly copies of her fashion column in a Budapest newspaper). Other items include a small group of clippings and other printed materials from the German National Socialist period, as well as taped and filmed interviews with Polanyi. This collection also holds offprints and some privately distributed lecture material by Michael Polanyi. Offprints by other authors which remain in this collection have been annotated by Polanyi, or bear holograph inscriptions by their original authors. Finally, this collection holds six volumes of bound photocopies of the title pages of the books in Polanyi's collection, which were dispersed in 1994.
The Primavera Records are organized into eight series: Series I: Administrative; Series II: Content and Design; Series III: Magazines; Series IV: The Other Side of the Hill; Series V: Photographs; Series VI: Oversize; and Series VII: Restricted. The collection contains records, correspondence, submissions, marketing materials, proofs, layouts, and published volumes of the literary magazine. Materials date from 1975 to 2006. The records document some of the financial and legal matters surrounding the running of a non-profit literary magazine, sources of grant funding, and include several folders of reviews and press mentions. There is a considerable amount of advertising and promotional material, including Primavera ad copy in various stages of creation and pieces of copy from outside advertisers. Much of the collection comprises accepted manuscripts (often accompanied by notes from the editorial board and ensuing correspondence with the author) and proofs. Series VI contains complete sets of paste-ups (layouts) for several issues and a set of (layout) flats with printer negatives for Vol. 1.
Included in the collection is a complete run of the published magazine with the exception of Vol. 9.
Series I contains materials relating to the non-editorial operation of the magazine, its history and reception in the press, and correspondence (except manuscript acceptances). The series is arranged by type of material: internal correspondence and memos, meeting minutes, personal/contributor and business correspondence, promotional materials, ad copy, budgets, grant materials, reviews, and articles about the magazine and about feminist publications generally. There are a few items of personal ephemera, presumably from members of the editorial board, at the end of the series.
Series II contains manuscript acceptances (including, in most cases, notes made by the editorial board about the pieces accepted), typescripts with printer's notes, proofs and galleys, and layouts. These are grouped by issue and arranged chronologically.
Series III contains a complete published run of Primavera, with the exception of Vol. 9.
Series IV contains materials related to the publication of a book of poems by Margaret Pearce Rummel, undertaken at the behest of her son by Primavera editor Ruth Young and designer Lisa Grayson.
Series V contains snapshots of Primavera staff members at a gathering in the late 1970s or early 1980s, several photo collages of contributors to issue 6/7, photographs submitted to the magazine, and photographs related to the Other Side of the Hill project.
Series VI contains oversized paste-ups, dummies, and other layouts for Primavera, and layouts for The Other Side of the Hill and Health and Medicine, both designed by Lisa Grayson. Primavera materials are arranged chronologically with the exception of vol. 1 and vol. 9, which are separated due to size.
Series VII contains recommendation letters for members of Primavera staff, which are restricted for 50 years from date of creation, and a box of subscriber records on note cards, which are restricted for 30 years.
The Edward Kirby Putnam Notebooks, dating from 1894 to 1896, are of interest chiefly as they afford a glimpse into the nature of graduate study in English at the University of Chicago in the 1890' s. They show in what manner courses were taught, what materials were used, and what critical approaches were taken. Included in the Notebooks are course schedules, outlines, syllabi, bibliographies, class notes, class reports, and drafts of term papers.
In addition to the English notebooks, there are materials from two courses in sociology given by Professor Charles Richmond Henderson. A special feature of these materials is an extensive listing, with addresses, of British and American settlement houses.
Series I. PUGWASH CONFERENCE MATERIALS
Series I is divided into twenty-one subseries, documenting the most of the First through Nineteenth Pugwash Conferences, the 1954 Conference, and several Pugwash Symposiums. (Records for the fifth, eighth, twelfth, and fourteenth Pugwash Conferences are not included.) This records include agendas, copies of papers presented and speeches given at the conferences, lists of participants, minutes, conference statements, press releases, and notes.
Series II. PROFESSIONAL AND ACADEMIC MATERIALS
Series II documents Rabinowitch's professional work beyond participation in the Pugwash Conferences, primarily his career in academia and as editor for the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists as well as his ongoing interest in atomic science. It is divided into six subseries.
Subseries 1 includes lecture notes and a resume. Subseries 2 is a collection of reports, pamphlets and articles on science in the Soviet Union, reflecting Rabinowitch's keen interest in science globally and politically. Subseries 3 are Rabinowitch's notes for speeches and talks. Subseries 4 contains clippings on science, politics and nuclear weapons. Rabinowitch's correspondence with individuals is in Subseries 5; including letters from Topchiev and Skobeltzyn, representing the Soviet Academy of Science. Correspondence with associations and institutions is in Subseries 6. These last two subseries include many draft articles and discussion about publication of publication, by Rabinowitch and others.
This collection contains ephemera pertaining to American reactionary politics from 1939 to 1950. The bulk of the collection dates from 1944 to 1946. Included are newspaper clippings, flyers, pamphlets, postcards, newsletters, notes, and other similar pieces of ephemera covering topics such as anti-Semitism, communism, isolationism, nationalism, racism, fascism, and other issues related to ultraconservative social, religious, and economic movements. The collection contains ephemera produced by conservative and liberal individuals or groups. Materials are arranged alphabetically by subject or name.
This collection is divided into three series:
Series I: Research and Writings, contains Reid's research data and notes. "Data" refers both to raw data and calculations. The series includes correspondence, as well as articles, conference papers, and drafts of papers and books authored by Reid and other scholars. Of note is material related to her early research into household production and consumption, drawn from agricultural stations and farm agencies during the 1930s and 1940s. Oversized data has been transferred to Series III. Material spans the 1937 through 1986.
Subseries II: Personal, contains address books, bills, cards, certificates, clippings, personal correspondence, prints, a passport, and a journal. It also contains photographs of Reid's friends and family. Oversized certificates have been transferred to Series III. Material spans 1904-1990.
Subseries III: Oversize, contains clippings, certificates, and research data, transferred from Series I and II. It includes a copy of Reid's book Consumers and the Market. Newspaper clippings are in poor condition. Material spans 1938-1977.
This series contains Reid's research data and notes. "Data" refers both to raw data and calculations. The series includes articles, conference papers, and drafts of papers and books. These were authored by Reid unless otherwise noted. Some folders contain related correspondence and one includes teaching materials. Oversize material has been moved to Series III. Material is divided into five subseries:
Subseries 1: Household Economics, contains material related to Reid's early research and publication on household consumption and production. The bulk of the data and notes in this subseries were drawn from agricultural stations and collected by the Farm Security Administration (FSA) and Farmers' Home Administration (FAH); these loan agencies required farm families to keep detailed income and expenditure records during the 1930s and 1940s. These records are of particular note. Also of note are clippings and correspondence on the oleomargarine controversy at Iowa State College during 1943 and 1944, while Reid was faculty there. When faculty recommended wartime use of oleomargarine, the Iowa dairy lobby pressured the administration to change their publication. Some faculty resigned in protest. Material spans the 1930s-1979, primarily covering the period between 1937 and 1951. It is organized alphabetically by topic and title.
Subseries 2: Income and Consumption, covers the middle part of Reid's career and documents her interest in the demographics of income and consumption, particularly in urban areas. This subseries contains data, research notes, and book drafts. It spans 1950-1978 and is organized alphabetically by topic and title.
Subseries 3: Income and Health, contains data, notes, and drafts on the relationship between health, income, and productivity. These topics preoccupied Reid in the final stages of her career. Material spans 1964-1985, primarily covering the 1970s and early 1980s. It is organized alphabetically by topic and title.
Subseries 4: General, contains computations, data, and research notes on unidentified topics. In also contains indexed bibliographies. It includes Reid's cv a list of her publications. Much of this material is undated, though it appears to cover the 1930s up to 1981.
Subseries 5: Writings by Others, contains articles and papers written by other scholars. Reports by government departments or other institutions are filed by topic along with other research material in the preceding subseries. These writings are organized by author and span the 1930s-1986.
This series is divided into two subseries:
Subseries 1: Papers, contains address books, bills, cards, certificates, clippings, personal correspondence, prints, a passport, and a journal. Of note is the journal, which details faculty politics at Iowa State College circa 1943. Oversized certificates have been moved to Series III. Material spans 1933-1986.
Subseries 2: Photographs, contains photographs of Reid's friends and family from 1904-1990.
This series contains clippings, certificates, and research data. It includes a copy of Reid's book Consumers and the Market. Newspaper clippings are in poor condition. They relate to controversies at the University of Illinois during Howard Bowen's tenure as Dean of the College of Commerce and Business Administration. Bowen was forced to resign in 1950 and his departure was followed by a wave of resignations by economics faculty. A copy of resignation letter written by chair Everett E. Hagen can be found in Series I, Subseries 1, under "University of Illinois." This series covers 1938-1977.
The Renaissance Seminar Records consist of correspondence between Seminar leaders Edward Lowinsky and Eric Cochrane, Seminar participants and guest lecturers (1964-1976). The collection also includes minutes, membership lists, and meeting notices (1964-1976).
The Rachel Marshall Goetz Papers consist of six series. Series I contains Goetz’s early work on new media and their potential uses in government. Series II holds papers relating to her work in Adlai Stevenson’s 1956 presidential campaign staff and her later writing on national politics. Series III consists of writing and research on local Hyde Park politics and the Hyde Park-Kenwood Urban Renewal Project. Series IV contains personal writings, clippings, and photographs, including items related to Goetz’s egg art and material about her father, Leon C. Marshall. Series V holds audio resources including reel-to-reel tapes and cassette tapes. Series VI contains the collection’s oversized materials, such as posters and photographs.
Series I contains much of Goetz’s early work on the use of new media by state and local governments. Included here are her two presentation binders on the use of visual aids, "Untapped Potential" and "Visual Aids and State Governments," as well as her book, Visual Aids for the Public Service, published in English and in a Vietnamese translation. Materials relating to Goetz’s 1954-1955 University of Chicago course on public television, Communications 311, The Communication of Ideas by Television, are also contained here. Additionally, Series I holds photocopies of book reviews written by Goetz for the United States Information Agency between 1959 and 1976. A box of slides relating to "Visual Aids and State Governments" is housed in Series VI.
Series II houses materials relating to Goetz’s work in national politics in the 1950s. The majority of the series contains documents from Adlai Stevenson’s 1956 presidential campaign, including drafts of speeches, memoranda, position papers, and correspondence. Additionally, the series holds drafts, correspondence, and a final manuscript of the 1958 book Goetz co-authored with Chicago politician Robert Merriam, Going Into Politics.
Series III contains papers relating to Goetz’s work on the Hyde Park-Kenwood urban renewal project of the 1950s and 1960s and her general research and writing on urban renewal in the wake of Hyde Park’s success. Included here are Goetz’s subject folders on the Hyde Park-Kenwood project, holding newspapers clippings, correspondence, and meeting minutes. The series also contains drafts and manuscripts of her three books on urban renewal, The Hidden Price of Urban Renewal, Middle-Income Housing, and her significant revision of Peter Rossi and Robert Dentler’s The Politics of Urban Renewal. An oversized map of the Hyde Park-Kenwood Urban Renewal Project is also held in Series VI.
Series IV holds personal information on Goetz and her family. A significant portion of the series relates to Goetz’s egg art, a project to which she dedicated herself from the mid-1970s until her death in 1994. Newspaper clippings, correspondence, and many photographs of her decorated eggs are included here. The series also holds a small amount of Goetz’s work with Midway Editorial Research, a Chicago-based research firm which she co-founded in the mid-1960s. Additionally, materials relating to Goetz’s father, Leon Carroll Marshall, are housed in this series. These documents include newspaper clippings, photographs, and correspondence regarding Marshall’s life and Goetz’s work to establish a University of Chicago business school scholarship in his name.
Series V contains reel-to-reel and cassette tapes with a variety of content. Most of the reel-to-reel tapes are unidentified. The cassette tapes include a series of oral history interviews conducted with Goetz by Mary Alzina Stone Dale, daughter of Goetz’s close friend, Ursula Batchelder Stone.
Series V: Audio Material
Series VI contains oversize material and artifacts transferred from previous series. Included here are Goetz’s collection of campaign pins from Adlai Stevenson’s 1956 presidential campaign and a box of slides containing supporting material for her early-1950s work, "Visual Aids and State Governments." Also housed in this series are two large photographs of Goetz from 1930, an oversized map of the Hyde Park-Kenwood Urban Renewal Project dated 1960, and a poster voicing the Hyde Park League of Women Voters’ support for the 1945 United Nations World Security Conference.
The Bob Richards Productions Collection contains a photograph of Ray Brown and Roy Eldridge taken by Bob Richards.
The Lower Rickert House collection contains records, photographs, news clippings, and memorabilia from the Woodward Court residential hall from 1972-2000. The collection is organized chronologically and by object type.
This collection consists primarily of reprints of articles written or co-authored by David Riesman from 1947 to 1982. The bulk of the material dates from 1950 to 1956. There are two articles at the end of the collection authored by Riesman's wife, Evelyn Thompson Riesman.
The Wyndham Robertson Papers contains approximately 2,300 letters, 1,200 receipts and accounts, and 250 deeds and legal documents. It is housed in twelve manuscript boxes. The material is broken up into four categories, the Robertson family correspondence arranged chronologically, John Robertson Correspondence, the Loyal Company papers arranged chronologically (1 1/2 boxes), and miscellaneous bound material such as account books, the family register, and books and magazines used by Robertson in his historical researches.
The family papers written before 1815 largely consist of the correspondence of Wyndham Robertson's grandfather, Archibald Robertson, a factor on the James River, to his family in Glasgow. Family affairs were the main subject of the correspondence which was continued by Wyndham's father, William. An eighteenth century commonplace book and two diaries of travel dated 1776 and July, 1797, presumably of Wyndham's father, date from this period.
In 1815 the correspondence of Wyndham, himself, commences. His early letters are principally to his father and to three of his brothers, John Robertson, member of the
Virginia legislature, attorney general of the state in 1823 and congressman, 1834; to Thomas Bolling Robertson, governor of Louisiana; and Powhatan Robertson. After his sojourn at William and Mary College from 1819 to 1821, he wrote to many of the friends he made there. From the time of his marriage to Mary F. Trigg Smith in 1831 until the Civil War, which includes the period of his governorship (1836-1838) there is singularly little in the collection dealing with his political career. The letters are addressed to Wyndham and are largely from his family and are concerned with family affairs, although in the years before 1838 Wyndham was immersed in law and politics and after that date was concerned with several business ventures. The correspondence does, however, give numerous descriptions and insights into Southern ante-bellum society. Particularly interesting in this respect are the letters of Wyndham's nephew, Henry Skipwith, and his niece, Gay Bernard, during the latter's stay in the Washington society ruled by the Calhouns. There are also some letters and accounts concerning Wyndham's estate at Abingdon, part of his wife's dowry, his plantation of Bayou Black in Louisiana, and his land speculations in Arkansas. Although there is little of sustained correspondence on political matters, the following individual letters are of interest: the original of the letter of resignation of Governor Tazewell to Wyndham Robertson, March 30, 1836; over a dozen letters written by Nicholas P. Trist to Wyndham between the years 1830 and 1860; a letter from Nicholas Biddle to Wyndham, February 21, 1839.
Beginning with the convention of 1856 and continuing through the year 1870, the correspondence is rich in political matter of the Civil War both for the state of Virginia and, especially in 1860, at the national level. The tribulations of the family during the years of battle and the struggle to retrieve the family's shattered fortunes after the war are fully recorded in their papers and letters. Noteworthy are letters from Edward Bates and General Winfield Scott during the election crisis of 1860 and from Generals Curtis Lee, Robert E. Lee, and J.E.B. Stuart, and from Samuel J. Tilden during the war.
The papers of Wyndham Robertson from the end of the Civil War until his death in 1888, although containing scattered political correspondence, are principally concerned with his business interest in the Buena Vista Plaster Company managed by himself and his two sons, Frank and Wyndham, and his antiquarian studies in the history of Virginia, particularly work on his book, The Descendants of Pocahontas, which was undertaken even before the outbreak of the Civil War. Wyndham Robertson was particularly proud of his descent from Pocahontas (he named one of his children Pocahontas, and another Powhatan). His genealogical papers contain extensive early documentation of the history of the Boiling family.
During the last years of his life, Wyndham had an active correspondence with other famous Virginia historians of his day such as William Wirt Henry, Alexander Brown, Hugh B. Grigsby, Conway Robinson, and Phillip S. Slaughter. The papers from 1888 to 1925, the date of the sale of the Buena Vista Plaster Company, record the growth of the Company and its problems under Wyndham's sons, Frank and Wyndham. Some reminiscences of the younger Robertsons are also contained in this part of the collection.
Because of its unique political interest the correspondence between Wyndham and his elder brother, John, extending from 1818 to 1872 has been treated as a distinct series within the collection. John Robertson sent lengthy reports of the current Washington scene after his election to Congress in 1834.
The papers of the Loyal Company of Virginia, previously dispersed by date through the collection, comprise a third chronological series, bearing no relationship to the rest of the Robertson papers. Captain Francis Smith, Wyndham's father-in-law, was a leading member of the Loyal Company during its last years. Wyndham apparently acquired the papers when he became executor of Smith's estate in 1840. The papers date from the mid-eighteenth century and contain land surveys, receipts, land grants, accounts, and records of court litigations. Notable are a series of fourteen grants of land on parchment dated between 1785 and 1834 signed by the following governors of Virginia: Patrick Henry, Edmund Randolph, Beverly Randolph, Robert Brooke, James Wood, James Monroe, John Page, James Barbour, and Littleton W. Tazewell.
Three groups of papers comprise the fourth series, Miscellaneous Robertson Papers, at the end of the collection: Robertson's Library of Books and Magazines Used in his Historical Researches; Scrapbooks and Diaries; and Robertson's Research Papers on the Descendants of Pocahontas.
The Earl Rosenthal Papers are arranged into three series: Series I: Personal; Series II: Research; and Series III: Teaching. The collection contains college yearbooks; research notebooks and reading notes in various formats; bibliographies and lecture notes for courses taught. Materials date between 1942 and 1998, with the bulk of the materials being notes taken and revised from about 1990 to 1998. The papers primarily document Rosenthal's early work as an observant art historian in Spain, Italy, and Mexico, his continuously revised notes on the scholarship of his field, and his well-known course lectures on the diffusion of the arts throughout renaissance Europe.
Series I, Personal, contains two yearbooks from the Milwaukee State Teachers College, 1942 and 1943, now known as the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, where Rosenthal obtained his Bachelor's degree in 1943.
Series II, Research, contains 19 notebooks from Rosenthal's early research trips to Europe and Mexico in the late 1940s and 1950, as well as many loose reading notes on various topics which Rosenthal had kept in shoeboxes. Of particular interest are the field notebooks, which include many on-site sketches of architectural details and monuments. Rosenthal was known to use his own personally-made measurements in his publications on Spanish architecture. One undated and unlabeled notebook of the kind used for documenting research trips to Mexico appears to also contain Rosenthal's personal reflections and includes notes taken on a lecture attended at the University of Chicago. Subsequent reading notes in this series come in all forms and sizes and include recurring subjects and some revising statements. Note subjects include (but are not limited to) German thinkers, Romanticism, the Enlightenment, historiography, nationalism (particularly German), and topics in Christianity.
Series III, Teaching, consists of material Rosenthal used for his various lectures on the "Diffusion of the Renaissance." These include typed-out lectures with added handwritten notes, various bibliographies, and detailed handwritten, fold-out timelines of renaissance art and architecture in France and Spain. Of note is Rosenthal's typed lecture in Spanish for a course he taught at the University of Granada, Spain.
This collection contains a variety of artifacts and print ephemera. Included are political material from the 20th century, University of Chicago and Hyde Park memorabilia, a small collection of recipes and information on home remedies, and patriotic items. The cigar box in which this material was found is also included.
The papers are divided into three series. Series I contains biographical material, including clippings and personal correspondence. Series II includes professional correspondence, organized alphabetically by correspondent. Also in the series are materials Ruml received as part of his work with various organization, particularly the Committee for Economic Development (CED).
Series III, Speeches and Writings contains manuscripts, reprints and associated materials and correspondence for articles, papers, memoranda and speeches Ruml wrote and delivered from 1917 through 1959. Several files concern the Pay-As-You-Go tax scheme.
The Jean Baptiste Say Collection contains a small series of letters sent from Say to a number of French contemporaries. Some letters are undated, but the dates available suggest these letters were written between 1794 and 1821. One letter appears to be a draft of a contract between Say and Jean François Pierre Deterville, a French publisher.
The collection was previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
The Schaffner Collection is divided into six series. The first four are distinct collections of the manuscripts of Madame Marie Curie, Charles Darwin, Albert Einstein, and Sir Isaac Newton. Also included are a group of miscellaneous manuscripts removed from various volumes in the Joseph Halle Schaffner Collection of printed books. The history of the collection is documented in the Joseph Halle Schaffner Papers, the sixth series of this collection, which consists primarily of records relating to his activities as a collector and records of the use made of the collection during his lifetime by scholars and in exhibitions. For a different and more personal perspective on the collector’s life the reader is referred to another collection in the University of Chicago Library, the Carl Sandburg - Joseph Halle Schaffner Correspondence.
Series I: Curie-Kellogg Correspondence and Curie Memorabilia
When Pierre and Marie Curie first published their work on radium in the 1890s, they decided they would seek no profit from their discovery though even then its great commercial potential was apparent. As a consequence of this decision, they labored under a great financial handicap. When the American journalist, Marie Meloney interviewed Mme. Curie after the First World War, she was astonished to learn that the work of the French scientist was hampered by a shortage of radium (Mme. Curie had about a gram in her laboratory at that time) while in the United States some fifty grams were stockpiled around the country. Out of this meeting and this promise grew the Marie Curie Radium Fund, through which the women of American presented Mme. Curie with a gram of radium. Charlotte Kellogg (Mrs. Vernon Kellogg), an author and friend of Meloney, worked on the fund raising drive, and a warm friendship developed between her and Mme. Curie. During the French scientist’s visit to the United States in 1921 to accept the gram of radium, Curie had been persuaded by Meloney to write on her own life and the life of her deceased husband, Pierre. In 1923 Charlotte Kellogg and her husband translated this autobiographical account into English. Another gram of radium was given in 1929, this time for the establishment of radium therapy services in Mme. Curie’s native Warsaw.
The Schaffner Collection includes: ten pieces of correspondence by Marie Curie (nine originals and one typescript copy); typescript copies of Einstein’s eulogy of Curie, her 1921 speech of acceptance for the radium gift, and Charlotte Kellogg’s memoir of Mme. Curie; photographs of Charlotte Kellogg and Marie Meloney; and assorted memorabilia.
Series II: Charles Darwin Correspondence
The Darwin correspondence contains material written and received by Darwin and his family from 1869 to 1904.
Series III: Albert Einstein - Walther Mayer Correspondence and Einstein Photographs
The letters from Albert Einstein to Walther Mayer constitute an important body of documentation touching on both the development of the Unified Field Theory and the dramatic personal events experienced by these two men during the years of the Nazi rise to power. The association of Einstein with the talented Austrian mathematician began during the late 1920s in Germany. Though Mayer is often spoken of as Einstein’s assistant and though his role was largely that of providing the mathematical apparatus necessary to the elaboration of the new theory, Einstein himself referred to their joint achievement as “our theory” and praised Mayer in the highest terms: “It is he who produced all my calculations; his skill is fantastic.” During a period of growing political turbulence in Germany when Einstein was traveling and, later, when he had gone into exile, the friendship and collaboration of the two men was carried on largely by mail. The letters give indications of the keenly felt personal turmoil of the two before they both finally settled at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton in 1933.
By letter, during the years 1930 to 1933, Einstein and Mayer collaborated on what has been called Einstein’s “most ambitious theory” and a “triumph of human spirit over the chaos of the universe.” Following the announcement of the Unified Field Theory in 1931, Mayer explained the significance of the joint accomplishment:
The general relativity theory suffered from a dualism: adequate for gravitation, it harbored the electro-magnetic field as a foreign body, and its formulas Professor Einstein had to introduce artificially, as it were.
This dualism is abolished in the new theory, which subsumes both gravitation and electricity under one comprehensive theory of the same architecture throughout.
The Joseph Halle Schaffner Collection of Scientific Manuscripts includes some eighty letters, mostly from the crucial 1930-33 period, from Einstein to Mayer and a number of photographs of the two men.
Series IV: Sir Isaac Newton, 1642-1727
The material pertaining to Newton includes manuscripts, notes, letters, and diagrams by and about Newton.
Series V: Miscellaneous Scientific Manuscripts
The Miscellaneous Manuscripts include notes, a translation, and a letter dated from 1744 to 1820.
Series VI: Schaffner Collection Records
The Joseph Halle Schaffner Papers (1943-1961) are also included and contain material relating to Schaffner's activities as a collector and how the collections were used by scholars and in exhibits.
The Marjorie Preston Schulz Papers include materials relating to Schulz's years at Hyde Park High School and the University of Chicago.
The majority of photographs are portraits sponsored by the University of Chicago taken by Watson-Schütze of various faculty, family and friends of the University. Also included are a portrait of William Butler Yeats and a sketch of Eva Watson Schutze, by Francis Fox.
The records of the Emil Schwarzhaupt Foundation comprise minutes, correspondence, and financial records of the Foundation, as well as applications, recommendations, correspondence, reports, newsletters, news clippings, and pamphlets of sixty-five organizations that applied to the Foundation for support.
The Schwarzhaupt records are important documents for studying a major shift in the understanding of democratic participation in the mid-twentieth century. In the Foundation's certificate of incorporation in 1936 Emil Schwarzhaupt wrote of:
the up building and betterment of American citizenship and increasing among all American citizens, and especially among the foreign born, the knowledge of the history of the United States Government and the meaning of the obligations and privileges of citizenship in the United States of America.
This idealistic conception of citizenship and the state was in contrast to the actual practice of the Foundation after 1950 in awarding grants to such organizations as Saul Alinsky's Industrial Areas Foundation, and the Highlander Folk School, which emphasized a more confrontational understanding of citizenship under the rubric of "community organizing." The career of the Schwarzhaupt Foundation thus embodied a tension between theory and practice that is reflected in the varied approaches adopted by the organizations it funded. It is the records of these diverse organizations and groups that comprise the bulk of this collection.
The records of the Emil Schwarzhaupt Foundation have been divided into three series: Series I (Boxes 1-6) contains the administrative records of the Foundation, Series II (Boxes 6-51) contains records of the organizations having dealings with the Foundation, and Series III (Box 52) contains photographs.
Series I: ADMINISTRATIVE RECORDS
The first series includes general records of the Foundation relating to its administration and finances. This series is divided into ten subject headings: Organizational and Disbursement of Emil Schwarzhaupt Estate, covering activities before 1952; University of Chicago Committee on Education for American Citizenship: Recommendations; Minutes and Financial Reports; Financial Statements and Tax Returns; Correspondence covering the day-to-day activities of the Foundation; Activity Reports; Grant Application Recommendations, containing many initial recommendations written between 1954 and 1955 by Tjerandsen; Evaluation Report of Highlander Folk School and Industrial Areas Foundation, containing the correspondence and final report of J. Herman Blake, who was commissioned to study two Schwarzhaupt-Funded projects in the Sea Islands of South Carolina and in the Woodlawn neighborhood of Chicago; Emil Schwarzhaupt Foundation: Final Report, containing correspondence, notes, and drafts, along with a published copy of the report, Education for Citizenship; and American Indian Background Material Gathered by Carl Tjerandsen, which includes general notes and correspondence of Tjerandsen as well as newsletters and clippings.
Series II. APPLICATIONS FOR FUNDS AND GRANTS
This series contains the applications, recommendations, correspondence and reports of 65 organizations which applied to the Schwarzhaupt Foundation for funds, listed in alphabetical order. Tjerandsen, in his book, grouped the organizations into three types depending on their program's purpose: 1) Organizations preparing aliens for citizenship as well as patriotic organizations fostering allegiance to the country; 2) groups and program promoting awareness of civil liberties, and also groups promoting electoral participation and effective functioning of political parties; and 3) groups and programs developing personal attributes such as courage and personal character considered essential to democracy, as well as groups engaged in active community organizing. Under the heading for each organization the files are arranged in the following order:
Application and Recommendations. Under this heading appear the application and proposal submitted by organizations to the Schwarzhaupt Foundation, along with the recommendations or appraisals written by Tjerandsen for the trustees. On occasion the applying organization also submitted a statement of non-profit status for tax purposes which is included here.
Correspondence. This heading contains letters, telegrams, memoranda, notes of telephone conversations, and Tjerandsen's notes of visits and conversations in the field.
Reports. This heading contains the progress, annual, and final reports made by the grant recipients to the foundation. Not all recipients were required to submit reports at the conclusion of their projects.
Newsletters. Any newsletters published by the project were passed on to the Foundation. The name of the newsletter is given first, followed by the dates of the newsletter represented in the files.
Pamphlets. This includes other published material by the grant recipients. The Foundation requested that such materials be sent on a regular basis.
Article Reprints. If the project or the Schwarzhaupt Foundation was mentioned in an article, the grantee usually passed it along to the Foundation.
News Clippings. Any publicity covering the project or the Schwarzhaupt Foundation was usually forwarded to the Foundation.
When the amount of material for an organization is small, the reports are combined with the applications and recommendations.
Of particular interest might be the files centering on two of the most significant projects funded by the Schwarzhaupt Foundation: the Industrial Areas Foundation, headed by Saul Alinsky; and the Highlander Folk School Project, whose "citizenship classes" in the South were eventually incorporated into the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, headed by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
The range of Alinsky's IAF extended from the community organizing work in The Woodlawn Organization to one of the most successful efforts to register Mexican-Americans to vote. The IAF organized groups known as Community Service Organizations (CSO) in towns throughout California. The CSO were eventually able to register over 400,000 voters, and as their support grew, they were able to successfully confront discrimination and to demand better treatment.
Box 29 Folder 18 contains correspondence between Alinsky and the Foundation's president, Adolph Hirsch, and the Foundation's secretary, Carl Tjerandsen, from 1964 to 1968. A number of the letters deal with the Foundation's difficulty in getting Alinsky to file project reports. In one such letter from January 10, 1966, Tjerandsen sought to impress the urgency of the reports upon Alinsky by reminding him that "about one-third of the Emil Schwarzhaupt Foundation's funds were committed to the projects sponsored or supervised by the Industrial Areas Foundation," i.e., Alinsky's organization. In addition Box 31, Folder 1 contains the following essays and reports by Alinsky: "Action to Equality of Opportunity," "Citizen Participation and Community Organization in Planning and Urban Renewal" (January 29, 1962), "Civil Rights Housing Hearing: Commission on Civil Rights" (May 5, 1959), and "Seminar on Mass Organization" (August-September, 1965).
The connection with Martin Luther King, Jr. came through the Schwarzhaupt Foundation's support of project sponsoring citizenship classes, the Highlander Folk School. Tjerandsen found this project to be the most influential and far-reaching of all the programs supported by the Foundation.
The idea of citizenship classes grew out of an application written by Myles Horton, a director of Highlander, in 1952. The Highlander project began on John's Island, near Charleston, South Carolina, under the direction of Septima
Clark and Esau Jenkins, and emphasized voter registration and civic education. As Myles Horton once put it: "What is too big for one person to handle can be figured out by all of us together. We will have a new kind of school-not a school for teaching reading, writing and arithmetic, but a school for problems."
Boxes 22-25 contain extensive material on the Highlander Folk School with important documents discussing the shift of the citizenship classes from Highlander to the SCLC. The best general discussion of the transfer of the transfer of the classes occurs in the essay, "A Workshop for Volunteer Teachers in the Citizenship Program of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, 1965" (24:15). As early as 1961, however, a "Memorandum on Citizenship Program" (24:6) emphasized the transition of the classes to the SCLC. Significant to the continuity of the program developed by the SCLC was the retention of Highlander's Director of Education, Septima Clark. By 1967, there were over three thousand citizenship teachers who had helped hundreds of thousands of blacks to register to vote. Although the Schwarzhaupt Foundation did not fund the educational efforts of the SCLC (which was supported by the Field Foundation), its work with Highlander prepared the way for the development of such a program.
Other significant projects assisted by the Schwarzhaupt Foundation include: the American Indian Conference in Chicago in 1962, which drew over 800 Indians from more than 90 tribes-the largest gathering of Indians to that point to discuss problems and concerns; the American Council for Emigres in the Professions (ACEP); the Hyde Park-Kenwood Community Conference; and the Migrant Citizen Education Project.
Series III. PHOTOGRAPHS
This series contains four folders of black and white photographs of activities from a number of organizations, along with color slides from an additional group. Folder 1 contains photographs emphasizing the people with whom the Highlander Project worked in the rural South. Folder 2 illustrates classroom situations of the Highlander citizenship classes. Folder 3 portrays activities and gatherings of the Hyde Park-Kenwood Community Conference, and other groups including Migrant Ministry. Folder 4 contains color slides of the Gallup Citizenship Education Program used in class presentations.
The papers include Scott's lecture notes include work on the Work of Foreign Missions, Introduction to a Course of Study in Theology and lectures on Church History, covering the complete history of the Christian Church from its foundation until 1904. Scott prepared his lectures in written sentence form and they are, therefore, very readable. The notes are dated from 1894 to 1909
The Seven Woods Press Records are divided into four series: Series I, Administrative; Series II, Publications; Series III, Oversize; Series IV, Restricted. The Seven Woods Press Records document aspects of the publisher from beginning to end of operation, including financial, production and distribution records, advertising and promotional material, correspondence, manuscripts, reviews, magazines, newspapers, and photographs. It also includes material from other poetry and publication businesses.
Series I, Administrative, contains financial and production records, advertisements and publicity, articles, reviews, ephemera, photographs, and correspondence. The financial and production records are primarily invoices, receipts, and book orders, as well as production materials about type setting, printing and design, and other publishing services used. The advertising material is correspondence with publications such as The New York Times and Harpers, as well as fliers, magazines and posters with advertisements. The correspondence is primarily from authors and poets, as well as other business and personal correspondence with George Koppelman. There are also applications for awards and grants. Other material pertains to the publishing industry in general, including materials from other press companies, events and exhibits, and correspondence from various organizations. Reviews and articles are in publications such as Publisher’s Weekly, Time, Margins, Library Journal and Small Press Review. See Series II for additional correspondence. See Series III for additional administrative material.
Series II, Publications, contains manuscripts, proofs, correspondence, publicity and reviews for the publications produced by Seven Woods Press. Most correspondence is between Koppelman and the authors, and some is concerned with research and production. Also included are designs and artwork for the publication covers and title pages, and proofs from the design and printing company Profile Press. There is also information about and manuscripts from individual authors. See Series I for additional correspondence. See Series III for additional publication materials.
Series III, Oversize, contains magazines, newspapers, reviews, proofs, articles, and publicity. There are posters and ephemera advertising events and conferences as well as for poetry readings from The Academy of American Poets, The Manhattan Theatre Club, and The Poetry Center. See Series I for additional administrative material. See Series II for additional publications material.
Series IV, Restricted, includes financial material that is restricted until 2033.
Series IV, Restricted, includes financial material that is restricted until 2033.
The Benjamin Shackelford papers consist of lecture notes taken while Shackelford was a graduate student in Physics at the University of Chicago (1915-1917). The collection includes notes from classes given by Frederick Lindemann, Albert Abraham Michelson, Robert Andrews Millikan, Arthur Lunn, and Gilbert Bliss.
During the year 1954-55, these records were removed from storage in the basement of Swift Hall and deposited in the University Archives Their present organization is based on the arrangement at the time of transfer and in general reflects their original arrangement as working files The many relationships of the School and of Shailer Mathews with other organizations are not easily discernable in the present basic chronological arrangement but it should be noted that symbols have been introduced in this guide to indicate the dominant subject matter in otherwise general folders However, these symbols should be used with caution since they are not to be understood as being inclusive of all the correspondence that might exist in a particular folder. Also, the dating assigned to each folder is not necessarily inclusive but should serve as a suggestion to the general location of specific material
Following deposit in the Archives some general weeding was performed on the papers which was limited to a vast amount of routine matters Occasional samplings of this routine correspondence and memoranda were saved and are so marked in the guide below.
The sketch of Mathews' career has been appended to assist users of this collection to gain a minimal understanding of the scope of his varied activities as a University administrator, scholar, and churchman. His autobiography, New Faith for Old (New York, Macmillan, 1936) should be also consulted.
Dr. Mathews' papers in the possession of the University Archives are to a large extent administrative records dealing with matters affecting both the Divinity School and the University as a whole. There is also considerable correspondence touching upon the practical matters of American church life, particularly the efforts of the strict fundamentalists to split the churches over the modernism issue; a large group of papers bears upon the development of the Chautaugua Institute, particularly its religious program; and the collection includes miscellaneous correspondence, lecture notes, and manuscripts of published and unpublished articles and books There are no examples of correspondence with leading political figures, but many, of course, of correspondence with educational and religious leaders
The chief emphases of Dr. Mathews papers will be found in three areas, 1) the history of the University of Chicago and of the Divinity School; 2) the history of the development of the religious and social ideas which came to be known as "Modernism" and of the struggles within Protestantism which resulted from them; and 3) the reconstruction of the general intellectual, social, and spiritual climate which characterized the great era of vast changes in American life from 1890-1930 In addition valuable material on the history of Chautaugua and of a number of other movements and groups is scattered through the whole. The attitude of religious leaders toward the first World War is another example of a secondary topic upon which Dr. Mathews' papers shed some interesting light.
The Sheet Music Collection consists of approximately 4,300 printed songs, folksongs, ballads, and piano music from the late 18th to mid 20th century. The materials are predominately English and American, but the collection includes songs of other countries, some of which are in different languages such as French or German.
The collection is divided into five series.
Series I: English Songs and Ballads consists of approximately 3,500 songs, which were published and performed in England. In most cases, English poets and composers wrote their lyrics and musical scores. The majority of these pieces were printed between 1830-1870, but the section spans 1785 to 1900. Their themes range from political satire to romantic love and are often directly informed by current events. Comic songs are generally associated with public performance in a popular music hall, and with a particular singer. This section also includes piano music without lyrics, the majority of which are dances (polkas and waltzes). Series I is divided into three subseries
Subseries 1, Lyricists, is organized alphabetically according to the name of the lyricist. Lyricists with at least four works in the collection are given a separate folder, located at the end of the corresponding alphabetical group. Many songs represent famous poems set to music, for example the verse of Byron, Keats, and Shakespeare.
Subseries 2, Composers, is organized alphabetically according to the name of the composer. Composers with at least four works in the collection are given a separate folder, located at the end of the corresponding alphabetical group. Some songs represent popularizations of operas by Donizetti, Rossini, or Verdi, for example; conversely, some are song arrangements based upon musical compositions by Mozart, Schubert, or Beethoven.
In some cases, the composer and lyricist are the same individual, (for example, "Claribel.") Occasionally, a recognized lyricist composed the music but not the lyrics, and vice versa. In such crossover cases, Parts I and II should both be checked. The same is true when there is frequent collaboration between a prominent lyricist and equally prominent composer: for example, Eliza Cook (lyrics) and Henry Russell (music) are extensively represented in their respective categories, both of which contain examples of their joint efforts.
Piano music (without lyrics) is also included in this group. The majority of these pieces are dances, especially waltzes and polkas, and the majority is identified by composer (Strauss, etc).
Subseries 3, Folk, National, and Anonymous Songs, consists of ballads, folk music, and national songs, most of which are anonymous. They are primarily from England, Scotland, and Ireland, but include France, Germany, Sweden, and the United States. Sacred songs and hymns are also included in this group.
In 1974, a detailed inventory was initiated, but not completed. As a result, however, several hundred items (primarily those whose lyricists' last name begins with "B") have been surveyed according to caption title, first line, first chorus line, music medium, pages of music, composer, lyricist, arranger, performer, illustrator, publisher, plate number, and cover description. These sheets are currently located in the Sheet Music Collection file, and may be consulted upon request.
Series II: Early 19th Century American Sheet Music includes 39 songs published in the United States in the first half of the 19th century. These materials are divided into two subseries. Subseries 1, Song Sheets consists of songs published in Boston, New York, and Philadelphia. Subseries 2, Piano and Harp Music contains piano and harp music (without lyrics) published in the United States. The majority of these items are dances.
Series III: The Lt. Joseph Starshack Collection of American Sheet Music contains 224 pieces of American popular music ranging from the late 19th century to the early 20th century, most from 1900 to 1910. The collection is organized alphabetically by song title. A complete item list is available in the Sheet Music Collection file and may be consulted upon request.
Series IV: Early 20th Century American Sheet Music contains approximately 500 pieces of American popular music from the early 20th century, published primarily between 1910 and 1940. This collection includes songs of a regional character, addressed to the Southern and Western United States (Alabama, Georgia, California), as well as a number of Irish ballads printed in the United States. Some songs address patriotic themes, particularly in relationship to World War I. Movie theme songs (for example, "The Tender Trap") and songs from musicals such as "Guys and Dolls" also appear in this collection. Popular entertainers and recording stars associated with these songs include Perry Como, Guy Lombardo, Patti Page, Frank Sinatra, and Rudy Vallee.
This collection is organized alphabetically by song title. The majority of these items are in poor condition.
Series V: The Midway Minstrel represents the repertoire of a male singing group named after the Midway in Hyde Park, Chicago. 314 popular songs appear in this collection, including a number of drinking songs (such as "Beer, Please," or "Budweiser's a Friend of Mine.")
The David Lee Shillinglaw Papers are organized into six series: Series I: Personal; Series II: Correspondence; Series III: Writings; Series IV: Professional; Series V: Audio-Visual; and Series VI: Oversize. The collection contains correspondence; diaries; appointment books; notes, manuscripts, and typescripts for speeches, published articles, and a book; blueprints; reports; clippings; World War I ephemera, publications, and artifacts; photographs; audiotape reels; and scrapbooks. Materials date between 1892 and 1971, with the bulk of the material dating between 1917 and 1960. The papers primarily document Shillinglaw's service in the YMCA American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) and the army during WWI, his public speaking engagements, his career in the American Legion, and his personal involvement in numerous patriotic and political organizations.
Series I, Personal, contains ephemera such as invoices, receipts, and postcards; a family crest; material related to Shillinglaw's education; biographical information and clippings about Shillinglaw; diaries kept by Shillinglaw throughout WWI; appointment and address books; a notebook; and a copy of the New Testament carried by Shillinglaw during the war.
Series II, Correspondence, contains outgoing and incoming mail, arranged chronologically. Of particular note are letters written by Shillinglaw to family and friends from WWI-era France. Frequent correspondents include Shillinglaw's mother, Emma Todd Shillinglaw, Shillinglaw's fiancé, Lydia Eccher; and A.A. Zimmerman. This series contains both personal and professional correspondence.
Series III, Writings, consists of material related to the evolution of David Lee Shillinglaw's speeches, published articles, and book about his experience in WWI –An American in the Army and YMCA, 1917-1920 (The University of Chicago, 1971). The series is divided into three subseries: Research Files, Speeches and Articles, and Book. Subseries 1 contains clippings, pamphlets, government publications, serials, and article reprints gathered by Shillinglaw in the course of his writing. The bulk of the material is related to the McCarthy era and civil liberties. Subseries 2 contains a bibliography, notes, manuscript fragments, typescripts, and publicity for Shillinglaw's speeches and articles. Subseries 3 contains typescripts and photocopied typescripts of Shillinglaw's book. This subseries also contains transcriptions of Shillinglaw's diaries and correspondence used in the book.
Series IV, Professional, contains material documenting Shillinglaw's employment, service during WWI, membership in various organizations and boards, and political activities. The series is divided into two subseries:
Subseries 1, Employment, contains a small amount of material documenting Shillinglaw's various businesses in Waterloo, Iowa and Chicago, Illinois from 1911 to 1922. The bulk of the material in this subseries pertains to Shillinglaw's service in the YMCA AEF and the army in France from 1917 to 1919. This material includes a passenger list for the ship on which Shillinglaw sailed to France, official army permits, reports, blueprints and specifications for YMCA hut construction, and wartime publications. It also includes ephemera relevant to Shillinglaw's personal experience in wartime France, including postcards, ticket stubs, menus, programs, invitations, newspapers and magazines, a piece of glass from St-Gervais-et-St-Protais church (presumably following the tragic roof collapse during the German bombardment of Paris in 1918), and a piece of an airplane which fell on the Place de la Concorde on January 31, 1918. Finally, this subseries contains material documenting Shillinglaw's career in the American Legion following the war. This material includes pamphlets, newsletters, reports, and clippings. See Series V and VI for additional WWI and American Legion material.
Subseries 2, Organizations and Boards, contains material pertaining to Shillinglaw's membership activities in various service and political organizations, particularly his service as a board member of the American Institute of Pacific Relations and his service in the Illinois Republican Party. This subseries also includes clippings documenting Shillinglaw's failed candidature for the United Nations Economic and Social Council during the McCarthy era.
Series V, Audio-Visual, contains photographs of Shillinglaw, including studio portraits and candid photographs from childhood through adulthood. This series also contains photographs taken throughout Shillinglaw's service in Europe during WWI and in the American Legion. Also included are two 5-inch audiotape reels. One reel is labeled "Boyhood," suggesting that the tapes contain oral history interviews with Shillinglaw.
Series VI, Oversize, contains a variety of oversize items. Of particular note are two scrapbooks containing photographs and ephemera pertaining to Shillinglaw's WWI and American Legion experiences. This series also contains Shillinglaw's 1920 passport, article reprints and government documents related to his writings, reprints of Shillinglaw's speeches, posters, clippings, and other ephemera relevant to his service in WWI.
The Harrington Shortall Papers span the years 1907-1984, with the bulk of material dating from 1920-1960. The collection is organized into three series.
Series I: Nadia Boulanger, contains documents relating to the relationship between Harrington Shortall and his piano and composition teacher. Material in this series includes correspondence from Nadia Boulanger to Harrington Shortall and to his mother, Mary Shortall. It also includes published piano reductions of Lili Boulanger’s music, dedicated to Shortall by Nadia Boulanger; clippings of magazine and newspaper articles; and a bound copy of course notes taken by Sister Edward Blackwell while studying musical analysis with Boulanger. The material in this series ranges from 1913-1979.
Series II: Compositions, contains completed compositions, revisions, unfinished compositions, and related notes. Compositions in this series range from 1907-1981, with significant concentrations from the 1920s-1950s. This series is arranged chronologically.
Series III: Teaching and Lecture Materials, contains material relating to Shortall’s piano method book "Singing Fingers," copies of works by other composers, and course lecture notes. Material in this series spans the 1940s-1950s.
Series IV: Personal, contains Shortall's journals and other personal writings, as well as correspondence and newspaper reviews relating to Shortall’s career as a composer. Also found in this series is an obituary and a photograph of Shortall. This series contains material from 1937-1984.
This series contains documents relating to the relationship between Harrington Shortall and his piano and composition teacher Nadia Boulanger (1887-1979). Material in this series includes correspondence from Nadia Boulanger to Harrington Shortall and to his mother, Mary Shortall. It also includes published piano reductions of Lili Boulanger’s music, dedicated to Shortall by Nadia Boulanger; clippings of magazine and newspaper articles; and a bound copy of course notes taken by Sister Edward Blackwell while studying musical analysis with Boulanger. The material in this series ranges from 1913-1979, although the dedicated scores were likely not presented to Shortall until after 1934.
This series contains bound and completed compositions, revisions, unfinished compositions, and related notes. This series is organized chronologically; however, revised and alternate copies are grouped with the earliest version of the composition. Compositions in this series range from 1907-1981, with significant concentrations from the 1920s-1950s. There are multiple drafts, versions, and revisions of "Es Lachelt der See (Song in Search of English Words)," "Reed Song," "The Candidate’s Daughter or Love in Politics," "The West Wind," "Stabat Mater Speciosa," "Ad Romanos XIII 11, 12, 13, 14," "Music for the Order of the Burial of the Dead," "Round a 3," "Semi sentennial Hymn," and "Peaceful Cannon."
This series is organized into three subseries. Subseries 1: Piano Method, contains material relating to Shortall’s piano method book "Singing Fingers." Subseries 2: Copies of Works by Others, contains compositions in a variety of formats, many of which are organized into anthologies. These items are undated, although are likely from the 1940s-1950s when Shortall began having his work professionally bound. Subseries 3: Lecture Notes, contains drafts and notebooks pertaining to course lecture, as well as a copy of a lecture delivered by Reverend Bernard J. Sheil. Material in this series spans the 1940s and 1950s.
This series contains Shortall's personal writings, as well as correspondence and newspaper reviews relating to Shortall’s career as a composer. The correspondence folder also includes the collection’s only photograph of Shortall. The journals include Shortall’s copies of essays and articles on history, music, psychology, theater, and politics, as well as his reflections on these subjects. This series contains material from 1937-1984.
The James Silverberg Papers contain 14.5 linear feet of material and roughly cover 1941-1994, though the bulk of the materials were generated between the late 1940s and late 1970s. The collection consists largely of Silverberg's research materials, which include: field notebooks, quantitative data, surveys, maps, reports, interview transcriptions, etc. These materials relate exclusively to his work in India, though they do cover several different research trips. Much of the qualitative data should prove useful and interesting to researchers interested in 20th century India and, especially, the Indian caste system.
In addition, the Papers house a small collection of writings and correspondence. The former contains typescript and reprint copies of Silverberg's work, both published (articles) and unpublished (talks, conference papers), as well as related correspondence. The latter contains a mix of personal and professional correspondence. The James Silverberg Papers also include a series of general files in which materials unrelated to the established taxonomy of the collection can be found.
This series contains materials related to Silverberg's research in India. The bulk of these materials were generated as part of the India Field Research Project, headed by Gitel P. Steed. They have been separated according to geographic region and theme: Bakrana, Kasandra, caste system, and unknown or general India. The first two Subseries are named for villages located in the state of Gujarat. Subseries III deals specifically with the caste system, a major theme in Silverberg's research. Finally, the materials whose geographical provenance is unknown or which relate to India generally have been housed together in Subseries IV, though it is probable that they were generated in either Bakrana or Kasandra. Researchers are advised to examine the materials in Subseries IV should they be interested in Subseries I, II or III.
This series contains a miscellany of materials. The first subseries is devoted to writings written by authors other than Silverberg. Subseries II contains materials related to Gitel P. Steed. While materials pertaining to Steed can be found throughout the James Silverberg Papers, the bulk of these materials have been housed here. Subseries III includes materials that do not fit within the established taxonomy of the collection: miscellaneous photographs, unidentified writings and
notes, and press items. Of interest in this subseries are the diaries of Silverberg's wife, Donna. These diaries were written while Mrs. Silverberg was in India, accompanying her husband on the India Field Research Project. Lastly, Subseries IV contains several pottery items whose use and provenance are undetermined.
The Maud Slye papers contain extensive records from Slye's research on cancer in mice. Also included are several articles by Slye about her research findings and some professional correspondence.
Series I contains records organized by reference to the mice's cage numbers. Series II contains schematic outlines that track generations of mice by genetic strain. The records in Series III catalog types and locations of tumors in the mice as well as other list other ailments. Series IV contains autopsy and histology records. Series V contains notes, articles by Slye and others, and correspondence. Series VI contains an oversize schematic outline chart.
The collection consists of two book manuscripts, illustrations to be inserted in the published book, separate copies of certain sections from the manuscripts intended for corrections, a print copy of an article to which Spitzer contributed, and a correspondence between the later possessors of the manuscripts Schwarz, Langendorf, and Lev. They are organized according to an estimated chronological order. Folder 2 consists of the complete manuscript of Spitzer's book that presents his theory. He labeled this copy as "f-Original" and as publishable, and noted that a copy of this version (Kopie f) is in the USA but not corrected, thus not ready for publication. Folders 3-7 contain documents related to this book, such as a limited number of the illustrations to be inserted in the book, and separate sections to be used for corrections. Spitzer attached notes to each of these sections as to where they should be used. Folder 8 consists of the second book that was, as Spitzer noted, originally intended as the second part of the first book. Folder 9 contains a copy of the introduction to the second book, intended for "control" and not "publication." The Francis P. Squibb Papers are divided into four series: Series I, Personal; Series II, Catalogs, Discographies, and Publications; Series III, Printed and Handwritten Music; Series IV, Oversize. The Francis P. Squibb Papers contain advertisements, articles, correspondence, interviews, photographs, songbooks, fake books, method books, programs, publications, liner notes, record catalogs and discographies, essays, and manuscripts. There is handwritten, printed, and photocopied music as well as music transcriptions.
Series I, Personal, contains advertisements, correspondence, interviews, ephemera about musicians, photographs, programs, and drafts of manuscripts written by others. There are advertisements for the jazz club Red Arrow, “Louisiana” brand canned shrimp and okra, and LP record labels. The manuscript “Black Jazz on the Barbary Coast” also contains photographs of musicians. The manuscript, “Louisiana’s Singing Century” is divided into two copies: a complete photocopy in draft form and a complete photocopy with handwritten notes. There is correspondence to Squibb from Eugene Kramer and Mike Hazelnine. The correspondence not addressed to Squibb consists mostly of photocopied letters to and from musicians. The photocopied interviews are with Mrs. Francis Oliver, Ferdinand “Jelly Roll” Morton, Roy Carew, and William Russell. Also included is a music lesson journal.
Series II, Catalogs, Discographies, and Publications, contains record catalogs, discographies, and jazz publications. Publications include Down Beat, Jazz Journal, Jazz World, Record Research, Giants of Jazz, Index of Jazz, and Climax. See Series IV for additional publications.
Series III, Printed and Handwritten Music, contains printed, published, and handwritten music. As received from Squibb, folders are grouped by musician, composer, or style and are arranged alphabetically by subject and alphabetically by title within each subject. Songbooks are listed last. Sheet music is documented by title, lyricist, composer, publisher, and date. Method books and fake books are transcribed and edited mostly for piano. The handwritten music includes composers such as Eubie Blake, Buck Clayton and Don Ewell. Music transcriptions are of Don Ewell and Don Lambert and consist of piano arrangements. Photocopied music includes music by Ferdinand “Jelly Roll” Morton, Scott Joplin, James Scott, and Jess Stacy.
Series IV, Oversize, contains liner notes written by Squibb as well as articles features in Down Beat written by Sharon Pease. There are publications including Metronome and Esquire’s Jazz Book. Residential and business maps outlining areas of Chicago are included.
The collection consists of records of SSA's administrative role in the WIN Program from 1969-1973. These files were kept by William Reid, a former SSA faculty member. Much of the material relates to conferences and panel meetings held jointly with the University of Michigan's School of Social Work and Case Western University's School of Applied Social Science. Materials include correspondence, minutes, reports, clippings, and publications. Files are arranged alphabetically.
The Amos Alonzo Stagg Papers covers the period from 1866 until 1964 and consists of correspondence, scrapbooks, notebooks, photographs, ephemera, books and newspaper clippings that illustrate the life and career of the University of Chicago's first football coach and athletic director. The collection has been divided into nine series: I. Correspondence, II. University of Chicago Department of Physical Culture and Athletics, III. Football, IV. Athletics-General, V. Athletic Associations, VI. Post-Chicago Coaching Positions, VII. Biographical, VIII. Scrapbooks, Notebooks, and Photograph Albums, and IX. Books, Journals and Ephemera. The majority of the collection concentrates on Stagg's years at the University of Chicago (1892-1933) and his impact on intercollegiate athletics, amateur sports and education. Each series is then broken down into subseries, which provides a more comprehensive and narrow scope of information according to the nature of the materials in the collection. Series I, consists of Stagg's personal and career oriented correspondence. Series II through VII, are reports, correspondence and newspaper clippings that are organized into the following topics: University of Chicago's Department of Physical Culture, Football, Athletics, Athletic Associations, Post-Chicago Coaching Positions and Biographical. Series VIII includes detailed descriptions of athletic, personal and career scrapbooks, football and athletic notebooks and photo albums that span 1876 until 1956. Series IX also includes detailed inventory of Stagg's collection of books and journals. This series also includes various scrapbooks and loose ephemera that cover Stagg's education, career and personal life and date from 1866 until 1933.
This series of scrapbooks, notebooks and photo albums covers Amos Alonzo Stagg’s career as athletic director, football coach and prominent leader in the world of intercollegiate amateur athletics. Subseries 1, the University of Chicago Athletic Scrapbooks spans Stagg’s forty-year career as the first athletic director and football coach for the University. These books consist primarily of newspaper clippings, telegrams, athletic programs, World’s Fair and Olympics programs, letters, ticket stubs, and invitations and cover all University of Chicago sporting teams and clubs, including football, baseball, basketball, women’s athletics, track and field, swimming and tennis. It also includes articles on the growth of the University of Chicago, the effect of Presidents William Rainey Harper through Robert Maynard Hutchins on athletics, and establishment of athletic buildings at the University of Chicago until 1933. National intercollegiate athletics issues such as the debate over amateurism and professionalism, player recruitment, the impact of war on athletics, training, controversies, amateur athletics leaders, football reforms, the Big Ten, and coverage of the Olympics from 1900 to 1928 are topics also contained within the scrapbooks.
Subseries 2, the College of the Pacific football scrapbooks and Subseries 3, the Personal and Career books focus primarily on Stagg’s prominence as a football coach and leader in amateur athletics at American universities. The College of the Pacific series deals primarily with Stagg’s career the school’s football coach, and includes features on his family, notably his wife, Stella R. Stagg. These books also include the impact of war on football, the decline and abolishment of football at the University of Chicago and the prominence of West Coast football, and Stagg’s contributions to the game. The Personal and Career series spans Stagg’s profession, starting his collegiate life at Yale and ending with his coaching at Susquehanna University and Stockton Junior College. Both collections of scrapbooks include college memorabilia, awards, career highlights, famous coaches, letters, telegrams, and programs.
Subseries 4, the Pre-Chicago scrapbooks document Stagg’s athletic accomplishments as a star baseball pitcher and football player at Yale University and his work as football coach at the Young Men’s Christian Association Training School in Springfield Massachusetts. These volumes span Stagg’s student years up through his appointment to the newly founded University of Chicago and include several pieces of Yale ephemera such as magazines, remnants of baseball caps, and student examinations. The scrapbooks also provide information on Yale athletics, the development of the “star” athlete, and the function and importance of the YMCA on college campuses. This collection of newspaper articles and memorabilia provides insight into the various Christian leaders and conventions that took place at the turn-of-the-century and their impact on collegiate and amateur athletics.
Subseries 5, the Football Notebooks and subseries 6, the Duplicate Football Notebooks list the numerous plays, formations, diagrams and reports Stagg accumulated over the course of his career to build his football teams. Strategies, team rosters, notes, and letters from colleagues and his sons provide additional information for the generation Stagg’s systems of offense and defense.
Subseries 7, the Scouting Reports and University of Chicago Athletic Notebooks and subseries 8, the Miscellaneous Notebooks are separate volumes that document and record the activities of varsity teams. The scouting reports provide information on plays, formations and team strengths and weakness for opposing football teams for the University of Chicago and the College of the Pacific. The University of Chicago Athletic notebooks contains records, team rosters, meet or game results, schedules and notes on varsity and freshman baseball, wrestling, fencing, swimming, basketball, tennis, golf, track and gymnastics teams. Subseries 8, the Miscellaneous Notebooks is a collection that covers varsity letter winners and record holders and notes, letters and newspaper clippings on the career of H.B Conibear, the former University of Chicago athletic trainer and University of Washington Crew coach.
Subseries 9, the Photo Albums provide a pictorial history of Stagg’s scholastic, athletic and professional coaching career. The albums begin with 1876 Yale football team photos, and move on to pictures of Stagg at Philips-Exeter Academy, Yale and the YMCA Training School in Springfield, Massachusetts. Some albums highlight Stagg’s personal life such as the infancy of his son Amos Alonzo, Jr. and photos of friends and family. However, the majority of the collection is photos of the various athletic teams at the University of Chicago, specifically the teams Stagg coached: football, baseball and track. The last remaining albums show Stagg’s coaching career at the College of the Pacific and a luncheon given in his honor after his retirement.
This series consists of a collection of books and bound journals from the private collection of Amos Alonzo Stagg. They include textbooks from Stagg’s education at Exeter, Yale and the YMCA Training School, bound editions of the Yale News, histories, biographies, songbooks and copies of his autobiography Touchdown! Also included are pieces of ephemera found in scrapbooks and loose materials, including ticket stubs, telegrams, photographs, a 55-yard line gridiron press plate and other pieces of ephemera dating from 1866 to 1933. These items span Stagg’s high school, collegiate and professional career and provide a glimpse into Stagg’s early formative years as well as his friendships and associations during his tenure at the University of Chicago.
This collection describes the relationship between Stieglitz and Mathieu as well as their relationship to the copy of Camera Work now held by The University of Chicago Library. Included is Stieglitz-Mathieu correspondence from a four-month period in 1943 during which Mathieu solicited Stieglitz's contributions for Minicam, and stated his admiration for the great photographer.
The collection also includes a typescript with autograph corrections by Mathieu in which he describes his first meeting with Stieglitz. Miscellaneous items include a copy of a letter from Edward Steichen to Mathieu, an undated layout for Minicam, two black and white photographs (one by Stuyvesant Peabody), and three articles.
This collection is also identified as Ms 1531.
The Student and Alumni Papers and Ephemera Collection consists of correspondence, class notes, football ticket books, dance cards, freshman orientation programs, diplomas, convocations programs, invitations, brochures from various convocation activities, and other materials related to student life at the University of Chicago. The collection also includes alumni reminiscences and class reunion materials.
The Zena Sutherland Papers contain correspondence, manuscripts, teaching materials, research notes, clippings, photographs and audio and video recordings. The Papers are divided into eight series.
Series I: Biographical Materials primarily contains articles and interviews with Sutherland from the 1970s through the 1990s. The series also includes materials related to Celebrating Children's Books, a festschrift published in her honor in 1981, and a small amount of personal correspondence.
Series II: Graduate Library School, primarily contains lecture notes and other materials related to courses taught by Sutherland. A small amount of correspondence and other items related to the GLS are also included.
Series III: General Files, contains files related to organizations with which Sutherland worked and boards on which she served, including the American Library Association, the Children's Reading Round Table, the International Board on Books for Young People and the Scott O'Dell Award Committee. Also in Series III are files on the Zena Sutherland Lecture Series.
Series IV: Correspondence documents Sutherland's career as an educator, author, reviewer and associate of many in the fields of both librarianship and children's book publishing. Among her main correspondents were author Lloyd Alexander, educator Susan Cooper, and editor Ursula Nordstrom. A large number of notable children's book authors are among her correspondents.
Series V: Writings, Speeches and Publications, documents Sutherlands work as author, editor and reviewer. It includes correspondence, manuscripts, clippings, reprints and promotional material for books, articles and speeches. Sutherland's correspondence with publishers is generally included with the files for the publications discussed, but more generally exchanges are in Subseries 4 of Series V.
Series VI: contains clippings and photocopies of articles related to the subjects of Sutherland's teaching and research, organized by subject. Also included are several files of "author profiles," comprising mostly publishers' promotional material and articles about children's literature authors.
Series VII: includes a small number of photographs and recordings of radio or other public appearance by Sutherland.
Series VIII: contains student related material to which access is restricted.
The collection is divided into eight series: Personal, Correspondence, Professional Activities, Teaching, Writings, Writings by Others, Oversize, and Restricted. Noted philosophers represented in the Correspondence and Writings by Others series include Henry Allison, Michael Friedman, Paul Guyer, Christine Korsgaard, Richard McKeon, and Sally Sedgwick. There are also brief letters from J. L. Austin, Rudolf Carnap, W. V. O. Quine, and Bertrand Russell.
Series I, Personal, contains a few personal papers of Manley Thompson's and some correspondence belonging to his wife, Phyllis. There are also several folders of newspaper clippings and articles on religious subjects collected by Phyllis, mostly after her husband's death. Manley Thompson's papers are first, followed by Phyllis'; each set is arranged chronologically.
Series II, Correspondence, contains professional correspondence. Thompson corresponded extensively with colleagues and former students, and so some of the material here is of some philosophical substance. Correspondents often included drafts or offprints of their work for comment; in cases where a collection of letters from an individual includes enclosed articles, those articles are included here. As many of Thompson's colleagues and former students are themselves prominent scholars, the series is arranged alphabetically by correspondent, with general correspondence arranged chronologically at the end. Correspondence regarding and with students at the time of their study is in Series V: Teaching.
Series III, Professional Activities, contains records, correspondence, and papers relating to Thompson's non-instructional professional activities: his service on the Harvard visiting committee, referee reports for journals and academic presses (older than 25 years), grant materials, etc. It also includes material relating to the Kant Society, the Charles Pierce Society, and the American Philosophical Association. Material is arranged chronologically.
Series IV, Writings, contains notes, manuscripts, typescripts, and offprints of Thompsons's academic writing, including materials related to his book, The Pragmatic Philosophy of C. S. Peirce. Materials are arranged chronologically. Part of the mathematics manuscript was written on the back of papers that are currently restricted, so a partial photocopy is included in this series, with the corresponding part of the original in Series VIII.
Series V, Teaching, contains syllabi and course materials, student work (except where restricted), and administrative records. The series is divided into two subseries:
Subseries 1: General: This subseries contains correspondence with and regarding students, their dissertation bits and other student papers, course notes, rosters and syllabi, and administrative material, arranged chronologically.
 Subseries 2: Notebooks: This subseries contains bound notebooks with course notes from the 1940s-1980s.
Series VI, Writings by Others, contains drafts and offprints of articles and books by others, including some correspondence and scant handwritten comments by Thompson. Material in the series is alphabetized by author. In cases where the work was accompanied by a letter or two, that correspondence is included here.
Series VII, Oversize, contains complete newspapers and oversize clippings.
Series VIII, Restricted, contains material with various restrictions. Folders 1 to 15 of Box 25 are restricted for 25-30 years from the date of creation; Folders 16 to 22 of Box 25 and 1 to 8 of Box 26 are restricted for fifty years from the date of creation; Folders 9 to 18 of Box 26 and all of Box 27 are restricted for eighty years from the date of creation.
The George Townshend, Marquis Townshend, and Charlotte, Lady Townshend Collection contains correspondence sent by George and Charlotte between 1763 and 1810. The collection contains six handwritten, autographed letters. The items are arranged by author first, placing Charlotte’s single letter at the beginning followed by George’s five letters. The letter written by Charlotte relates to business matters involving the trustees to Lord Townshend's will and the "present" Lord Townshend. Within George’s collection, letters are arranged chronologically. Also included is a small fragment bearing George’s signature.
The collection was previously part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
The University of Chicago Board of Trustees collection is organized into 4 series:
Series I: Organization Series II: Trustees and Committees Series III: Events Series IV: Fundraising
This collection contains brochures and booklets, with contents that range from Board policies and statements to event and program brochures, correspondence, certificates, letterheads, meeting notes, memorandums, press releases, newspaper and journal articles and clippings, various reports, directories, invitations, and fundraising brochures and proposals. This series contains brochures listing statutes and by-laws, miscellaneous booklets, certificates for trustees, correspondence, mailing labels, letterheads and envelops, meeting notes, memorandums, press releases, articles, and reports. The materials date from 1896 to 1996 and are arranged by type and then chronologically.
This series contains directories of trustees and committee members, newspaper and journal clippings of trustees, and brochures listing members of the Board of Trustees. The materials date from 1929 to 1999 and are arranged by type and then chronologically.
This series contains campus maps, menus and program brochures for events, invitations, and table assignment brochures. The materials date from 1892 to 2000 and are arranged by type and then chronologically.
This series contains proposals, reports, brochures, fundraising literature, and miscellaneous fundraising campaign materials. The materials date from 1936 to 1956 and are arranged by type and then chronologically.
The Tufts Papers include professional correspondence (1909-1942); philosophy outlines, notes and lectures; drafts of Tufts' memoirs; papers concerning the City Club of Chicago Committee on Housing Conditions (1908-13); and documents related to the Illinois Committee on Social Legislation (1912-17).
Series I: General Correspondence, ranges from 1909-1917, with the exception of five business letters dating from 1937-1942. A considerable portion consists of recommendations and advice to students on various aspects of their academic or professional careers. Among the letters from students, those of Matilda Castro are especially interesting; their correspondence was richer, livelier, and more extensive than that between Tufts and any other student. Her letters of 1912-1914, while an instructor of Philosophy at Bryn Mawr College, characterize that institution during the administration of President Thomas. Cynthia Whitaker Tufts died in 1920. James Tufts and Matilda Castro were married in 1923.
Many letters recommending women students, or those requesting prominent applicants for positions, illustrate prevailing attitudes toward women in academia. The difficulties women faced in securing teaching positions are shown in Tufts' correspondence with Dagney Sunne (Box I, Folder 1-2).
There is virtually no correspondence with colleagues of a purely academic nature, and correspondence between Tufts and members of the University community is sparse. He wrote to Marion Talbot of his anger at the Trustees' denial in 1916 of an honorary degree to Jane Addams. Tufts had a long and close association with John Dewey and George Herbert Mead-both were with him in the Department of Philosophy at Ann Arbor, and both were recommended by him to Harper. There are four letters in the collection from John Dewey. Two of these concern rewriting Ethics, jointly authored with Tufts in 1908 (the letters, dated 1909 and 1916, are in Box I, Folders 1 and 8 respectively); another expresses Dewey's attitudes about teaching, and his wish to retire after twenty-five years of it. The fourth letter, dated December 8, 1909, is an invitation to Mrs. Tufts. The only letter from George Herbert Mead (November 28, 1911) deals at length with departmental news; Mead mentions in it a discussion with Josiah Royce of philosophical idealism.
Series II: Academic Papers contains outlines and lecture notes for his philosophy classes; drafts of sermons and public addresses; a bibliography of Tufts' works; and a bound volume of salutary letters presented to Tufts by the Philosophy Club at his retirement dinner in 1930. There is also correspondence with Dagobert Runes and Ralph Winn from 1941-42, regarding Tufts' minor collaboration in The Dictionary of Philosophy, a work never published. A paper-"Ethics develops Tufts' interest in social ethics; there are also drafts on the philosophy of law and unionization.
Series III: Personal Memoirs, contains texts written after Tufts' retirement in 1930. They were never completed. Beginning with a genealogy of the Tufts family, the memoirs describe Tufts' student years, his experiences at the University of Chicago, and involvements in social reform organizations. Two chapters were edited by Matilda Castro Tufts for inclusion in a commemorative volume published after Tufts' death.
The style of the memoirs is simple and engaging. He vividly recounts his experiences in Grand Forks County, North Dakota as a minister for the Baptist Home Missions Board. These autobiographical excepts provide a glimpse of the University's early years: Tufts describes Harper's plans for the University; contrasts Harper's presidency with that of his successor, Harry Pratt Judson; and offers biographical sketches of many contemporaries on the University Faculty. He outlines the concerns of the Board of Trustees under President Ernest Dewitt Burton. Tufts was disturbed by the lack of fraternity between students and professors that he found at the University of Chicago; early in his Chicago career, he became Dean of the Senior Colleges (1898-1904) because he felt that an administrative position might provide opportunity for interaction with students "along somewhat different lines from those in the classroom." He was a member of the faculty committee to elect a new president after Harry Pratt Judson's retirement in 1922, served as Vice-President and Dean of the Faculties of the University from 1924-26, and toured cities across the country with A. A. Stagg to stimulate alumni contributions during the University's development campaign of 1924-26.
Series IV documents Tufts social and political activities. He served the City Club of Chicago Committee on Housing Conditions as Chairman in 1910, and as keynote speaker ("Housing in Illinois Cities," Box IV, Folder 2) at the 14th annual meeting of the Illinois State Conference of Charities and Correction in 1909. Among his collaborators on a study of housing congestion in Chicago's suburbs were Sophonisba Breckenridge and Edith Abbott of the University of Chicago. The Committee's research culminated in an exhibit in 1913 detailing housing conditions in Chicago.
In 1915 Tufts was president of the Illinois State Committee on Social Legislation; composed of 28 independent agencies, this committee served primarily to lobby for the passage of social reform legislation and for the enforcement of laws and ordinances. Drafts of many of the laws which the Committee supported are contained in Box IV.
Tyler papers contain correspondence, minutes, sample dissertations, examinations, manuscripts of speeches and articles, published works, biographical material, and letters of recommendation. Papers document Tyler's involvement with the United States Department of Agriculture Extension Service workshops, Doane College, the American Council on Education, and the University of Chicago Department of Education and Division of Social Sciences, as well as other organizations.
The Ralph W. Tyler Papers have been arranged into eight series: I. University of Chicago, II. Biographical and Personal Papers, III. Correspondence, IV. Writings by Tyler, V. Writings by Others, VI. Audio-Visual, VII. Restricted, and VIII. Oversized.
SERIES I – UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO - DEAN, DEPARTMENT, AND DIVISION
Includes material from the period 1945-1949, reflecting some of Tyler's activities as Department Education Chair, as acting Dean of the Division of Social Sciences (1946-1948), and as Dean of the Division of Social Sciences (1948-1953). The majority of the papers in Series I concern Tyler’s administrative work, and therefore the bulk of the series is made up of correspondence and reports arranged in alphabetical order by topic/subject, or occasionally by author.
SERIES II – BIOGRAPHICAL AND PERSONAL PAPERS
Consists of standard biographical information and personal materials including awards, honorary degrees, resumes, as well as a number of dissertations written about Tyler.
SERIES III – CORRESPONDENCE
The correspondence in this series is of an academic and professional nature. It has been arranged into chronological subseries of 1942-1945, 1946-1982, and 1981-1988. Within each group the folders are alphabetized by subject matter or respondent. The majority of correspondence that Tyler engaged in during the 1981-1988 time period was via his involvement with the System Development Foundation. Within the last subseries of the correspondence, 1981-1988, there is a variety of exchanges between Tyler and Mortimer Adler that are arranged according to topic, including the Institute for Philosophical Research and the Paideia Proposal.
SERIES IV - WRITINGS BY TYLER
This series includes reprints, copies, original manuscripts and drafts by Tyler and has been organized into eleven subseries: (1) Bibliography; (2) Periodicals; (3) Books, Pamphlets, & Papers; (4) Theses; (5) Reprinted Materials; (6) Reprints and Drafts; (7) Speeches and Writings; (8) Center for Advanced Study of Behavior Sciences; (9) Publications; (10) Academic & Professional Material; and (11) Speeches 1982-1983.
SERIES V - WRITINGS BY OTHERS
This series includes writings pertaining to Tyler, however many are articles he collected or were sent to him regarding education. It has been organized into three subseries: (1) Reports, (2) Articles and Manuscripts, and (3) Dissertations.
SERIES VI - AUDIO-VISUAL
This series includes audio tapes (reel-to-reel tapes and cassettes) and video tapes, most of which are of Tyler speaking. He is known to have produced several.
SERIES VII - RESTRICTED
The majority of the restricted material is employment recommendations or student grades or recommendations. This material is not open until 2068.
SERIES VIII -- OVERSIZED
This series contains oversized material relating to Tyler's research and writing.
The materials in this collection date from 1977 to 2009 with the majority dating between 1981 and 1985. The bulk of the collection relates to the construction of the library building at the University of Chicago campus. This includes copies of construction contracts, floorplans and construction drawings, technical information relating to the construction materials and products, data from site surveys and reports, and Schedule B's from the construction process. There is also a small amount of meeting minutes and memoranda relating to the planning and execution of the collection merger. Additionally, the collection contains trace sheets and dealer information from 1982 to 1983 for missing Crerar material. The collection is divided into five series.
Series I, John Crerar Library Construction, contains materials relating to the planning and construction of the John Crerar Library building on the University of Chicago campus. Materials date from 1977 to 1985 and are arranged topically. Planning documents are first, followed by construction records arranged alphabetically within the groupings of subcontractor, materials and products, reports, meetings, and scheduling. Researchers should refer to Series IV for oversized blueprints and engineering drawings relating to construction.
The majority of files in Series I represent the work product of the primary contractor, Schal Associates, and their exchanges with their various subcontractors.
Series II, Missing Books Information, contains processing paperwork from the John Crerar Library missing book file. The majority of the materials are related to the 1980-1982 collection inventory carried out in connection with the prosecution of Joseph Putnam. Putnam was arrested in January 1983 and sentenced to two years in federal prison for the systematic theft and resale of rare books from the John Crerar Library. The books, sold through John Howell Books to various academic institutions and private collectors, were worth an estimated $330,000. The processing paperwork provides metadata for materials published within the 1828-1984 data range. Series II also contains copies of index cards for missing books and a book plate. Materials are arranged alphabetically by author name.
Series III, Audio-Visual, contains 2 compact discs from the Kathleen A Zar Symposium at the University of Chicago in 2009.
Series IV, Oversized, contains oversized construction drawings, blueprints, and building plans from the planning and construction of the John Crerar Library building at the University of Chicago. Materials are arranged alphabetically within each box, under the categories of subcontractor, materials and products, reports, and plans. Researchers should refer to Series I for related non-oversized materials. This series also contains a plaque from the John Crerar Library Director’s Office and a large scrapbook of photographs of the library.
This is an artificial collection containing scrapbooks compiled and donated by University of Chicago--affiliated individuals and offices. The collection is divided into three series.
The scrapbooks in Series I, New Clippings, contain articles about the university, including its founding and initial funding. Later books contain articles about the death of President Harper, the building of Harper Memorial Library and Rockefeller Chapel, and about the University's early 20th-century scientific discoveries and achievements.
Series II, Campus Life, contains scrapbooks of event programs, tickets, official bulletins and announcements, and other ephemera.
Series III, Students, contains scrapbooks and scrapbook pages compiled by university students. Volume grouping indicates scrapbooks believed to be compiled by the same entity, relating to the same subject, and/or received by the library at the same time. Scrapbooks are arranged chronologically within each series, with the exception of Scrapbooks 41 and 42, late additions to the collection.
This series contains scrapbooks of news clippings documenting the University's founding, the hiring of the first faculty members, and the death of President Harper. There are a number of articles about John D. Rockefeller and the University's initial funding. Of particular interest is a book of political cartoons dealing with the relation between John D. Rockefeller and William Rainey Harper, and a large collection of articles about women voters in the 1924 election. The scrapbooks also cover important events in the life of the University, such as the building of Harper Memorial Library, Yerkes Observatory, and Rockefeller Chapel, and the scientific discoveries and scholarly findings of University faculty. There are three scrapbooks of clippings dealing with University athletics, including the end of the football program in 1938.
This series contains scrapbooks of materials relating to campus events and student life. There are invitations to and programs for campus events, university bulletins and reports, and internal memos. Among the other ephemera in the books are tickets, picture postcards, registration cards, and newspaper clippings. Books of clippings exclusively related to athletics or campus groups are included in this series, rather than Series I.
This series contains scrapbooks (and excerpts from scrapbooks) compiled by University of Chicago students. Two contain event programs, photographs, clippings, and other ephemera. Scrapbook 39 documents the Student Lecture Service, with information about the speakers brought to campus and lecture-related ephemera.
This collection contains newspaper clippings, program flyers, religious service, prayer schedule, and religious program pamphlets, and informational booklets pertaining to religious organizations and activities at the University of Chicago. The religious organizations represented in this collection are the Board of Social Service and Religion, the Calvert Club, the Canterbury Club, the Christian Union, the Episcopal Church Council, the Hillel Foundation, the Interchurch Council, the Lutheran Council, the Pastors’ Institute, and the Porter Foundation. A more detailed series description can be found the series description section.
Series I: FIRST STUDENT-FACULTY COMMITTEE ON RANKING (DUNHAM COMMITTEE) 
The first Committee was composed of six faculty members and six students, and was chaired by Professor Allison Dunham of the Law School. The Committee's papers record the methods which they used to carry out their charge. Materials on the draft laws and the Selective Service System were acquired, as were statements on the policies of other schools. The Committee also used the results of a questionnaire survey made of undergraduate male opinion. Minutes of meetings and outlines and drafts show the rapid evolution of the Committee's report, which was submitted in time for the June 7 meeting of the University Senate. 
Series II: SECOND STUDENT-FACULTY COMMITTEE ON RANKING (FISKE COMMITTEE) 
A second Committee was soon appointed to update the Dunham report, as the work of the First Committee was called, and to consider the ranking question and its implications in greater depth than was possible for the Dunham Committee. The Second Committee included five faculty members and five students, whose chairman was psychology Professor Donald W. Fiske. The greater bulk of the Second Committee's papers reflects the greater thoroughness with which they were able to use the methods of their predecessors. Their report was submitted in January 1967.
The University of Chicago Settlement collection contains informational literature on the Settlement House and its history, annual and monthly reports, the Settlement League Yearbook, program schedules and brochures, press clippings, article drafts, correspondence, statements and miscellaneous literature.
These records unevenly document the Extension's history. Little is preserved here about some important units, such as the Lecture-Study Department, while shorter-lived programs, such as the Navy Correspondence Courses Research Project, are heavily documented. There are eight series in the collection:
Series I contains minutes of the Board of the University Extension from 1901 to 1911. Curricular, appointment, and financial matters are discussed. Also of interest are the Report of the Sub-Committee on the Present Status and Prospects of University Extension (1909) and the Report to the President and Trustees of the Committee on the Institute for Popular Adult Education (1910).
Series II: Home Study Department is divided into three subseries. The first focuses on the formative decades of the Home-Study Department. Box 1 holds Correspondence-Study Secretary H. F. Mallory's bound letter book for October 1897 to October 1898, which is the only correspondence preserved from the early years. Thirty volumes of examination results give complete documentation about grades from 1922 through 1961, and ten oversized volumes of Home-Study receipts for tuition, books, and miscellaneous charges provide equally continuous financial information from 1 October 1892 through 30 June 1945. A small amount of correspondence concerns cooperative ventures with particular groups in the 1950s, such as Encyclopedia Britannica and the U. S. Coast Guard. Scattered enrollment reports for the ten years after 1942 are found here as well.
Promotional and informational material, including syllabi, addresses, printed announcements and circulars, comprise the second subseries. As discussed in the final section below, however, more complete collections of syllabi and announcements are located elsewhere in the Archives.
The final subseries is devoted to the Navy Correspondence Courses Research Project. Set up in 1949, this project prepared several hundred general and technical courses for Naval personnel, enlisted men and officers, those on active duty and those in the reserves. There are two principal groups of material in this subseries: correspondence; and summaries, reports, and contracts.
Series III documents the Lecture-Study Department from 1892 to 1902. Virtually all of the material is printed matter, including circulars, syllabi, and lecture announcements.
In Series IV are located general records related to the University College/Downtown Center. The first subseries contains general information dating from roughly 1901 through 1959, including minutes, statistics, survey results, working statements, and annual, general, and quarterly reports. There are folders devoted to the ongoing problems of name and publicity, and several staff manuals dating from 1946 to 1958. Concluding the first subseries are historical overviews of the Extension, among them "The University Extension Services," published in 1932 as volume eight of the University of Chicago Survey series.
The second subseries contains course and conference materials. Highlights are "Automation for Senior Officers," presented in 1955 and 1956, and "Organizing and Managing Information," offered in 1957 and 1958. Of particular note is material from an especially popular offering, the World Politics program, 1958-1960.
Series V: Institutes and Programs is a chronological arrangement of special institutes and programs organized by the Extension from the 1920s through the 1960s. As in the case of the Institute of Meat Packing and Public Lectures, much that has been preserved here is statistical, including budget, attendance, and enrollment figures. An exception is the assorted material-newspaper clippings, correspondence, tickets, sales reports, announcements, and seating charts-saved from the 1939 public lectures given by Dr. Eduard Bene, former president of Czechoslovakia. There is also a great deal of descriptive material in the series, such as course announcements and promotional pieces documenting the Great Books Program and the wartime Engineering, Science and Management Defense Training Program. Little correspondence has survived except for the Institute of Statistics and the Institute of Public Service. Other programs are more scantily documented, among them: the Executive Program, 1945-1958; Art Institute courses, 1953-1956; the Basic Program of Liberal Education for Adults, 1949-1958; and the Economic Education Program at Republic Steel, ca. 1949-1950. More recently the Extension has turned its attention to urban problems, including the future of the Woodlawn community. These records are primarily committee proposals, reports, agenda, budgets, and papers on urban topics.
Series VI documents the Self-Study Project from the mid-1950s through the mid-1960s and underwritten by the Fund for Adult Education. (It should be noted that the 1933 material listed in the inventory is a mimeographed copy of a portion of "The University Extension Services" which was included with self-study files.) The project's goal was to examine, assess, and place within historical context every facet of University College operations: students, faculty, administrative staff, curriculum, and facilities. Series VI houses material about this project, including correspondence, reports, and evaluations. The bulk of the material, specifically the 39 projects undertaken, is filed by project number.
The Union Research and Education Projects/Union Leadership Program, the subject of Series VII, also began in the mid-1950s. Designed for both members and officers of trade unions, the Union Research and Education Projects offered consulting services, advanced education, and research on union problems. This series includes: conference and seminar materials (26:4; 27:6-7, 13-14, 16; 28:3), discussion guides (26:6-27:2), correspondence and other general files. There are also proposals, among them several for the Union Executive Program (28:6-8) and the American Institute for Free Labor Development (25:10-11). Reports constitute a major portion of this series. In addition to the 1960 and 1963 annual reports (28:1-2) and a 1949 progress report for the Carnegie Corporation (26:1), there are reports, correspondence, and memoranda issued by advisory groups, most notably the Faculty Advisory Board, 1957-1963 (27:3) and the Labor Advisory Committee, 1955-1963 (27:9-10). There are as well union membership attitude surveys dating primarily from the mid-1950s (28:9-14).
Series VIII: Promotional and Informational Material comprises 13 boxes of promotional and descriptive material, most of it originally preserved in scrapbooks, while flyers and newspaper clippings constitute the remainder. One of the most complete series of the collection, this material is arranged in rough chronological order.
Subscription lectures were offered under the auspices of the University Open Lectures, Lecture Association, and Public Lectures. Their work from 1899 through 1943 is very well represented in the form of tickets, announcements, programs, newspaper clippings, syllabi, reading lists, and mimeographed letters of solicitation and instruction. Enrollment and attendance figures for many courses are available elsewhere in the Archives.
University College materials from 1908 through 1944 have survived in similar abundance and include printed circulars and announcements, interdepartmental memoranda, promotional mailings, notices, syllabi, reading lists, examinations, and quarterly course schedules.
The University Orchestral Association was formed in 1909 to provide an annual series of orchestral concerts in Mandel Hall. The Chicago Symphony Orchestra was always the season's feature, but other musicians and performers appeared on campus as well. Though there were special rates for students and faculty, attendance fell so sharply in the mid-1930s that the organization folded. Among the materials preserved here are announcements, notices, seating charts, sales and attendance records, and program booklets from 1909 through 1936.
The short-lived Institute for Public Service offered courses designed for public officials and government employees. One folder of scrapbook items-including small posters, correspondence, course descriptions, and alumni lists-documents its work in 1941-1942.
The rest of this series consists of more general groups of newspaper clippings, 1949-1953, and flyers and promotional materials, 1930s-1950s.
Uncle Tom's Cabin: or, Life Among the Lowly was an anti-slavery novel that profoundly affected American attitudes towards African Americans and slavery in the United States. The best-selling novel of the 19th century, Uncle Tom's Cabin is credited both with galvanizing Northern support for the Civil War and with creating a number of durable stereotypes about blacks. Major themes of this sentimental novel are the fundamental incommensurability of slavery and Christianity, the abiding power of Christian love, and the moral power and sanctity of women.
Uncle Tom's Cabin generated great interest in England. Vendors sold 200,000 copies in 1852, its debut year. Critics generally agree that this fascination with the tale stemmed from British antipathy to America. Brits did not necessarily harbor their own national hatred of slavery, but felt vindicated by the play's criticism of Americans' self-professed freedoms.
The collection contains promptbooks, playbills, posters, programs and other pictorial or printed ephemera, most of which are of British origin and describe or announce theatrical presentations of the tale. The announcements of presentations typically contain specific information about actors, scenes, and the venue. Most of the other documents are critical reviews of performances of various adaptations of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Although the documents span the dates 1852 to 1956, most date from the mid to late 19th century.
The Thorstein Veblen Papers consist of primarily of personal correspondence. The collection also includes an off-print of the article, "Some Neglected Points in the Theory of Socialism," and notes titled "Spencer's Principles of Sociology (manuscript and typescript).
Verse is an independent journal of international poetry, essays, reviews, and interviews. Verse Records are divided into four series: Series I, Correspondence; Series II, Administrative and Events; Series III, Journal Issues; and Series IV, Restricted. The Verse Records contain submissions, correspondence, proofs, manuscripts, newspaper articles, journal issues, reviews, interviews, invoices, press releases, and promotional material. The records document the business and literary aspects of Verse.
Series I, Correspondence, is organized into two subseries. Subseries 1, Alphabetical, contains correspondence arranged alphabetically by last name and includes letters from poets and colleagues, manuscript submissions, and requests for journal copies.
Subseries 2, Editorial, contains correspondence between the various editors, David Kinloch, Robert Crawford, Henry Hart, Brian Henry, and Andrew Zawacki. It is arranged chronologically and includes administrative and personal correspondence. See Series III for additional manuscript submissions.
Series II, Administrative and Events, includes handbills, manuscripts, newspaper articles, author biographies, press releases, submissions, photographs, interviews, reviews, invoices, promotional material, compact discs, grant applications, memorandum agreements, submissions, permission to publish forms, and mailing lists. There are biographies, newspaper articles, and press releases about the editors and poets of Verse. Administrative documents include grant applications, invoices, permission to publish forms, memorandum agreements, and mailing lists. There are photographs, handbills, promotional material, and information on poetry readings and festivals. The compact discs are selections from Verse Press Books, including Letters To Wendy's by Joe Wenderoth and read by James Urbaniak, and F. Train to Coney Island by Joshua Beckman. The Harper magazine includes an article about Joe Wenderoth's Letters to Wendy's, published by Verse Press.
Submissions include works from authors such as Sherman Alexie, Jennifer Atkinson, Mary Jo Bang, Jeanne Marie Beaumont, Andrea Brady, Lee Ann Brown, Sir Thomas Browne, Tina Celona, Jeff Clark, Wyn Cooper, Olena Kalytiak Davis, Ray Di Palma, Timothy Donnelly, Katie Donovan, Thomas Sayers Ellis, Landis Everson, Michael Farrell, Elise Ficarra, Isabelle Garon, James Harms, Lucy Ives, Lisa Jarnot, Jesse Lichtenstein, Timothy Liu, Joanne Lowery, Lisa Lubasch, Gary Lutz, Jennifer MacKenzie, Kathleen McGookey, William Miller, Jonathan Monroe, Jennifer Moxley, Lorine Niedecker, Geoffry Nutter, Jessica Olin, Jena Osman, Ruth Padel, Ethan Paquin, Marjorie Perloff, Heather Ramsdell, Mathew Roth, Tomaz Salamun, Reginald Shepherd, Craig Sherborne, Diann Blakely Shoaf, Penelope Shuttle, Frederick Tibbetts, Chris Tonelli, Karen Volkman, Joshua Weiner, and Susan Wicks.
Series III, Journal Issues, contains correspondence, copyrights agreements, manuscripts, drafts, proofs, notes, interviews, and reviews published in Verse. There are hand-written notations and critiques of drafts and proofs. See Series I for manuscripts kept with correspondence.
Series IV, Restricted, contains a purchase agreement and is restricted until 2035.
This collection contains the papers of Vi Uretz and is divided into three series, each organized alphabetically.
Series I: Community Activities, contains materials related to Uretz's involvement with local organizations and events. Included here is information on the 57th Street Art Fair, highlighting the development of the 50th anniversary book, as well as materials from 57th Street Art Fair founder Mary Louise Womer. Boxes 1, 2, and 3 contain oversized materials relating to the Art Fair, including posters, photographs, and book layout pages. This series also contains information concerning University of Chicago events such as lectures, exhibits, and the threatened closure of the International House in 2000. Box 10 contains oversized materials relating to the University, including visual art information and a scrapbook.
Series II: Family, contains the late-nineteenth century correspondence of Agnes Seely, a relative of Uretz.
Series III: Artwork and Audio-Visual Materials, contains reproductions of Uretz's illustrations and a small number of originals, as well as photographs and slides of urban renewal in Hyde Park. This series also contains videocassette tapes of artwork and interviews for a documentary made for the 50th anniversary of the 57th Street Art Fair. Boxes 17 and 18 contain oversized materials, including slides and sketches relating to urban renewal.
Contains correspondence, lecture notices, notes on the history of the Foundation, biographical information on Charles Walgreen, and research reports by students who held Walgreen scholarships. Also contains typescripts and transcripts of lectures given under the auspices of the Foundation. Includes material that relates to the Walgreen Scholarship Fund, Walgreen Scholars, grants awarded to the Committee on Human Development, and suggested speakers and series. Correspondents include Dean Acheson, Vannevar Bush, Edward S. Corwin, Herbert Hoover, Walter Lippman, Leverett Saltonstall, Adlai Stevenson, Allen Tate, Henry A. Wallace, and others.
The documents in the collection have been arranged in five manuscript boxes. The first box contains general correspondence of the Foundation, as well as correspondence concerning the Foundation's grants to the Committee on Human Development, the Walgreen Scholarship Fund, and the Walgreen Scholars. In the second box is correspondence concerning the lecture series. The third box contains correspondence dealing with suggested speakers and series; letters from distinguished people who were unable to accept invitations extended by the Foundation; and several folders of miscellanea, including lecture notices, correspondence concerning the publication of lectures, notes on the history of the Foundation, biographical information about Charles Walgreen, and several research reports by students who held Walgreen scholarships. The fourth and fifth boxes contain typescripts and transcripts of twelve series of lectures given under the auspices of the Foundation.
The papers in this collection are from the files of the Foundation, and cover the period from 1938 to 1956. They were deposited in the University Archives by the Department of Political Science in September, 1962. It should be mentioned that the correspondence and records of the Foundation for the period prior to 1940 are not complete; some of the material was lost when the Foundation moved its files in 1945.
The Wartime Military Training Program Records contain correspondence, memoranda, reports, financial records, curricula, evaluations, and correspondence related to the wartime activities of the University of Chicago. Materials in this collection primarily document the Army Specialized Training Program (ASTP) and the Civil Aeronautics Administration's War Training Service Program (WTS). Other minor wartime programs contained within this collection include Army Sponsored Meteorological Training; Civil Affairs Training School; Institute for Military Studies; and Production Training for War Industries. Also contained with this collection are documents pertaining to the University's military programs during the interwar years and the University's activities during World War II.
The collection is organized into seven series: Series I Interwar; Series II World War II, General Files; Series III Army Specialized Training; Series IV Civilian Pilot Training/ Wartime Training Service; Series V Minor Wartime Military Training Programs; Series VI Postwar and Series VII Restricted.
Series I, Interwar, consists of pamphlets and magazines pertaining to the military training programs at the University during the interwar period.
Series II, World War II, General Files consists of files about the University's response to World War II that was not part of the various military training programs. It also includes a paper written by Adolph T. Scott Jr. entitled "The University and World War II" that discuses in depth the University's activities during World War II.
Series III, Army Specialized Training, consists of files pertaining to the Army Specialized Training Program.
Series IV, Civilian Pilot Training/ Wartime Training Service, consists of files pertaining to the Civilian Pilot Training Program and the CAA War Training Service. While the Civilian Pilot Training files predates World War II, it was during World War II that it expanded and in 1942 it became the CAA War Training Service.
Series V, Minor Wartime Military Training Programs, consists of files pertaining to: Army Sponsored Meteorological Training; Civil Affairs Training School; Curtiss-Wright Engineering Program; The Institute of Military Studies; Navy and Marine Education Program; Production Training For War Industries; and Radio, Electronics, and Microwaves.
Series VI, Postwar, consists of documents pertaining to the University's postwar activities relating to veterans. Specifically, it includes documents related to veterans' education and housing.
Series VII, Restricted, consists of graded student material and is restricted until 2024.
The Records are divided into five series. Series I contains general correspondence. Series II is a group of files compiled by Edwin M. Clough during his tenure as director. Series III contains the organization's financial records; Series IV is a selection of replies received to requests for literature for the Committee's surveys. Series V comprises file cards on various publications.
The Records of the World Citizens Association, Central Committee should be consulted in conjunction with this collection.
Series I: Film Distribution, contains records of Greene's film distribution companies, particularly those of the International Film Bureau and Trans World Films. Much of the material in this series consists of publicity material for films and film distributorships, including catalogs, press books, print advertisements, stills, lobby cards, inserts, clippings, posters and press releases. Also included is correspondence negotiating distribution rights; internal reviews of films; scripts and translations of dialogue; artwork and layouts for catalogs; and files on business and film equipment. This series includes material in German, Spanish, French and Italian.
Series II: Chicago Film Council, includes correspondence, minutes, membership records, programs and announcements, spanning the years 1946-1949. Also included is related material from other regional film councils and their sponsoring organization, the Film Council of America. Greene's work in organizing the 1947 Films of the World Festival is represented in this series.
Series III: University of Chicago, documents campus film series that Greene organized from 1932-1941. Included are programs and publications from series hosted by the University Film Society, International House and the Renaissance Society.
Series IV: Committee to Preserve the Ferguson Fund for Sculpture, includes the group's financial and administrative records, correspondence, publicity material, background research on the Art Institute and the Ferguson Fund, clippings, and records of legal proceedings.
Series V: Personal, includes correspondence, biographical material, yearbooks, maps and other travel material, political material, periodicals and clippings. Several unidentified files containing notes, correspondence, periodicals, clippings and publicity material are included at the end of the series.
Series VI: Restricted, contains financial records of International Film Bureau, as well as personal financial and medical records.
This series contains records of Greene's film distribution companies, particularly those of the International Film Bureau and Trans World Films. Much of the material in this series consists of publicity material for films and film distributorships, including catalogs, press books, print advertisements, stills, lobby cards, inserts, clippings, posters and press releases. German films of the 1930s are particularly well represented in this series, as are Mexican and other Spanish-language films of the 1930s-1950s. Also included is correspondence negotiating distribution rights; internal reviews of films; scripts and translations of dialogue; artwork and layouts for catalogs; and files on business and film equipment.
Dates given in the inventory are for the materials contained in the file, and do not document the release dates of films.
Subseries 1: Subject File, includes files organized alphabetically. Administrative records are usually filed by business name ("International Film Bureau" or "Trans-World Films"). Other typical subjects include the names of clients, vendors, products, films and film genres. Unidentified files are collected at the end of this subseries.
Subseries 2: Movie Posters and Oversize Publicity Material, contains print material such as large posters, press books, lobby cards, inserts and photographs. Also included is a set of English subtitle cards, circa 1950s-1960s, for the 1931 production of Brothers Karamazov. Material in this subseries is organized by size, then alphabetically by subject.
Restricted material from this series has been transferred to Series VI.
The William Rainey Harper papers is comprised primarily of correspondence, and papers not included in the Harper-Judson-Burton section of the Presidents Papers, and is of a somewhat more personal nature than the Presidents Papers. This collection has been arranged into six series: Correspondence, Speeches and Manuscripts, Personal, Writings, Books from the Library of William Rainey Harper and Notebooks and Scrapbooks.
The first series, Correspondence, has eight subseries. Divisions of material among these subseries is not strict. The first subseries, General, contains correspondence with a variety of correspondents including University of Chicago faculty such as Ernest DeWitt Burton and Albion Small and other university faculty and presidents. It also contains some correspondence with family members. This subseries is arranged chronologically and the names of the correspondents in each folder have been listed alphabetically. Most of the letters in subseries 1, General, have been individually described. These descriptions are located in the second volume (paper copy only) to the William Rainey Harper Papers. The second subseries is Distinguished Persons. It contains a certain quantity of correspondence that has been separated from the General correspondence and includes correspondence with F. T. Gates, Harry Pratt Judson and others. This subseries is arranged alphabetically by the name of the correspondent. The third subseries, Family, contains some of Harper's correspondence with his family and other personal correspondence. Subseries 5, Academic, contains correspondence with students including corrected lessons of Rev. Daniel Seymour. The sixth subseries, Founding of the University of Chicago, has correspondence about the founding of the university, correspondence concerning Harper's selection for the presidency and similar information. Related to this is subseries seven, Early appointments, that contains correspondence regarding early appointments to the faculty. This subseries is arranged alphabetically by subject. The last subseries, Harper-Shepardson Business, consists of two bound volumes of correspondence between Harper and his secretary, Shepardson.
Series II, Speeches and Manuscripts, includes Harper's first convocation address, his Quarterly Statement, Spring 1896 and lecture notes.
Series III, Personal, contains material related to Harper's illness and death. It includes correspondence with Harper's doctors and concerning his last operation. Also, Series III includes material about Harper's funeral and memorial services and letters of sympathy sent to Ella Harper, Samuel Harper and to University officials. These three correspondents determine the three groups that the letters are divided into and the three groups are arranged alphabetically by correspondent. Additionally there are tributes, memorials, clippings and correspondence and notes concerning Harper's desk.
The fourth series, Writings, contains a few reprints of articles by Harper and a bibliography of Harper's works, as well as a few reviews of his works. The articles are arranged chronologically.
Series V, Books from the Library of William Rainey Harper, includes three small volumes, one of which, Prophetae Posteriores, is heavily annotated.
Series VI, Notebooks and Scrapbooks, has three main divisions. The first group is the "Red Books," which are arranged chronologically. Second are the Miscellaneous Notebooks, also arranged chronologically, although three of these are undated. The last group, Harper's Secretary's notebooks, appear to be notebooks kept by his secretary. They are also arranged chronologically and include a volume entitled "General Reference Book."
This collection contains records of the Office of the Director of Yerkes Observatory, documenting the administrative history of the observatory and the Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics from 1891-1946; the collection also contains editorial and administrative records of Astrophysical Journal.
The bulk of the collection consists of correspondence of the director from 1891-1946, during which time the position was held by George E. Hale, Edwin B. Frost, and Otto Struve. Typical correspondents included faculty, staff and students at Yerkes Observatory; university administrators; and scientists and organizations outside the university.
Series I contains correspondence from 1891-1903. The correspondence is arranged chronologically in increments of several months, then alphabetically by correspondent or subject.
Series II contains records from 1903-1946. This series consists primarily of correspondence, but also includes material such as financial records, publications and reports. This series is arranged chronologically by year, then alphabetically by correspondent or subject. However, correspondence about routine administrative matters is often filed in subheadings under "University of Chicago" at the end of each year's records.
In Series I and Series II, inventories for the years 1891-1931 contain some lists of individuals or subjects found in each folder; these entries represent "notables," and not a complete list of the contents of each folder. The inventory of Series II includes enhanced descriptive detail for records from the years 1932-1946, when Otto Struve served as Director.
Series III, McDonald Observatory, contains Otto Struve’s correspondence dealing with the planning, construction, opening and early operation of McDonald Observatory in Texas. This collection is organized alphabetically by correspondent or subject, such as “Hale, George E.”, or “Contracts.” The majority of this collection consists of correspondence, but notes, blueprints, contracts, drafts, minutes and newspaper clippings can also be found here. Smaller files of material related to McDonald Observatory are found in Series II.
The Idea of the University of Chicago Records are photocopied writings and addresses of the first eight presidents of the University of Chicago. The materials in this collection was compiled by William Michael Murphy and D.J. R. Bruckner, during research for the book The Idea of the University of Chicago (1976).
Each item in the collection is identified by a reference number. Access to individual topics is provided by an Index in the first folder.
The International House Council Records consist of minutes of Council meetings (1970-1972), copies of the Chicago Compass, International House Board of Governors minutes (1959-1973), correspondence, memoranda, and other records of the Council.
The Innominates / X-Club Records consists of 2.75 linear feet of material and cover the period 1917-1982. The collection contains records for the Innominates and the X-Club. Both clubs were created by and for faculty in the physical, biological, and social sciences at the University of Chicago. Files include membership rosters, correspondence, speakers records, nominations, secretaries lists, ballots, announcements, and procedures.
The records have been divided into three series. Series I, Innominates, contains files for this science faculty club and covers the years 1917-1979. The files have been arranged chronologically. Series II, X-Club, contains files for this club which was made up primarily of junior faculty members in the physical and biological sciences. The second series covers the years 1941-1981 and has been arranged alphabetically. The files in Series III help documents the merger between the two faculty clubs in 1980. This series contains discussions and ballots regard the merger, rosters, questionnaires, and combined membership lists. These files have been arranged chronologically.
The Institute for Nuclear Studies Cyclotron Records contains correspondence with the Navy and sub-contractors about the building of the cyclotron, the construction of the Accelerator Building, designs for large electro-nuclear machines, and equipment needed to service the cyclotron. The collection also includes budgets and related materials.
This collection contains the announcement of the Seminar, the Inaugural Speech, and copies of the papers delivered at the Seminar.
The Jazz Textile Collection contains t-shirts promoting jazz-related events and organizations. Included are t-shirts from the Jazz Institute of Chicago, Chicago Jazz Festival, and the International Association for Jazz Educators. Also included is a t-shirt documenting the 75th birthday celebration of Joe Segel, owner of Chicago-based club Jazz Showcase. There is also a t-shirt for the band Jesse Scinto and the Dignitaries. The t-shirts date from around the mid-1990s through 2001.
When the papers were deposited, they included all of the material used by Gunther in preparing his manuscripts. Much of this material was discarded. This included numerous clippings, generally from well-known publications, newspapers such as The New York Times, the New York Herald-Tribune, the Chicago Daily News, The Times (London), the Manchester Guardian, magazines such as the New Statesman, The Nation, Time, Life, Foreign Affairs, The New Republic, Colliers, and Foreign Policy Reports. Also included were government documents and press releases, United Nations documents, pamphlets, both tourist-type and informational issued by official agencies and private organizations, and reprints of articles. The collection also contained numerous bibliographical notes which referred to page or volume in some published work. There were also cryptic notes, apparently reminders to the author to relate some anecdote or to include some point of fact. Also discarded were unmarked copies of manuscripts and unmarked galley proofs. The materials retained in the collection were those manuscripts and notes which showed most clearly Gunther's methods and sources of information. Gunther has described his work methods in two articles published in Harper's Magazine, March and April, 1961, entitled "The Fun of Writing the Inside Books," and in a longer book version of these articles published in 1962 entitled A Fragment of Autobiography.
The collection includes notes, manuscripts and proofs in various stages and correspondence dealing with Gunther's works. The material in the collection can be subdivided under several headings: manuscripts, correspondence, notes, and miscellaneous materials.
The manuscripts include the original manuscripts for all of Gunther's works. These are generally rough typewritten drafts, done by Gunther himself. They are heavily corrected with both major stylistic and substantive changes. Most of these revisions are in longhand, but Gunther also used the "cut and paste" method to rearrange paragraphs and phrases. Once this first attempt was in reasonably acceptable order, the first formal typing was done by a typist. Gunther then heavily revised this typewritten draft in the same manner described above. This is the First Revision or Second Draft of the manuscript. Occasionally there are three drafts of some chapters. Again the complete manuscript with these new revisions was typed and this clean copy revised. This Third or last Draft, called "the Printer's Copy," was not so heavily revised, but even so, there are usually a dozen cuts and changes, mostly to change "verbal felicities," (Gunther's phrase) on every page. The book was set in type from this copy. (If there had been no time to completely retype the First Revision, only those pages or fragments of pages which were heavily revised were retyped and inserted to make up the Printer's Copy.) Also included are the original manuscripts of Gunther's articles for magazines or newspapers, portions of which were sometimes included in the published books in revised form, and news dispatches which Gunther often wrote while on his various trips.
For several of Gunther's works, carbon copies of the original manuscript were sent to readers for correction or checking. Those sections which were annotated by Gunther's "experts" or specialists also make up part of the collection and are clearly indicated.
Galley proofs could be called the Fourth Draft, since Gunther revised them completely, mostly for stylistic reasons, but also to bring the book up to date by adding new material about persons or events.
The correspondence concerning the "inside" books, which is not an extensive part of the papers thus far deposited, has been divided into two sections. Informational and Post-publication. The "Informational" correspondence concerns questions of fact, answers to Gunther's inquiries, comments on manuscripts sent to "experts," material bringing Gunther up to date, suggestions from friends and acquaintances of people to see, etc. The "Post-publication" correspondence is from readers who commented on Gunther's works. Post-publication letters from well-known persons and from people who had corresponded with Gunther before publication are generally included in the Informational file. The correspondence is filed with the manuscripts and notes for the book with which it is concerned. However, there are two additional boxes of correspondence which include material concerning Gunther's publishers, Harper and Bros, and Hamish Hamilton, and some folders of miscellaneous correspondence which do not deal with specific books.
The notes constitute the major portion of the collection to date. Gunther wrote his notes longhand on small scratch pads. The great majority of these notes are interview notes, some from well-known persons in government, business or the arts, others with the average citizen, such as taxi cab drivers or the like. Others are notes taken at lunches, dinners, or parties. Generally, these notes are identified by the last name of the person interviewed, but sometimes they are simply marked "embassy," or "lunch," indicating that the notes were taken at an embassy meeting or affair, or at a luncheon party, or they are marked with the first name, the initials, or perhaps the nickname of the person interviewed. Gunther clipped all of his interview notes apart into thousand of little "sniblets" which were carefully subdivided into topics. He was generally very careful when cutting the notes apart to indicate the interviewee. In arranging these notes, however, they have been drawn together by the name of the person interviewed. Where possible, from internal evidence, from the published works, from Gunther's agendas of persons to see, they have been identified. Many, however, are not, and are simply listed under the last name on the guide or by Gunther's own designation.
The miscellaneous notes include a wide variety of material. Many are unmarked notes, which are generally Gunther's impressions of someone, someplace or some event. These have been filed by topic. Other notes are sentences, phrases, or paragraphs, which Gunther jotted down and which were subsequently used in the manuscript in some form or another. Also included are outlines for his chapters, names of persons to see or interview, itineraries, schedules, and agendas, as well as check sheets, proof sheets, libel sheets, and watch sheets. These latter were made by Gunther to determine the accuracy of his manuscript after rereading.
The miscellaneous materials section is made up of articles, memoranda, news dispatches and notes by other persons. In some countries, Gunther would commission someone on the local scene to prepare information papers. News dispatches, articles, and other memoranda, both published and unpublished, sent to Gunther by his colleagues and some of his contacts are included in this designation.
The collection is in 122 boxes. A guide to the material follows. The manuscripts are arranged by book publication date, beginning with INSIDE EUROPE. Preceding the guide to each book, there is a more detailed description of the material in each section. The juvenile books, correspondence, and materials from CHICAGO REVISTED are located at the end of the guide.
INSIDE EUROPE, published in 1936, is the first of the "inside books." The papers are contained in seven boxes. With the exception of the chapters on Germany, there is only one complete revision of this material. The chapters on Germany, however, have two or three drafts. These additional drafts have been included with the original manuscript and have been so marked. The manuscripts, therefore, are as follows-
1. Original manuscript, including the additional drafts on Germany;
2. First Revision (Second Draft) which is a typed copy of the original manuscript, and is substantially the same as the published version; and
3. Galley proofs, with the author's corrections and additions.
The Printer's Copy was not included in the original deposit.
There were five editions of INSIDE EUROPE. The second edition (October, 1936) did not necessitate the setting up of new type, but merely required insertions. The manuscript inserts must be used with the pagination of the first edition. New chapters were also added. These manuscripts are found with the "Revised Edition." However, the last two editions, the New 1938 Edition and the 1940 War Edition, were complete reworkings of the book, including new typesetting. The pages of one of the published editions were pasted onto large sheets of paper and Gunther made his corrections on the pages themselves and in the margins. The original manuscripts of inserts and the new chapters are clearly indicated. In October 1938, there was another edition, entitled the Peace Edition, which included mainly a new introduction and one new chapter, entitled "The Fascist Offensive," which was inserted in the book as Chapter 7a. Galley proofs of the revisions are not included in the collection.
Manuscripts of twenty-one articles written by Gunther are also part of the papers. Most appeared in such magazines as Harpers, The Nation, and Foreign Affairs. They deal with a wide variety of subjects and have been listed alphabetically. Most are simply carbon copies of the manuscript. Several of the articles, or portions of them, were used in the published book, but only after being heavily revised. There are also press dispatches from the Balkans written by Gunther, and miscellaneous typewritten notes, mostly on Austria, where Gunther had been stationed for many years.
The correspondence concerning this book is not extensive. One folder contains several letters from U.S. Embassy officials in Rome, London, Prague, and Berlin which answer questions of fact posed by Gunther. There are also several letters from reporters answering certain of Gunther's questions. The post-publication letters came mostly from English readers generally pointing out minor errors of fact.
The research notes for INSIDE EUROPE are not as voluminous as those for some of Gunther's other books. He was, of course, much more intimately informed on European affairs, since he had spent eleven years in Europe as a foreign correspondent. There are some interview notes, particularly those on a talk with Thomas Masaryk, founder and first president of Czechoslovakia, several English politicians, and H. R. Knickerbocker, the well-informed American journalist. Most of the notes, arranged alphabetically by country and topic, are factual notes.
Among miscellaneous materials are articles, memoranda, and copies of dispatches by several of Gunther's colleagues.
INSIDE ASIA, published in 1939, is the second of the "inside books." The materials for this work are contained in four boxes. The manuscripts are as follows:
1. Original manuscript, typed and corrected by Gunther
2. Printer's Copy, which is a typed carbon copy of the original manuscript (no. 1, above) with additional corrections, making the manuscript, therefore, the First Revision or the Second Draft.
The galley and page proofs were not included in the original deposit.
The original manuscript of the Second Edition, published in 1942, is a paste-up of the pages of the first edition with marginal corrections, numerous inserts, and a completely new chapter on Pearl Harbor.
The correspondence numbers about eighty letters, with Gunther's brief answers attached. It comes from all over the world, mostly pointing out errors in fact, or the misspelling of foreign words or names. Several letters, especially those from Sir Sekunder Hyat Khan, prime minister of Punjab in India, and Hendrik Van Loon, are particularly interesting. One letter, from Prince Chula of Siam, discusses political affairs in that country at great length, obviously from personal knowledge.
The research notes for INSIDE ASIA were not among the original deposit. Certain notes which deal with the 1942 Revision, as well as notes for an article in Fortune on the Middle East, are included in the collection.
Among miscellaneous materials are several long research papers on Palestine, Japan and China, apparently done for Gunther by observers on the spot.
The papers for INSIDE LATIN AMERICA, published in 1941, are contained in seven boxes. As with Gunther's first two "inside" books, there is only one complete revision of the manuscript. The manuscript material is as follows:
1. Original manuscript, typed and corrected by Gunther
2. Printer's Copy, which is a typed copy of the original manuscript (no. 1, above) with corrections-thus, the First Revision or Second Draft; and
3. Galley proofs, corrected, but incomplete.
During Gunther's fact-finding trip, he wrote several articles for the North American Newspaper Alliance, and made several radio broadcasts. The manuscripts of this material, some of it used, but only after complete revision, is included among the papers.
The correspondence concerning this book is not extensive. The Informational correspondence is, however, of some interest. Gunther corresponded with U. S. State Department officials and embassy officials in the various countries he visited. There are confidential letters about the internal political scene from, among others, Claude Bowers, Ambassador to Chile; Spruille Braden, Ambassador to Colombia; Vernon Fluharty, an embassy official; Laurence Duggan of the State Department; and Overton Ellis, a legation official in El Salvador. There is also correspondence with several American journalists stationed in Latin America. The material is arranged alphabetically by correspondent. The Post-publication correspondence, for the most part, deals with minor corrections of the text.
As in most of Gunther's other books, his major sources of information were his interview notes. Because Gunther did not list in his book, nor completely in his notes, the names of most of the persons whom he interviewed, it has been impossible to identify many of them. However, where possible, the interviewees have been at least tentatively identified. Gunther interviewed most of the Latin American presidents, numerous cabinet officials, politicians, journalists, American officials, and others. Among those interviewed were Getulio Vargas, president of Brazil; Pedro Aguirre Cerda, president of Chile; Eduardo Santos, president of Colombia; Fulgencio Batista, president of Cuba; Lazero Cárdenas, former president of Mexico; Victor Haya de la Torre, APRA leader in Peru; and Luis Munoz Karín, governor of Puerto Rico.
Among miscellaneous materials are memoranda on individual politicians and political events prepared by newspaper correspondents for Gunther's information. These notes have been included with the material on each country and, where possible, the author has been identified.
D-DAY, published in 1944, concerns the Allied invasion of Italy and the Mediterranean war in general. The material is contained in two boxes. The two manuscripts deposited are as follows:
1. Original manuscript, typed and corrected by Gunther; and
2. Printer's copy which is a carbon copy of the original manuscript (no. 1, above) with additional corrections.
Among other manuscripts are carbon copies of Gunther's dispatches, broadcasts, and articles written during his trip. During the D-Day trip he carried three credentials, and was working for three different organizations-the North American Newspaper Alliance, The Blue Network, and Readers' Digest.
The correspondence is not extensive, and is mostly made up of telegrams. One letter, however, from the American legation in Cairo, Egypt, concerns answers to certain questions that Gunther had submitted to the prime minister of Egypt.
The research notes also are not extensive. It would appear that most of the book was written from notes which Gunther kept in a diary during his six months in the Mediterranean area. However, the diary was not included in the original deposit. The majority of the notes concern the Balkan countries and the Middle East. Among the interview notes are those with Laurence Steinhardt, U. S. Ambassador to Turkey, and Sukru Saracoglu, Turkish prime minister. There are also miscellaneous notes on Field Marshal Alexander, Field Marshal Montgomery, and General Eisenhower, among others.
INSIDE U.S.A., the fourth of the "inside" books, was published in 1947. The materials concerning it are contained in twenty-three boxes. The manuscripts for this work are as follows:
1. Original manuscript, typed and corrected by Gunther;
2. Specialist Review Copy, which refers to a typed carbon copy of the original manuscripts with Gunther's corrections which was sent to various "experts" around the country for comment. A complete copy of this manuscript has been kept, though many of the pages and chapters were not annotated by the experts. However, included among the Informational Correspondence are letters of comment by these experts which refer to the pagination of this copy of the manuscript. Pages with comments by Gunther's publishers are also included.
3. First Revision or Second Draft, which is only fragmentary. Gunther employed his usual "cut and paste" method and large sections were revised in longhand. However, only those pages which were most heavily corrected were retyped. Some complete chapters were also retyped. These retyped pages and chapters were then further revised and added to the Printer's copy.
4. Printer's copy, which is, for the most part, a corrected copy of the Specialist Review Copy (no. 2, above) with the retyped pages of the First Revision (no. 3, above).
5. Galley proofs, with author's corrections and additions.
The original manuscript of the second edition, published in 1951, was a paste-up of the pages of the first edition with marginal corrections and numerous inserts. However, the paste-up pages were not included in the original deposit. The original manuscripts of the inserts, which were included, are numbered consecutively and must be collated with the pages of the first edition. Some of the manuscript inserts are only a few lines in length, others run to several pages. Galley proofs of the second edition, with the author's corrections, also make up part of this section.
The Informational Correspondence is extensive. This category includes a rough outline and tentative table of contents sent to various people for comment even before Gunther set out on his fact-finding trip. Among those who responded are journalists Louis Fischer of The Nation and Nicholas Roosevelt of The New York Times, Thomas Lamont of the J. P. Morgan Co., and author Mark Van Doren. Gunther corresponded with hundreds of people, including all forty-eight governors, senators, representatives, state office holders, mayors, and numerous other state and local officials, asking certain questions such as "who runs this state or city?" There is also extensive correspondence with newspaper publishers, editors, and reporters whom Gunther met on his trips and who were asked similar questions, or brought Gunther up to date on events since his visit. In addition, Gunther corresponded with many of the people whom he interviewed, asking for clarification of some points of fact or interpretation. The correspondence with Gunther's "experts," who read the various chapters for accuracy, is also included in this section. The informational category contains both pre- and post-publication material. It is arranged by state and alphabetically within each state.
The Post-Publication correspondence is primarily readers' response after publication. It includes one folder from prominent persons and personal friends of Gunther, probably segregated by Gunther or his secretary. Included among the correspondents are Stephen Duggan, Director of the Institute of International Education, radio commentator Quincy Howe, Alf Landon, author Amy Loveman, journalist Anne O'Hare McCormick, H. L. Mencken, historian Allan Nevins, educator Anson Phelps Stokes, commentator Raymond Swing, and State Department official Sumner Welles. Apparently some of these comments were used by Gunther's publishers in their advertisements for the book. Specific correspondence commenting upon or criticizing individual chapters or parts of chapters, suggesting revisions, pointing out errors in fact, spelling or grammar, is arranged alphabetically by state and then by author. General correspondence relating to the book as a whole or a substantial portion is arranged alphabetically by correspondent.
The research notes, which make up the majority of material in this section, are mainly interview notes. Gunther interviewed governors, senators, representatives, politicians on all levels, editors, publishers, reporters, businessmen, labor leaders, educators, clergymen, civic leader, farmers, authors and hundreds of others. Where possible, the interviewees have been identified. A representative sampling of those interviewed would include Jonathan Daniels, editor of the Raleigh, N. C., News & Observer, Senator William Fulbright of Arkansas, motion picture producer Walter Wanger, Robert Hutchins, then Chancellor of the University of Chicago, Mayor Wilson Wyatt of Louisville, Kentucky, labor leader Walter Reuther, Howard Johnson, Chief Justice of the Montana Supreme Court, Harry Truman, then Vice President, Robert Moses, New York state and city official, professor Carl Friedrich of Harvard University, E. H. Crump, political boss of Memphis, Tennessee, David Lilienthal, director of TVA, Speaker Sam Rayburn, President George Albert Smith of the Mormon Church, Richard Neuberger, then an Oregon state senator, and author Lilian Smith, among others.
DEATH BE NOT PROUD is a different type of work than any of Gunther's other books. It is a personal memoir and a memorial to Gunther's son, John, Jr., who died in 1947 of a brain tumor after a long and courageous struggle. The original manuscript of DEATH BE NOT PROUD is not a part of the papers deposited with the University of Chicago. Gunther donated the manuscript to the New York Public Library. However, a carbon copy of the original manuscript is included. The printer's copy and galley or page proofs were not a part of the original deposit.
The research notes for this work are, of course, very different from those in the rest of the collection. Included in this section are school and camp reports, medical reports, correspondence with doctors, and numerous longhand notes. These longhand notes, which had been cut into small pieces, record Gunther's own memories, the recollections of Frances Gunther, and of others, including Johnny himself, who kept a diary, of the events which transpired during the long illness. These notes have been arranged chronologically, as they were when deposited.
The correspondence is the most extensive part of the material on this work. There are two folders of personal correspondence, all post-publication, from friends of Gunther commenting on the book. There are also four boxes, containing approximately four thousand letters from the general public. The book obviously evoked strong feelings on the part of the readers. The letters are from people who had suffered similar tragedies, some whose relatives were then suffering from cancer, letters of general sympathy from children and adults from all over the world. The book had been condensed in The Ladies' Home Journal, in the Readers' Digest and its eleven international editions, and later in Coronet, thus having a very wide circulation. The correspondence has been arranged alphabetically within each alphabetical letter. One folder of letters has been segregated. They were used in the introduction to the second edition published in 1953. There is also one folder of letters to Lewis Gannett who wrote a review of the book for the New York Herald-Tribune, and one folder containing letters to Gunther on an article entitled "The Cancer in our Breasts," which was published in McCall's Magazine in 1950.
The material for the book is contained in five boxes.
The papers concerning BEHIND THE CURTAIN, published in 1949, are contained in five boxes. Like several other of Gunther's books, BEHIND THE CURTAIN was first conceived as a series of articles for Look magazine and the New York Herald-Tribune. In arranging the manuscripts, the Look and Herald-Tribune articles are included as the original manuscript. Gunther, in most cases, pasted the published versions onto pieces of paper and then heavily revised them. More than half the book, however, is new material. The manuscripts are as follows:
1. Original manuscript-Look magazine articles-however, only four of the manuscripts of the nine articles are included.
2. Original manuscript-New York Herald-Tribune articles, published under the general title "Inside Europe Today."
3. First Revision or Second Draft, which is the original manuscript for the book version, including revisions of above articles and additions.
4. Printer's copy, with author's corrections.
The correspondence concerning this book is not extensive, but among the more interesting letters are those from M. W. Fodor, a long-time European journalist connected with the American Military Government for Germany, and a letter from Dr. W. C. Weiskopf, Minister Plenipotentiary of Czechoslovakia to the United States.
The interview notes are of special interest. Gunther talked with most of the leaders of Europe during his preparation for the book. Among the many statesmen, journalists, businessmen, and others whom Gunther interviewed are Pope Pius XII, Prime Minister Alcide de Gasperi of Italy, Marshal Josip Tito of Yugoslavia, Matyas Rakosi, communist leader of Hungary, American Ambassador to Czechoslovakia Laurence Steinhardt, General Lucius Clay, American Military Governor of Germany, and Jacques Soustelle, Gaullist leader in France.
The material for ROOSEVELT IN RETROSPECT, published in 1950, is contained in six boxes. The manuscripts for this work are as follows:
1. Original manuscript, typed and corrected by Gunther, however it appears that chapters 5B, 5C and 17 were not written at the same time as the rest of the original manuscript. The First Revision of these three chapters is included in the Printer's copy.
2. First Revision or Second Draft, with author's additional revisions and corrections;
3. Printer's copy, with author's corrections;
4. Galley proofs, with author's corrections.
The original manuscripts of three magazine articles are also included.
The correspondence, of which there are only four folders, indicates that this book evoked strong sentiments either for or against FDR. Among the more interesting letters are those from several people who knew or had met FDR and wished to relate to Gunther their own reminiscences. There is also a long memorandum by Grace Tully, FDR's personal secretary, on the inaccuracies in the book.
The majority of the notes are interview notes. Gunther interviewed more than eighty persons, and where possible, the interviewees are identified on the guide. Gunther had extensive interviews with Bernard Baruch, Eleanor Roosevelt, Robert Sherwood, Laurence Steinhardt, Summer Welles, and many others. Also included among the notes are those of an interview with FDR in 1941.
The material for THE RIDDLE OF MACARTHUR, published in 1951, is contained in three boxes. The original manuscript and the First Revision were not included in the original deposit, nor were galley proofs, but page proofs, which were not heavily revised as was Gunther's method on galley proofs, are a part of the collection. The manuscripts, therefore, are as follows:
 1. Printer's copy. with author's corrections;
 2. Page proofs.
Also included among the manuscripts are carbon copies of news dispatches cabled by Gunther to Look magazine on the Korean War and the Far East.
The correspondence concerning THE RIDDLE OF MACARTHUR is not extensive. Among the letters of particular interest are those from Frank Rizzo, a high civilian official in the Occupation Government, and a letter from Samuel E. Morison on naval history. The Post-publication correspondence consists mostly of readers' comment, some quite irate over Gunther's interpretation of MacArthur.
The majority of the research notes are interview notes. Among those interviewed by Gunther were Emperor Hirohito, General MacArthur, Prime Minister Yoshida, various high American officers on MacArthur's staff, civilian employees of SCAP, Japanese politicians and businessmen.
EISENHOWER-THE MAN AND THE SYMBOL was published in 1952. The materials concerning this minor work of Gunther's are contained in two boxes. The book grew out of a series of articles published in Look magazine in December, 1951. Gunther wrote three long articles for Look on Eisenhower and SHAPE, of which two were published. The manuscripts, therefore, for this book are as follows:
1. Original manuscript-Look magazine articles, typed and corrected by Gunther
2. First Revision or Second Draft, which is Gunther's original manuscript for the much longer book version. Gunther used an uncorrected carbon copy of the Look manuscript and using the "cut and paste" method, made numerous emendations, inserts, and corrections.
3. Printer's copy, with author's corrections.
The correspondence is not extensive, filling only two folders. Among the Informational heading is a memorandum from a Look official on Eisenhower as president of Columbia University. The post-publication correspondence comes from readers who had minor corrections to suggest.
The majority of the notes are interview notes. Gunther interviewed military officials on Eisenhower's SHAPE staff, journalists, and several European statesmen. Among them are Eisenhower himself, General Alfred M. Grunther, Jean Monnet, and General Lauris Norstad.
INSIDE AFRICA. published in 1955, is one of Gunther's longest books, running to over 950 pages. The materials concerning this book are contained in twenty-two boxes. The manuscripts for this work are as follows:
1. Original manuscript, typed and corrected by Gunther
2. Specialist Review copy. However, only those pages with comments are included as well as memoranda prepared by Gunther's "experts";
3. First Revision or Second Draft, which is a heavily revised copy of a carbon copy of the corrected original manuscript;
4. Printer's copy, which is essentially the Third Draft because of the heavy revisions, more so than in any other of Gunther's works;
5. Galley proofs, with author's corrections.
While in Africa, Gunther prepared numerous articles for publication in popular magazines. He used portions of these articles, though in a revised form, in his published book. The twenty-one articles are included in the collection, some in original manuscript, some carbon copies, some clippings.
The informational correspondence is extensive and has been arranged by country or area and then alphabetically. Gunther corresponded with numerous American and British diplomatic officials, government officials, United Nations officials, businessmen and many others. Among the letters of interest are those of Edgar Sengier, the head of Union Miniere in the Congo; the U. S. Ambassador to Ethiopia, Joseph Simonson; a memorandum from the Governor of the gold Coast (Ghana), Sir Charles Arden Clarke who read Gunther's chapter on that country in advance of publication; C. L. Simpson, Liberian Ambassador to the United States; Hamilton Fish Armstrong, editor of Foreign Affairs, on Morocco and North Africa; David Stirling, president of the Capricorn Africa Society; South African attorney and novelist Harry Bloom; the Governor of Tanganyika, Sir Edward Twining; and H. V. L. Swanzy, a high official in the Gold Coast Government.
The Post-publication correspondence is also extensive. It is primarily readers, response. Some of the letters, however, invite Gunther to address various groups, ask for additional information, or offer the correspondent's own views. The correspondence, which comes from all over the worlds, is generally favorable to Gunther's work, but many of the letters take exception to his interpretation, especially those from white settlers in Africa, and particularly in the Union of South Africa. Among the letters of interest are two from Dr. Hastings Banda, at present prime minister of Nyasaland, but then living in the Gold Coast; R. R. Knight, a member of the Canadian House of Commons, and Ann Morisett, an American novelist. Specific correspondence, commenting upon or criticizing individual chapters or parts of chapters, suggesting revisions, pointing out errors of fact, spelling or grammar, is arranged alphabetically by country or area and then alphabetically by author. General correspondence relating to the book as a whole or a substantial portion is arranged alphabetically by correspondent.
The research notes are arranged by country or by area. The majority of the notes are interview notes and, where possible, the interviewee has been identified. Gunther states that he interviewed 1503 persons while preparing his African book. Included among them were governors, colonial officials, embassy and consular staffs, journalist, African chieftains, missionaries, businessmen, nationalists, United Nations personnel, and private citizens. A representative list of the many interviewed would include General Mohammed Naguib, then dictator of Egypt; Kwame Nkrumah, prime minister of the Gold Coast; Edgar Segnier of Union Miniere in the Belgian Congo; the king of Ruanda; U. N. official Ralph Bunche; Zulu Chief Albert Luthuli; author Alan Paton; J. G. Strijdo-, then prime minister of the Union of South Africa; Walter White of the N.A.A. C.P.; the Pasha of Marrakesh; General Augustin Gulliaume, President-General of Morocco; Roy Welenski, white extremist leader of Northern Rhodesia; Sylvanus Olympio, then nationalist leader in Togoland, and Father Trever Huddleston, Anglican missionary in South Africa.
There are also numerous memoranda, articles, and circulars prepared by others for Gunther's use. Included among these notes are a private mimeographed memoranda by Chester Bowles on his 1955 trip to Africa, biographical notes on Various African personalities, and a copy of an article by Santha Rama Rau entitled "The Trial of Jomo Kenyatta," of which only a portion was published in The Reporter.
INSIDE RUSSIA TODAY, published in 1958, was originally conceived as a series of five long articles for Collier's magazine. However, during Gunther's trip to Russia, Collier's ceased publication and Look magazine took over the contract. Look decided to print one very long article instead of the five previously commissioned. The book version, however, is in no way an extension of the Look article. Portions of the Look article are used in the book, but in a heavily revised version, and the approach to the book is from an entirely different point of view. The material concerning this book is contained in twelve boxes.
The manuscripts are as follows:
1. Original manuscript, First Revision or Second Draft (partial), Third Draft (partial) of Look article;
2. Original manuscript of book version, typed and corrected by author;
3. Specialist review copy, however, only those pages with comments by Theodore Shabad, Gunther's "expert," and by Cass Canfield of Harper and Bros. are includes;
4. First Revision or Second Draft, which is only fragmentary. Gunther employed his usual "cut and paste" method and large sections were revised in longhand. However, only those pages which were most heavily revised were retyped. These retyped pages were then further revised and added to the Printer's copy.
5. Printer's copy, with author's corrections and additions;
6. Galley proofs, with author's corrections and additions.
Gunther dictated several of the chapters; therefore, the original manuscript is the recordings. However, after the first typing, Gunther extensively revised these manuscripts, as was his method, and the typescript copies of the dictated chapters with the author's corrections have been included with the original manuscript. The recordings have been filed separately.
The Informational Correspondence is not extensive. it is arranged alphabetically and much of it concerns Gunther's Plans for his trip. Also included among the Informational Correspondence are some post-publication letters from certain of Gunther's personal friends who received complimentary copies of the book. The Post-publication correspondence, which is somewhat more extensive, concerns readers' comment on various questions of fact. It is arranged alphabetically.
The research notes have been catalogues in a different manner for INSIDE RUSSIA TODAY. Gunther reports that he took careful notes of conversations with about eighty Russians; however, many of his notes do not indicate their names or their positions. Rather than arranging the notes by subject, country, or area (and then by interviewee) as has been done with the notes for Gunther's other books, they have been arranged by chapters, according to the original manuscript designation. Therefore, those interview notes which are marked with the name of the interviewee are dispersed throughout the material. Among some of the non-Russians interviewed by Gunther are Charles Bohlen, U.S. Ambassador to Russia, E. E. Orchard of the British Foreign Office, Isaiah Berlin, Louis Fischer,
K. P. S. Menon, Indian Ambassador to Russia, Hamilton Fish Armstrong, Marshall MacDuffie, and numerous embassy and consular officials, journalists and commentators stationed in Moscow or other areas of the Soviet Union. Notes of interviews with directors of universities, museums, institutes, etc., which have been identified are included under the names of their institutions rather than under their personal names. The rest of the notes are arranged by subject within each chapter. However, the designation of the name of a person, Khrushchev for instance, refers to notes about him, not to notes of an interview with him.
Included among miscellaneous materials are a long series of unpublished memoranda written by former Senator William Benton, publisher of Encyclopedia Britannica, on his trip to Russia.
TAKEN AT THE FLOOD, published in 1960, is Gunther's only full-length biography. It is the story of Albert D. Lasker, president of Lord and Thomas and called the "Father of Modern Advertising." The materials concerning this book are contained in nine boxes. The manuscripts are as follows:
1. Original manuscript, typed and revised by the author;
2. First Revision or Second Draft, which is heavily revised. Those pages most heavily revised necessitated retyping and were added to the complete manuscript of this draft. The original manuscripts of these pages are filed separately.
3. Printer's Copy, which is also heavily revised by the author. Those pages most heavily revised were retyped and added to the Printer's Copy. The original manuscripts of these pages are filed separately.
4. Galley Proofs, with author's corrections and additions.
The revisions on the various manuscripts are perhaps more extensive for this book than for any other of Gunther's works.
The Informational Correspondence is quite extensive. There is little printed matter on Albert Lasker and Gunther corresponded with Lasker's family, his friends, and former business associates for information and clarification on certain aspects of his life. Included in this section are long memoranda from the Lasker family suggesting revisions of the First Draft, to most of which Gunther agreed. Among the letters of interest are those from former Senator William Benton, a one-time employee in Lasker's firm, Emerson Foote, vice-president of McCann-Brickson and a former vice-president of Lord and Thomas, Alexander de Seversky, the aeronautical engineer, and Lewis Strauss, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. There are only two folders of Post-Publication correspondence, many of the letters to Gunther relating additional stories about Lasker or different versions of some story in the published work.
The primary source material for the Lasker book is interview notes. All of the interviewees have been identified in the guide. Among them are William Benton, Fairfax Cone, Samuel Goldwyn, Paul Hopkins, Robert Hutchins, Anna Rosenberg, Alexander de Seversky, Herbert Bayard Swope, and David Sarnoff.
There is also one box which might be classified "The Papers of Albert D. Lasker." This box includes correspondence to and from Lasker. copies of correspondence, a copy of Lasker's reminiscences recorded and transcribed by the Oral History Research Office of Columbia University, copies of Lasker's testimony before various congressional committees, and other materials. Of special interest is the correspondence between Lasker and Senator James Murray and his staff concerning congressional action on cancer research and aid to medical education and the correspondence concerning Lasker's resignation as a University of Chicago trustee in 1942.
INSIDE EUROPE TODAY, published in 1961 was originally conceived as an article for Reader's Digest. Gunther, however, turned out the longest article, some 42,000 words, that the Digest had ever received, and it was never published in its entirety. Gunther then added to the material and extended it into a full-length book, approximately three times longer than the Reader's Digest manuscript. The materials concerning this work are contained in eight boxes. The manuscripts are as follows:
1. Original manuscript: Reader/s Digest, typed and corrected by author;
2. First Revision or Second Draft-Reader's Digest, which is heavily revised;
3. Original Manuscript of Additional chapters, which are, in this instance, records of dictation;
4. First Revision or Second Draft of additional chapters, which is a typescript of the dictated chapters heavily revised by author;
5. Printers copy, which is a carbon copy of the material above which has been merged, However, it is heavily revised, with numerous retyped pages and inserts. Gunther employed the "cut and paste" method,
6. Galley proofs, with author's corrections. Several of the chapters have been heavily revised.
No post-publication correspondence was included in the original deposits. The informational correspondence, which is not extensive, concerns mainly factual material. Included among the material are several memoranda by Look officials on, the Polaris missile, interview notes of Louis Duff with Charles Wilson. Secretary of Defense and Admiral Arleigh Burke. Chief of Naval Operations, and a letter from the editorial research Department of Reader's Digest on Harold Macmillan's relationship with the American Macmillan Company.
The majority of the notes are interview notes. Among those interviewed by Gunther were Willy Brandt, Ludwig Erhardt, Georges Bonnet, Jean Monnat, Giovanni Gronchi, Hugh Gaitskell, Selwyn LIoyu, Harold Macmillan, and numerous other European politicians and statesmen, embassy officials, and American journalists and radio commentators.
Included with the Juvenile Books, is the manuscript for DAYS TO REMEMBER-AMERICA 1945-1955, a pictorial book published in 1956, written by Gunther in collaboration with Bernard Quint, the associate art editor of Life. Only the manuscripts for this work are part of the collection. Much of the text was in the form of captions for the 400 or more photographs in the volume. The manuscripts are as follows:
1. Original manuscript, in longhand by author, with corrections;
2. First Revision or Second Draft, typed and heavily revised by author.
Gunther wrote three children's books on historical and mythical characters. They are ALEXANDER THE GREAT. published in 1953, JULIUS CAESAR, and THE GOLDEN FLEECE, the latter two published in 1959, Obviously, there are no interview notes for these works. Only the original manuscript of ALEXANDER THE GREAT, which is very heavily revised, is a part of the collection. Two manuscripts of JULIUS CAESAR are included in the collection:
1. Original manuscript, typed by the author and very heavily revised;
2. First Revision or Second Draft, which is also very heavily revised.
The manuscripts of THE GOLDEN FLEECE are of special interest. In the original manuscript, Gunther faithfully recounted the gory legend of Jason and Medea, but subsequently toned down the bloodthirstiness in later drafts. The manuscripts are as follows:
1: Original manuscript, in longhand by the author with corrections:
2. First Revision or Second Draft, typed and heavily revised;
3. Second Revision or Third Draft, which is also heavily revised by author.
Gunther has also written a series of juvenile works on Africa, which are revised versions for younger readers of some of his chapters from INSIDE AFRICA. He has written a revised version of INSIDE RUSSIA TODAY, entitled MEET SOVIET RUSSIA, published in two volumes in 1962. However, only the manuscripts for MEET THE CONGO are included in the collection. The manuscripts are as follows:
1. First Revision or Second Draft, with corrections by author;
2. Printer's copy, with author's corrections.
Included among the Papers of John Gunther are two boxes of correspondence, mostly between Gunther and his publishers, Harper and Brothers and Hamish Hamilton. Gunther said of this correspondence-"My friends at Harper's perhaps exaggerate, but they say that they have no knowledge of any other file which shows so intimately and over such a sustained period the various factors which are constantly at play in the relationship between a publisher and an author-literary, financial, editorial, etc." The correspondence covers the years from 1936 to 1961. However, the material from 1936 to 1949 is more complete, coming from the files of Harper and Brothers. The post-1949 correspondence was extracted from the original deposit and had been scattered throughout the collection with each specific book, but was brought together in this section. The correspondence deals mostly with publishing matters, but several of the letters contain some of Gunther's views on history, economic theory and other matters. The material has been arranged chronologically.
There is also some miscellaneous correspondence concerned with requests for autographs, asking Gunther to speak at meetings or to contribute articles to journals, or simply friendly letters telling Gunther how much the reader has enjoyed all of his books. Some of the Letters refer to articles Gunther has written in popular magazines or are responses to his television show "High Road."
Chicago Revisited was commissioned and masterminded by Fairfax M. Cone, chairman of the University of Chicago Board of Trustees, and Carl Larsen, director for Public Relations. John Gunther, an alumnus, was asked to write an essay capturing his impressions of the University. The work would be based upon Gunther's visit to the Midway in April 1964 and information compiled by Larsen's office, including faculty profiles.
Gunther's first draft, submitted to Larsen in June 1964, was ready by Cone, who made suggestions as to changes. Many of these were incorporated into a "first revision", authored by Larsen's office. This version was then circulated among administrators and faculty, who were solicited for comments. The "second revision", based on these remarks, was subsequently sent to Gunther for reworking. His final manuscript was published by the University in May 1967. Condensed versions of Chicago Revisited also appeared as articles in Chicago Today, Saturday Review, and Midwest magazines
Joseph H. Rush was the first Secretary-Treasurer of the Federation of American Scientists (FAS). The Joseph H. Rush papers cover the period 1945 through 1948 and deal primarily with the formation and early years of the FAS. The papers consist mostly of letters about the business of FAS or its predecessors. The papers are arranged in their original order and the headings in the guide were those used by Joseph H. Rush.
The Jazz Institute of Chicago Records is organized into five series: Series I, Administrative; Series II, Events; Series III, Publications; Series IV, Musicians and Photographs; and Series V, Oversize. The Jazz Institute of Chicago Records contains administrative material, publications, articles, ephemera, and audio material, which document the institution's events, board meetings, and involvement in the Chicago jazz community.
Series I, Administrative, contains meeting minutes, agendas, budgets, and correspondence from board of directors and committee meetings. There are copies of the by-laws as well as grant information and applications, news releases, brochures, and documentation about website development. Also included are correspondence and other documents with and/or about other jazz related institutions.
Series II, Events, contains a guestbook, articles, fliers, brochures, posters, invitations, postcards, buttons, and other ephemera about Jazz Institute of Chicago sponsored events, performances, conferences, and festivals. Material about the Chicago Jazz Festival include correspondence, press kits, release forms, budgets, articles, reviews, fliers, buttons, and programs. Articles are mostly obituaries of musicians as well as announcements and reviews of performances, exhibits, and other events. See Series V, Oversize, for additional event material.
Series III, Publications, contains newsletters and magazines from jazz societies, organizations, and Chicago jazz publications.
Series IV, Musicians and Photographs, contains articles, photographs, press kits, audio cassettes, and a compact disc of musicians, primarily for auditions of the 1986 and 1987 Chicago Jazz Festivals. There are also photographs and slides of Jazz Institute of Chicago sponsored events. See Series V, Oversize, for additional photographs.
Series V, Oversize, contains posters and ephemera about jazz events in Chicago, and a copy of "Jazz at the Philharmonic" by Norman Granz. Also included are photographs of Tommy Bridges, Billy Brimfield, Doc Cheatham, John DeFauw, Franz Jackson, Steve Jenson, Billy Perry, Bill Rank, Paul Serrano, Joel Spencer, and Mr. Wonderful.
The Jenkin Lloyd Jones papers contain correspondence, diaries, lecture notes, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and photographs. Papers relate to All Souls Church and the Abraham Lincoln Centre. Other topics include the Unitarian Church, the Henry Ford Peace Expedition, the Western Unitarian Conference, the weekly publication Unity, the World's Parliament of Religion, Tower Hill Summer Camp in Wisconsin, and other aspects of Jones' ministry. Correspondents include William C. Gannett, Jane Addams, Susan B. Anthony, Francis W. Parker, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Booker T. Washington. Also contains papers of Edith Lackersteen Lloyd Jones, Jones's second wife; her daughter, Mary Lackersteen; and the Lackersteen family.
The collection is organized into seven series: Series I: Jenkin Lloyd Jones Correspondence; Series II: Henry Ford Peace Expedition, 1915-1916; Series III: Miscellaneous Jenkins Lloyd Jones Materials; Series IV: Edith Lackersteen Jones Correspondence; Series V: Mary Lackersteen Papers; Series VI: Abraham Lincoln Centre Materials; and Series VII: Photographs.
Series VII notably includes images of Jenkin Lloyd Jones, Edith Lloyd Jones and others aboard the Ford Peace Ship in 1915, and includes images of the Hillside Home School, a co-educational boarding school established by Jenkin Lloyd Jones’ sisters Jane and Nell in 1887 and located near Spring Green, Wisconsin. The building was designed by their nephew, Frank Lloyd Wright, then an amateur architect in Chicago. After the school closed down in 1915, Frank Lloyd Wright inherited the building.
The Journal of Religion Records consist of correspondence from the editorial offices of the Journal of Religion and its two predecessors, The Biblical World and the American Journal of Theology. The correspondence concerns articles and book reviews submitted, subscriptions, budgets and financial matters, and printing arrangements with the University of Chicago Press.
The collection is divided into three series: Series I: The Biblical World Correspondence; Series II: American Journal of Theology Correspondence; and Series III: Journal of Religion Correspondence.
The Wilson, John Todd. Papers consist of 4.5 linear feet of speeches and remarks, correspondence, certificates, published papers and book reviews, and Wilson's masters thesis and dissertation. The information in the papers covers the period from 1930 to 1983 and has been arranged into five series: (1) Personal, (2) Writings, (3) National Science Foundation, (4) University of Chicago, and (5) Oversize. Each series has been arranged chronologically.
Series I, Personal, includes bound copies of Wilson's master's thesis and Ph.D. dissertation as well as family genealogy notes written in 1982. Certificates and honorary degrees bestowed on Wilson between 1940 and 1979 are also included in the first series. Series V, Oversize, includes additional certificates and degrees.
Series II, Writings, has been subdivided into two subseries: (1) Published Papers and (2) Book Reviews. The Published Papers include articles written by Wilson between 1943 and 1983. One highlight of this subseries is an original roundtable transcript from the University of Chicago Roundtable program in December 1967. The Book Reviews include reviews written by Wilson between 1947 and 1979.
Series III contains speeches and remarks from his term of office at the National Science Foundation. The material covers the period 1959-1968. This series has been subdivided into two subseries: (1) Speeches and Remarks and (2) Congressional Committee Statements. Subseries 2 also includes speeches and remarks made by Wilson as Assistant Director of the National Science Foundation for Biological and Medical Sciences before United States Congressional committees between 1966 and 1979. Among the items in this series are remarks for a presentation before the National Conference on Title VI-Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Series IV contains speeches, remarks, and some correspondence from Wilson's term of office as Provost and then President of the University of Chicago. The material covers the period 1969 to 1983. This series has been subdivided into two subseries: (1) Provost and President Speeches and (2) Correspondence.
The second subseries contains letters of appreciation received between 1975 and 1981, including congratulations on being elected President of the University.
Series V contains oversized materials. The items in this series include diplomas from Wilson's high school, his B.A. degree from George Washington University, and a membership certificate for the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The Norman Maurice Kaplan Papers consist of course notes, syllabi, and miscellaneous papers in economics collected during Kaplan's graduate years at the University of Chicago. The papers also contain notes from courses at Stanford University and the Graduate School of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
The collection contains two series, Series I, Course Notes and Syllabi Identified by Professor and Series II, Course Notes and Syllabi Identified by Course number or Title.
The Charles A. Bill collection of Yousuf Karsh photographs contains three black-and-white, gelatin silver prints of important world leaders. These images date from 1941 to 1960. The print of Winston Churchill is from an iconic photoshoot that launched Karsh's career. Pope John XXIII's portrait dates to one of four sittings he had with Karsh's studio in 1959. John F. Kennedy's photograph was taken during his presidential campaign in Rhode Island. Upon Kennedy's death in 1963, Life Magazine ran a colorized print from this sitting to celebrate the leader.
The Hugo Kauder Papers and Addenda includes records, holograph manuscript scores, reproduced manuscript scores, and published scores. Many of the scores reproduced by blueprint process bear holograph revisions or dynamic markings in pen or pencil, and a number of scores are inscribed to Edward E. Lowinsky and his family.
The Kauder Papers are arranged in five series: Series I: Phonograph Records; Series II: Holograph Manuscript Scores; Series III: Reproduction Manuscript Scores; Series IV: Published Music; Series V: Addenda Manuscript Scores and Essays. This collection has been assigned Codex Manuscript #1399.
This collection contains the papers of Nathaniel Kleitman, the father of sleep research. The collection is divided into 6 series.
Series I, Biographical, contains information on the life of Nathaniel Kleitman, including obituaries, interview texts, bibliographies and memorial publications.
Series II: Research and Writings, is organized by research topic and contains research data (charts, tables and graphs), article drafts, and notes of Nathaniel Kleitman. Here information from a wide variety of sleep research experiments can be found, including data collected both by Kleitman himself, as well as by his students and colleagues. Edited manuscripts of Kleitman's book Sleep and Wakefulness can be found in Boxes 4-7. This includes material from the 1962 revised edition. Oversized materials from this series are located in Boxes 35-46 of Series VI, containing Kleitman's bibliographic card catalog. A key to Kleitman's color code system used in his card catalog can be found in Box 15 Folder 8.
Series III: Print Publications is organized alphabetically and contains the printed materials Kleitman had collected. These include numerous clippings from newspapers and magazines containing references to sleep in articles, advertisements and cartoons. This series also contains Kleitman's collection of academic reprints, organized alphabetically. Boxes 16 and 17 contain reprints of Kleitman's writings. Oversized materials from this series have been moved to Series VI Boxes 47-49, including newspaper clippings from the Mammoth Cave experiment and other sleep articles.
Series IV, Artifacts and Memorabilia, is organized by format or document type. Here, Kleitman's travel documents, awards, certificates, graduation programs, medals and other memorabilia can be found. Oversized materials from this series have been moved to Series VI Boxes 50-54, including equipment used in Kleitman's research.
Series V: Audio-Visual and Photographs, is organized by format. The photographs in this series include family photographs of Kleitman throughout his life, as well as photographs from his research including ones documenting his time spent in Mammoth Cave. This series also includes audio recordings of Kleitman lectures, videocassette interviews and sleep specials. Oversized materials from this series, including two LP records, have been moved from this series to Series VI Box 53.
Series VI: Oversized Materials contains materials transferred from Series I-V. Descriptive headings can be used to trace these materials to their original locations in Series I-V.
The William Kruskal Papers consist of materials relating to student protests at the University of Chicago and elsewhere in 1969. Although this represents the bulk of the papers in the collection, there are also materials on the Harris Committee materials concerning an Afro-American Cultural Center, the Wegener Report, the Spartacus Report, the Gray Report on the status of women faculty, Edward H. Levi's correspondence, and materials from Kruskal's tenure as a member of the Faculty Committee on Government Contracts and Grants (1964-1973). The materials in the collection include correspondence, memoranda, newspaper clipping, articles, and other materials.
Folder 10 of Box 1 contains materials related to the 1969 "Spartacus" study. In "Spartacus: Discipline and Political Suppression: An Empirical Study," a group of social sciences graduate students criticized the University of Chicago's disciplinary committee, chaired by Dallin Oaks. This paper was presented as one of the occasional papers from the Committee of 500 Against Disciplinary Procedures. Kruskal collected materials related to the Spartacus statement, as well as Miron L. Straf's (a graduate student in the department of Statistics) rebuttal, "A Closer Look at Spartacus.
The Lafayette Manuscripts (Codex Ms 303) comprise primarily documents written by or to Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Montier, Marquis de Lafayette (1757-1834). Also included are letters related to Lafayette's son, George Washington du Motier de Lafayette (1779-1849) and grandson, Edmond du Motier de Lafayette (1818-1888).
Many of the earlier letters in the collection bear witness to Lafayette's fortunes and activities during the revolutionary period in France. Though placed in command of an army that was to attack the Austrian Netherlands in 1792, he was declared a traitor to the Legislative Assembly, and captured while trying to flee the country in August 1792. He was held in Prussian and Austrian prisons until 1797. A letter sent to Lafayette by General Alexis Paul Michel le Veneur (August 11, 1792) documents his military activities, while a fragmentary letter from an American correspondent to an unidentified newspaper on May 26, 1796 protests the conditions of his imprisonment.
Letters dating from 1800 to 1812 document Lafayette's retirement to his country estate during the Napoleonic era.
Soon after the Bourbon Restoration, Lafayette became a deputy, speaking and voting consistently on the liberal side. He took an active interest in revolutionary activities abroad, particularly in South America, Poland, Naples, Spain, Greece and Belgium. The largest group of letters in the collection document Lafayette's political activities and private life during this period. Of particular note is an 1825 letter from Lafayette to inventor and artist Samuel F. B. Morse expressing condolences upon the death of Morse's wife.
The final letters in the collection are related to Lafayette's son and grandson, and primarily document private and family affairs.
Following the main portion of the collection are nine files that were formerly part of the Miscellaneous Manuscripts Collection.
The collection is organized into nine series, and span the period 1940-2004. The bulk of the collection dates from 1970 to 1990.
Series I, Personal, contains a partial copy of Landahl's curriculum vitae and cartoon clippings.
Series II, Correspondence, contains a small collection of personal and professional correspondence. Materials are arranged alphabetically by correspondent.
Series III, Research, contains materials related to Landahl's research activities. This series is organized into five subseries:
Subseries I, Child Language Development, contains materials related to early language development and Landahl's doctoral dissertation project. This subseries contains transcripts of speech samples, as well as statistical analysis.
Subseries II, Craniofacial Anomalies, contains materials connected to Landahl's work at the Center for Craniofacial Anomalies at the University of Illinois Medical Center.
Subseries III, Japan Visipitch Research Project, contains materials relating to Landahl's study of the use of computers to teach Japanese phonemes and intonation. The bulk of this subseries is made up of tabulated data from research subjects.
Subseries IV, General, contains unlabeled and miscellaneous research materials and notes, as well as materials from several smaller projects on glossectomy, teaching Norwegian, and aprodosia.
Subseries V, Index Cards, contains several card files of index cards. These contain notes on dialectical variations, a phonology and phonetics glossary, as well as cue cards from research projects.
Series IV, Writing, contains photocopies and reprints of articles and chapters authored or co-authored by Landahl. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series V, Writings by Others, contains photocopies and reprints of a range of academic papers on various topics in the field of linguistics and speech pathology. These include early language development, glossectomy, acoustic perception, and foreign language learning. Materials are arranged alphabetically by author.
Series VI, Professional Activities, contains materials related to Landahl's participation in workshops and conferences. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series VII, Teaching, contains materials connected to Landahl's teaching career at the University of Chicago. The series contains syllabi, copies of reading materials, lab assignments and instructions, and ungraded student work. Materials are arranged chronologically, with general files of photocopied readings gathered at the end of the series.
Series VIII, Oversize, contains two folders of enlarged research data.
Series IX, Restricted, contains restricted personnel and financial information, grant proposals with social security numbers, evaluative student material, and medical information. Materials in Box 38 are restricted for 50 years from date of record creation. Materials in Box 39 are restricted for 80 years from date of record creation. Materials in Boxes 40-50 are restricted indefinitely.
This series contains restricted personnel and financial information, grant proposals with social security numbers, evaluative student material, and medical information. Materials in Box 38 are restricted for 50 years from date of record creation. Materials in Box 39 are restricted for 80 years from date of record creation. Materials in Boxes 40-50 are restricted indefinitely.
The J. Laurence Laughlin Papers consist of a small collection of writings, correspondence, lectures notes and miscellany. The primary focus of the collection centers on two economic controversies in which Laughlin was involved concerning U. S. silver monetary policy and the legality and benefits of labor unions.
This collection includes materials reflecting the attitudes, language, and stereotypes of an earlier time period. These materials are presented unaltered as historical resources in support of study and research. Inclusion of such materials does not constitute an endorsement of their content by the University of Chicago.
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander users should be aware that this finding aid and materials in the collection may contain images and names of deceased persons.
Please contact us if you encounter problematic description of, or access to, materials about Aboriginal, Torres Strait Islander, or Diné (Navajo) people by notifying staff in person or via the contact form on our website.
The Gerhardt Laves Papers are organized into seven series:
Series I, Personal;Series II, Correspondence;Series III, Professional Life and Associations;Series IV, Publications by Others;Series V, Research on the Bardi Language;Series VI, Photographs;Series VII, Oversize.
The collection contains materials from Laves’ personal and professional life, including his linguistic notes on the Bardi language and photographs; language resources, publications, and maps from Laves’ employment in Navajo Nation; documents and photographs from Laves’ work at the International Harvester Company and the Chicago Police Department; materials related to the Hyde Park and Kenwood neighborhoods; documents related to Laves’ involvement at the University of Chicago; and Laves’ photographs, film negatives, and glass slides documenting family and professional activities. Materials date between 1916 and 1982, with the bulk of materials dating between 1916 and 1949.
Series I, Personal, contains materials related to the Laves’ family life, including Gerhardt and Maxine Laves’ passports; daughters Jean and Elizabeth’s wedding invitations; and two short plays written and performed by childhood friends of the Laves children. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series II, Correspondence, contains Gerhardt Laves’ correspondence with anthropologist Lester Hiatt, congressional representative Abner J. Mikva, and the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. Materials are arranged roughly chronologically.
Series III, Professional Life and Associations, contains materials from various occupations, institutions, and organizations in Gerhardt Laves’ professional life. Materials are divided into five subseries according to the organization and sorted roughly chronologically, following the trajectory of Laves’ involvement.
Subseries 1, Materials related to Navajo Nation, contains documents from Laves’ employment at Indian boarding schools in New Mexico during the 1930s, including language reference resources, reports on soil conservation practices, school bulletins, and several copies of The Navajo Service News.
Subseries 2, International Harvester Company, contains materials from Laves’ employment at the company during the 1940s, including brochures, pamphlets, company publications, training manuals, and employee recruitment materials.
Subseries 3, Chicago Police Department, contains materials from Laves’ work with the CPD from the 1960s and 1970s, including informational brochures and publications, as well as his photographic collection of police department activities, exhibits, and events.
Subseries 4, Hyde Park and Kenwood Neighborhood Materials, contains published materials related to the history of Hyde Park and Kenwood in the 1960s and 1970s, including a pamphlet on the so-called urban renewal years, information on Ray Elementary School, and Hyde Park Historical Society materials on the cable car station renovation.
Subseries 5, University of Chicago, contains materials from Gerhardt Laves’ part-time employment at the University during the 1970s, possibly working as a typist or translator for scholarly work, as well as informational material on the Returning Scholars Program.
Series IV, Publications by Others, contains Laves’ collection of published sociological studies and newspaper articles. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series V, Research on the Bardi Language, contains Laves’ notes from his linguistic research in the Bardi community in Australia during the late 1920s and early 1930s. Please note that while Laves used the term “Barda” in his documentation, the standard spelling for the language and the community is Bardi. Materials remain in their original groupings and order. Please note that the note cards have suffered significant water damage and as a result are extremely fragile. Papers are brittle and should be handled with care.
Series VI, Photographs, contains pre-1920s photographic glass plates by Laves’ father, Ulrich; Laves’ personal and research-related photographs from the 1910s-1930s; and Laves family and vacation photographs from the 1970s. Materials remain in their original groupings and order, and are arranged roughly chronologically.
Series VII, Oversize, contains oversize publications and maps. Materials are sorted according to size.
Series I contains materials related to the Laves’ family life, including Gerhardt and Maxine Laves’ passports; daughters Jean and Elizabeth’s wedding invitations; and two short plays written and performed by childhood friends of the Laves children. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series II contains Gerhardt Laves’ correspondence with anthropologist Lester Hiatt, congressional representative Abner J. Mikva, and the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. Materials are arranged roughly chronologically.
Series III contains materials from various occupations, institutions, and organizations in Gerhardt Laves’ professional life. Materials are divided into five subseries according to the organization and sorted roughly chronologically, following the trajectory of Laves’ involvement.
Series IV contains Laves’ collection of published sociological studies and newspaper articles. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series V contains Laves’ notes from his linguistic research in the Bardi community in Australia during the late 1920s and early 1930s. Please note that while Laves used the term “Barda” in his documentation, the standard spelling for the language and the community is Bardi. Materials remain in their original groupings and order. Please note that the note cards have suffered significant water damage and as a result are extremely fragile. Papers are brittle and should be handled with care.
Series VI contains pre-1920s photographic glass plates by Laves’ father, Ulrich; Laves’ personal and research-related photographs from the 1910s-1930s; and Laves family and vacation photographs from the 1970s.
Laves numbered and labeled many of his photographs and stored them in groups of ten. Not all prints and films encompassed by group labels are present. Though often separated between photographic prints and films, some prints and films are grouped together. Materials remain in their original order and groupings with their original labels, and are arranged roughly chronologically.
Handwritten captions on some print backings contain racist stereotypes about Aboriginal individuals and communities, as well as hypotheses about featured individuals’ ethnic makeup. These materials are presented unaltered as historical resources in support of study and research. Inclusion of such materials does not constitute an endorsement of their content by the University of Chicago.
Box 10 includes photos of Laves family and friends; gatherings, holidays, and trips; the city of Chicago; University of Chicago; landscape photos; and photos from Laves’ research trip to Australia. This box includes prints and postcards labeled “Odd Prints” from 1926-1931; prints and films labeled G1-G54; prints and films labeled 101-570; and prints and postcards filed under “Select Prints” and “Repeat Prints.”
Names of individuals photographed during Laves’ research in Australia and their print number in Box 10 include:
Philip Shannon (466, 471, 517, 545)
Lockland A. Macdonald; Myers Delaney; Mick Dougall; Billy Monklave (468)
Jack Larry (466)
Billy Monblond (471)
Jack Cameron (520)
George Yoke; Florence Shannon Macdonald (526)
Box 11 includes images from sea voyages in Australia; encampments and supplies; Australian plants, animals, and landscapes; churches; photos in and around Lagrange, Cape Leveque, Lombadina Mission (in contemporary Lombadina and Djarindjin); Albany; Ulgundahi Island, and Sandon; and group and individual photos of Aboriginal adults and children, including individuals identified as members of the Karajarri community (spelled in Laves’ materials Karadjeri) and the Yawuru community (spelled in Laves’ materials Yuwari). This box includes films and prints labeled 601-1280 and films and prints labeled “Unfiled Film.”
Names of individuals photographed during Laves’ research in Australia and their print number in Box 11 include:
Arthur (615, unnumbered prints in “Unfiled Film”)
Timothy (615, 812, unnumbered print in “Unfiled Film”)
Father Augustin Spangenberg (667, 680, unnumbered print in “Unfiled Film”
Anton; Malachy; Gerard; Agnes; Philomena (667)
Joe, Martin (686)
Mr. Porter; Miss Stirling (795)
Plytie (831, unnumbered print in “Unfiled Film”)
Tommy (833, 853)
Teddy, child of Tommy (853, 858, 859, 861)
Sandy (853)
Lucy, sister of Tommy (853, 859, 861)
Frank (909)
Peter (929, unnumbered print in “Unfiled Film”)
Sandy (940, unnumbered print in “Unfiled Film”)
Sam (944)
Moses Waibog (1084)
Annie, Mrs. Freddy Winmer (1099)
The sister of Simon Williams (1104)
Lockland A. Macdonald (labeled 467 under “Unfiled Film”)
Alpré; Yanie (unnumbered print in “Unfiled Film”)
Series VII contains oversize publications and maps. Materials are sorted according to size.
Series I of the Ernst Levy papers contain public and biographic items, including correspondence and an interview during his final years (1979-81), biographical notes and essays, and copies of French and German catalogues of his works.
Levy's academic career produced a number of writings and lectures, many of which are collected in Series II. An original and copy of one of his major publications in French – A Theory of Harmony, published posthumously in 1985, is also included here.
Series III of the Ernst Levy papers consist of a significant number of musical compositions, mostly in original score format, from his first string quartet in 1919 to his final sonatas in 1980. Many works contain notes by the composer - typed and attached to the inside front or back cover of the work, usually discussing the nature of the work or performance notes. Most works are original, bound scores kept as reference copies by the composer. A few are published copies, a few appear as copies or photocopies of originals, and a few are handwritten original scores.
The Lewis Family Papers consist principally of legal and business documents connected with the Kentucky lands dealings of John Lewis (1747-1825) and his sons Gabriel (1775-1864) and Warner Washington Lewis (1779-1833).
The collection is split into two series:
Series I, Legal and Business Documents, contains personal notes, memoranda, and bills and receipts pertaining to land dealings and travel. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series II, Correspondence, contains incoming and outgoing correspondence with the Lewis family. The series is split into three subseries, one for each member of the family represented in the material – John, Gabriel, and Warner Washington. Correspondence between the brothers can be found in Subseries 3 (Gabriel Lewis) and materials are organized chronologically within the subseries.
The Eva Overton Lewis and Julian Herman Lewis, MD, PhD Collection is organized into three series:
Series I: Julian Herman Lewis Papers Series II: Eva Overton Lewis Papers Series III: Lewis Family Papers
The collection includes personal ephemera, correspondence, photographs and negatives, one DVD, newspapers, textiles, and memorabilia. Materials date between circa 1887 and 2015, with the bulk of the material dating between the 1890s and the 1940s. The collection is primarily a family collection, documenting the personal lives of Eva, Julian, their parents, and their children. It is a record of middle and upper-class African-American life in Chicago and Cairo, Illinois in the first half of the 20th century. Records of Julian Herman Lewis' research, teaching, and clinical work are much less extensive. Of note is correspondence and ephemera dating to the period when the Lewis family lived in Europe during Julian's Guggenheim Fellowship. This material documents the experiences of an African-American family in 1920s Paris, Basel, and Vienna. Explanatory notes made by a Lewis family descendant (likely Elise Evans Gorun) are found throughout the collection, especially among the correspondence.
Series I, Julian Herman Lewis Papers, is divided into three subseries: 1) Personal Ephemera, 2) Correspondence, and 3) Professional. Subseries 3 is further subdivided into records of Julian Herman Lewis' work at the University of Chicago and his Guggenheim Fellowship. Materials are arranged chronologically in each subseries.
Series II, Eva Overton Lewis Papers, is divided into two subseries: 1) Personal Ephemera, and 2) Correspondence. Materials are arranged chronologically.
Series III, Lewis Family Papers, is divided into 12 subseries:
1) Cordelia O. Lewis2) John Calhoun Lewis3) Lynn Lewis4) Anthony Overton5) Gloria Lewis6) Julian H. Lewis, Jr.7) Lewis Family Ephemera8) Lewis Family Correspondence9) Travel Ephemera10) Photographs and Audiovisual Materials11) Artifacts and Textiles12) Oversize Documents
The first six subseries are personal papers of, or records about, Lewis family members other than Eva and Julian. Subseries seven to ten contain material pertaining to both Eva and Julian, as well as other family members. Correspondence between Eva and Julian is found in subseries eight. The artifacts and garments in subseries 11 most likely belonged to Eva Overton Lewis. Subseries 12 contains items such as diplomas, certificates, and maps belonging to various members of the Lewis family, as well as an alphabetical arrangement of newspapers saved by the family because they contain mention of a family member or a significant world event. Among the newspapers are issues of The Chicago Bee, published by Anthony Overton. The University of Chicago Library Records, Series I contains correspondence, memoranda, minutes, committee reports, budgets, annual reports, accession records, personnel files, the Library Handbook, brochures, and scrapbooks. Materials in the collection document the tenure of Zella Allen Dixson as Assistant Librarian (1892-1895) and Associate Librarian (1895-1910). Also included is material from the administrations of Ernest DeWitt Burton as Director (1910-1925) and J.C.M. Hanson as Associate Director (1910-1927) and Acting Director (1927-1928). Topics include the establishment of the new University's library, library administration, library policies, the Berlin Collection, departmental libraries versus a central library, Harper Memorial Library, classification, gifts and accessions, extension libraries, staffing, information on other libraries, adequate space for collections, and dissertations.
Series I: BIOGRAPHICAL
Series I: ADMINISTRATION
Series II: ACCESSIONS
Series III: CLASSIFICATION
Series IV: EXTENSION LIBRARIES
Series V: EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
Series VI: SCRAPBOOKS
Series VII: ASSOCIATIONS AND CONFERENCES
The collection includes digitized copies of catalogs and other publications relating to exhibits held at the University of Chicago Library’s Hanna Holborn Gray Special Collections Research Center. Print copies of the publications may be located in the Library Catalog. Some are also available for sale from the Special Collections Research Center.
This collection is made up of materials compiled by William E. Barton. A pastor in Oak Park, Illinois, Barton published and lectured on Lincoln extensively. He also maintained connections with fellow Lincoln experts and carried out multiple research projects that delved into the many different facets of Lincoln’s life, times and family history.
The majority of the materials in this collection are portraits of political figures; statesmen and soldiers. Included among these are a small number of non state affiliated professionals, such as writers, clergymen, naturalists, and artists. This collection has been organized in consideration of the material’s size and aimed to make portraits of individuals readily accessible to researchers.
This collection is organized into three series: Series I: Individual Portraits, Series II: Group Portraits and Series III: Oversized Portraits.
Series I is arranged alphabetically and contains individual portraits of presidents, statesmen, abolitionists, clergymen, artists and writers. Series II is an arrangement of group portraits; engravings and photographs, whose subject matters centers on the Civil War. These include group images of the Union and Confederate armies represented under central themes, such as Naval Officers or a General with his Officers of Staff.
Series III contains oversized materials and is organized into two subseries; mirroring the two prior series. Subseries 1 are oversized individual portraits, arranged alphabetically. There are also presidential portraits accompanied with a biography of the individual housed here. Subseries 2 contains oversized group portraits of Presidents, United States Independence Anniversary, and Carrier’s of the Press. Please note there are also three photographs picturing William E. Barton housed here.
This series is composed of engravings, lithographs, and drawings of historical American figures. They are arranged alphabetically for accessibility.
This series is composed of engravings and lithographs of group portraits. The subjects of these groups include Union and Confederate Officers and soldiers as well as Presidential portraits.
This series is composed of lithograph and engraved portraits of historical American figures. The materials housed here are divided into two subseries according to the portrait’s size. Subseries 1 houses individual portraits and Subseries 2 group portraits. Please note that there are additional portraits of some historical figures in BOXes 1-3 housed in this series.
The Lincoln Collection Monuments and Memorials makes up the portion of the Barton Collection of Lincolniana which maintains photographs and newspaper articles detailing monuments and memorial sites relating to Lincoln. The collection also contains reproductions of places and events relating to the Civil War. The Lincoln Collection Monuments and Memorials is arranged into three series: Series I, Lincoln Monuments and Memorials, Series II, Civil War Places and Events, Series III, Oversize. The images and articles in these series form part of William E. Barton’s extensive collection of Lincolniana.
Series I, Lincoln Monuments and Memorials, consists of photographs, articles, and a map detailing various sites that relate to the life and death of Lincoln. It is divided into three subseries according to location. This series is mainly comprised of sites located in Illinois, but also includes those in Washington D.C., and Kentucky. Sites include Lincoln’s childhood home, the gravesite of his father, Thomas Lincoln, and Ford Theater, where Lincoln was fatally injured. The map is of New Salem, IL where Lincoln resided from 1831-1837. See Series III, Oversize, for additional material.
Series II, Civil War Places and Events, consists of photographs, drawings, and articles on sites and occurrences relating to the Civil War. A large portion of this series contains scrapbook photographs and captions of monuments and memorials located in Gettysburg, PA as well as sites in Virginia and Maryland. These photographs are possible remnants of a trip taken by Barton through select Civil War states during 1900. They have been kept in the order in which they were received. The newspaper clippings as well as the daily illustrated newspapers detail the dedication of various Civil War monuments, including the Soldiers’ National Monument erected in Gettysburg, PA in 1869. The postcards contain photographs of Civil War monuments, a large portion of which are of those in Gettysburg, PA. The illustrations detail various events that occurred throughout the war, including the capture of rebel congressmen, naval conquests, and the execution of prisoners. There are standard and oversize reproductions of various events and places associated with the Civil War, including Lincoln’s signing of the Emancipation Proclamation. There is an oversize map of the United States which was featured in the Illustrated London News in 1861. See Series III, Oversize, for additional material.
Series III, Oversize, contains oversize material and is arranged by size. Included are newspaper clippings, daily illustrated newspapers, maps, and reproductions of various places and events associated with the Civil War.
The Lincoln Collection Sheet Music has been arranged into four series: Series I, Civil War Era Sheet Music, Series II, Lincoln Sheet Music, and Series III, Nineteenth Century American Sheet Music, and Series IV, Civil War Song Sheets. The sheet music in these various series formed part of William E. Barton’s extensive collection of Lincolniana. Little is known about the origin of the music but some were originally inventoried and reviewed against standard resources.
Series I, Civil War Era Sheet Music, consists of sheet music materials which fall under the categorical theme of Civil War Era. It is arranged alphabetically by lyricist or composer. This series is mainly comprised of soldier and funeral marches, but also housed here are scores that commemorate battles and fallen soldiers such as E.E. Ellsworth.
Series II, Lincoln Sheet Music, consists of memorial songs, dirges, and funeral marches in sorrow for the loss of Abraham Lincoln. In this series are also songs in support of Lincoln and the conquest of the Civil War and those in general commemoration to his life as chief of the nation. The reference for this collection: Warren, Louis A. Lincoln Sheet Music. Check List. Fort Wayne, Ind. Lincolniana Publishers. 1940.
Series III: Nineteenth Century American Sheet Music contains material which offer a general survey of popular music from 1851-1878. The types of musical compositions represented here include polkas, mazurkas, schottisches, quicksteps, waltzes, marches, and practice pieces for the piano and piano-forte with variations provide. Also featured here at the end of the collection are a number of musical pieces from the composer Stephen C. Foster; among them is one of his most notable pieces titled “Beautiful Dreamer.”
Series IV, Civil War Song Sheets, contains song sheets with the lyrics of pieces encouraging the support of the Union and dirges in memorial of Lincoln’s death. They are arranged and described according to the entry in: WOLF, Edwin, 2nd. American Song Sheets, Slip Ballads, and Poetical Broadsides 1850-1870. A catalogue of the Collection of the Library Company of Philadelphia. Philadelphia: The Library Company of Philadelphia. 1963.
The Luther Lee Bernard Papers include various types of data that Bernard collected for his studies, only part of which apparently was included in his published works. Generally this data can be divided into two general groups: 1) Material, mostly responses to a form letter, relating to the development of the teaching of sociology in American colleges and universities; and 2) the intellectual careers of influential and pioneer sociologists. The collection also includes correspondence relating to these projects.
The material concerning the development of the teaching of sociology is composed of outlines for compiling data; a form letter requesting information from universities and colleges; some correspondence with individuals concerning departmental histories; and several documents, each one relating the history of sociology at a particular university. The material concerning sociologists’ intellectual careers is composed of outlines for compiling data; a form letter requesting information from sociologists; correspondence about autobiographies and biographies of sociologists; and documents, autobiographical and biographical, some of which were written by Bernard. With the miscellaneous correspondence are a few letters from 1938 concerning controversies over affiliation with the International Federation of Sociological Societies, and about the formation of a Sociological Research Association among members of the American Sociological Society, of which Bernard was president in 1932. In a few cases, a single piece of correspondence or a single document is relevant to both groups of data. The article is then filed with the biographical material. A small body of correspondence concerning both groups of data could not be sorted alphabetically, as more than one letter appears on a single sheet of paper. For this correspondence, an alphabetical list of the sociologists addressed appears in the guide.
The Lloyd Appleton Metzler Papers include several manuscripts, typescripts, and notes for unidentified books, a draft of his Harvard thesis, and reprints of Metzler's articles for The Review of Economic Statistics and Econometrica. The materials remain in their original order and date approximately from the 1940s to the 1950s.
The collection contains handbills advertising state lotteries in Britain from 1806 through the last state lottery held in 1826.
The Lyne Estate Records consist primarily of Lyne's own business records from the last years of his life and of various papers related to the execution of his will by Harry Innes, a United States District Judge in the state of Kentucky and a personal friend of Lyne.
A letter from G.S. Todd of Frankfort, Kentucky to Mary S. Payne (Folder 1) suggests that the Lyne Papers may have come to Durrett through Mrs. Payne. According to this letter, she received the papers from Mr. Todd, who found them among some Harry Innes papers then in his possession.
The remaining papers have been arranged in three categories – account books, general estate records, and manumission papers.
The account books (Folders 2-6) are bookkeeping records of Lyne's income and during the five-year period from 1786 to 1791.
The general estate papers (Folders 7-9), consist of various business papers (bills, receipts, letters, etc.) relevant to Lyne's affairs during his lifetime and to the settlement of his estate after his death. These materials span the period 1774-1804, though some are undated.
The manumission papers (Folder 10) contains papers related to the care of Lyne's slaves after his death in preparation for their manumission, according to Lyne's testamentary wish. Most of these papers are records of Innes' reimbursement from the Lyne estate for the expenses he incurred in providing clothing, shelter, medical care, and trade training for slave children. Also included are a judicial note concerning the emancipation process and a record of a chancery court case.

