The Agallian Base Ball Club was the first formally organized baseball team at Wesleyan University from 1864 to 1871. This collection contains the surviving records of the club. The two scorebooks provide detailed inning-by-inning statistics for Agallian players for each of the recorded games; most games have dates and duration of time ascribed to them and scorer and umpire identification. Some matches which are recorded in these volumes took place against other Wesleyan teams as well as Connecticut baseball clubs and teams from other universities.
Captain Joseph Wright Alsop (1772-1844) was the eighth child and second son of Richard Alsop II, who was the first of the Middletown Alsops and a prominent merchant trader at the time. He was raised primarily by his mother after his father Richard died when he was four years old. In his youth, he struggled with a gambling addiction, though he overcame this vice and made his way up the seafaring hierarchy. Eventually becoming a captain, he reopened the West India trade, which was originally established by his father. He married Lucy Whittlesey in 1797 and had six children with her. Alsop was said to enjoy a popular reputation within Middletown.
The Joseph Alsop Ship's Manifest is a single 1805 document, which lists the cargo of the Brig Thetis of Hartford. The Brig Thetis was owned by Joseph W. Alsop of Middletown and David Watkinson and William Watkinson of Hartford, and captained by Alsop. According to the manifest, the cargo listed was taken aboard at St. Croix and Turks Islands on December 6, 1804 and was bound for Middletown. The manifest also suggests that the Brig Thetis itself was built in Middletown. Items listed in the manifest include rum, molasses, empty bottles, coconuts, oranges, sugar, salt and old iron. The back side of the manifest was completed on October 12, 1805, presumably upon the ship's arrival in Middletown. The surveyor George Wolcott acted as witness, signing his name and verifying the manifest as accurate.
After the Wesleyan centennial celebration in 1931, a few alumni began documenting their memories of Wesleyan. In 1939, the Alumni Council set up a Committee on the Collection of Recollections, which canvassed alumni for memories of faculty and anecdotes about Wesleyan history.
This collection contains anecdotes written by Wesleyan alumni from the classes of 1859 to 1936. Major topics include their experiences with former Wesleyan professors, pranks performed with their classmates, the burning of North College in 1906, and the arrival of women on campus in 1872.
Albert began what would become the New England mill project in August of 1981, as a solo endeavor. Largely based on her own reading and library research, she aimed "to find and photograph every extant textile mill in southern New England." She photographed mills in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. Her works also includes photographs of mental hospitals and images taken in New England, New York state, France, Cuba, Portugal, Spain, London, Italy, Eastern Europe, Vienna, Barcelona, Bosnia, Slovenia, Croatia, and Berlin.
The papers consist of research notes, negatives, slides, and photographs (both mounted and unmounted).
The Alpha Delta Phi Records consist of materials related to the Middletown Chapter at Wesleyan University including its alumni groups, the Adelphic Educational Fund (AEF) and the Adelphic Literary Society (ALS). Ranging from 1832 - 2017, the materials include correspondence, minutes, annual reports, constitutions, by-laws, handbooks, manuals, invitations, newspaper and article clippings, photographs, postcards, publications, songbooks, histories, shirts, event posters, architectural drawings, banners, audio recordings, video recordings, and realia. The records cover the history of the chapter through its formation, development and management of the ALS and AEF, management of its eating club The Star & Crescent, its involvement with co-education, the split with the Alpha Delta Phi International Fraternity, the formation of the Alpha Delta Phi Society, and its relations with Wesleyan University.
Wesleyan University restarted its dormant chapter in the American Association of University Professors with a new constitution on October 9, 1974. Over the following two decades, the chapter took part in negotiations with the administration, including University President Colin Campbell. Beginning in 1977, Nathanael Greene, Vice President for Academic Affairs, would serve as Campbell’s liaison to the AAUP. The activities of the group appear to have dropped off around 1990.
This collection includes operating documents, memoranda, correspondence and notes of the Wesleyan chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) from 1973 to 1987. It also includes published information from the national AAUP and from AAUP branches at other institutions, most notably Yale and Trinity College. It also contains books and pamphlets put out by the AAUP, mainly from the 1970s, as well as membership kits from several years. The chronological files contain notes, memoranda, and correspondence from members of the AAUP to the group, and between the AAUP and the administration.
In the 1970s, Wesleyan University students became active against national nuclear arms policies and practices, especially those in New England. The groups of Wesleyan University students involved were the Committee on Environmental Awareness, Connecticut Citizens Conference, Nuclear Resistance Group and Students Opposed to Nuclear Arms Race. These groups organized campus wide informational meetings, showed films and actively participated in walking onto a nuclear arms site in Seabrook, New Hampshire, on April 30, 1977. Around forty Wesleyan Students, along with other activists, were arrested, and some were convicted of criminal trespass due to the April 30 protest.
The collection includes statements from the Committee on Environmental Awareness, Connecticut Citizens Conference, Nuclear Resistance Group and Students Opposed to Nuclear Arms Race. Materials include meeting minutes, flyers, notes and Wesleyan and Connecticut press on their activism and other notes and news from the groups. Campus news articles and memos provide accounts of participation in national protests and correspondence with students who were arrested for various protests.
 John Emory Andrus was a member of the Wesleyan class of 1862 and later held a position as a trustee from 1889-1932. A significant benefactor to the school, Andrus is he namesake for Andrus Field and the John E. Andrus Center for Public Affairs. Andrus was also involved in politics, business, and philanthropy and founded the Surdna Foundation.
The John E. Andrus Papers (1862-1934) include documents; business, political, and personal correspondence; and Wesleyan academic work.
In January 1982, Wesleyan University eliminated their aid-blind admissions policy. In response, students from a group called the April 29th Coalition protested the University's decision. The organization collected 1,284 signatures of students demanding Wesleyan return to an aid-blind system. They also demanded several changes to the financial aid and admissions system. Later in the semester, students held a 150 hour sit-in on the second floor of North College, one hour for each year that the University had existed. Although their primary demand for reestablishing the aid-blind system was not met by the end of the semester, President Colin Campbell wrote a statement that the students' demands would be addressed at the next the Board of Trustees meeting and that reinstituting the former policy would be given the highest priority if and when circumstances permitted.
This collection includes meeting notes of the April 29th Coalition, a series of Press Releases, correspondence letters written from students involved in the sit-in, and the 1,284 petition signatures. It also includes a letter of solidarity written to the students of Medgar Evers College.
The Apostles Club was a group of faculty members at Wesleyan University who met once a month from 1894 until 1967 for literary and social purposes.
The bulk of the Apostles Club Records are meeting minutes, with a small amount of correspondence, clippings, and lists of members.
 The Asian American Student Coalition or AASC, "strives to strengthen the voices of Asian Americans through social awareness, progressive action, and political empowerment," according to the mission statement on the University's student groups listing. In 2007, the AASC became particularly vocal after The Board of Trustees denied Allan Isaac tenure. Students protested throughout the year, and Professor Isaacs was ultimately tenured the following spring.
The Asian American Student Coalition Records contain materials from around 2007 and 2008 including several pieces of fabric emblazoned with slogans like "Tenure Isaac" and a silhouette of a canary, documentation on Asian American activism and cultural efforts on campus and the Isaac tenure case, newspaper articles, meeting rosters and other ephemera, photographs, petition letters and emails, and fliers that document the Isaac tenure case and issues relating to Asian Americans and Asian American culture in academia and campus life.
The Wesleyan University Athletic Council began in 1903 and was comprised of faculty, alumni, and students. The Council regulated most aspects of athletics including the administering of budgets, negotiations with other schools for intercollegiate matches and scheduling, player eligibility rules, hiring and supervising coaches, establishing records, and the awarding of varsity letters.
This collection contains complete minutes of the meetings of the council from 1903-1958, a redrafted constitution following the 1923 change in responsibilities, and account books containing departmental and individual teams’ expenses.
The Atwater family included Wilbur O. Atwater, Wesleyan alumnus and professor, and his wife, Marcia Woodard Atwater. They had two children: Helen Woodard Atwater, a home economist and Charles Woodard Atwater, a lawyer.
The Atwater Family Papers contain the publications, personal papers and letters of members of Wilbur Olin Atwater's family. The collection centers around Wilbur Olin Atwater, Marcia Atwater (his wife), William Atwater (his father), Helen Atwater (his daughter) and Charles Atwater (his son). The majority of the collection is composed of letters written and received by the aforementioned people. They primarily discuss familial, financial or personal matters; with the exception of the papers of Helen Atwater, for whom there is a significant collection of papers and publications relating to her work in the field of Home Economics. The correspondence centers on family topics; current events are rarely discussed in the letters.
The Athletic Teams' Records contain a number of volumes that document personal and team records for Wesleyan teams including both Wesleyan records and intercollegiate athletic records set during athletic contests. Some volumes contain detailed scoring information and statistics from teams including baseball and football. Other sports represented in the collection include golf, hockey, lacrosse, basketball, swimming, boating, softball, and tennis.
Four generations of Atwaters and their spouses are represented in the family papers: William Warren Atwater (1814-1874), Wilbur Olin Atwater (1844-1907), Helen Woodard Atwater (1876-1947), Charles Woodard Atwater (1885-1946), Catherine Merriam Atwater (1913-2008), Charles Woodard Atwater, Jr. (1920-2002). The Atwaters are associated mostly with Middletown, Connecticut and Plandrom, New York. The papers contain correspondence, photographs, financial and estate papers, research and student notes, and other materials. The papers include family correspondence about family and home matters, travel and visitors; college and social life; and career and professional activities. Wilbur Olin Atwater's letters describe his work and travels in Washington, D.C., Europe, Russia, and Cuba. Helen Atwater's materials include her household and personal finances, and letters from a colleague about war-time and post-war Holland. Some of her correspondence addresses her work in the federal Department of Home Economics. Charles' letters to Helen offer her occasional investment and banking advice. Correspondence between Catherine Atwater Galbraith and her brother Robert discuss family matters including their brother Charles' mental health, condition, and care.
Atwater Family Papers contain correspondence, photographs, financial and estate papers, research and student notes, and other materials from four generations of the family. The papers include family correspondence about family and home matters, travel and visitors, letters from college include commentary on classes, lectures, concerts, and social life, and career and professional activities. Wilbur Olin Atwater's documents include study notes and some college lab notebooks, materials from his research travels in Europe, Russia, and Cuba as well as letters describing his work and travels. His daughter Helen's materials include her household and personal finances, and letters from a colleague about war-time and post-war Holland. Some of her correspondence addresses her work in the federal Department of Home Economics. Wilbur's son Charles' letters to Helen offer her occasional investment and banking advice, noting in 1932 "it is anti-social to horde money at this stage." Correspondence between Catherine Atwater Galbraith and her brother Robert discuss family matters including their brother's mental health, condition, and care. Charles letters describe his work as a farm hand prior to college and during vacations, his service experience as Pharmacist's Mate, and his deepening interest in foreign policy immediately following his military service.
Stephen Beekman Bangs was born on March 15, 1823. He attended Wesleyan, but left the university in 1842 during his senior year due to poor health. He later graduated with a B.A. from New York University in 1843. Bangs became a minister and in 1844 was part of the New York Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. He died on March 21, 1846 in Milford, CT.
The Stephen Beekman Bangs Letters consist of letters dating from 1840 to 1841 from Bangs to his friend and Yale student, Sylvester Smith. Topics of conversation include Bangs planning visits to see Smith in New Haven, Bangs' preference of the city of New Haven over Middletown, discussion of activities and classes at Wesleyan, Bangs' poor health and temporary leaving the University, and discussion of mutual friends and acquaintances.
Osmon Cleander Baker attended the Wesleyan Academy (now Wilbraham Academy) and Wesleyan University. Active in the Methodist Episcopal church, he taught and administered at the Newbury Seminary in Vermont and the Methodist General Biblical Institute, in Concord, New Hampshire. In 1852, he was elected a bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
The Osmon C. Baker Collection is arranged into two main series. The first, Accession #1000-85, contains materials from Baker's education at Wesleyan University, including notes, essays, and an autograph album. The second series, Accession #1000-208, is mostly comprised of correspondence to and from Baker. The correspondence begins during Baker's time at the Wesleyan Academy and continues to his service as a bishop in the Methodist Episcopal Church. The series also includes family materials and a small number of writings by Baker.
Bennet graduated from Wesleyan University, class of 1959, and was president of that institution from 1995 to 2007. These professional papers contain materials from his undergraduate studies, including materials from Bennet's position as co-president of fraternity Alpha Chi Rho. There are also materials from his graduate studies at the University of California, Berkeley, and at Harvard University. The bulk of the materials cover his professional career, beginning as administrative assistant to Ambassador Chester Bowles in India in the mid 1960s, and continuting through his many years in Washington D.C. He was a speech writer for Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey from 1967 to 1968 and the collection contains realia from the 1968 Humphrey/Muskie presidential election. In the early 1970s, Bennet was an administrator, first for senator Thomas F. Eagleton and then for Abraham Ribicoff. As administrator for Senator Eagleton, he helped craft the Democratic Platform in the 1972 election and was active in Eagleton's political campaign. Bennet ran for the House of Representatives in 1974 and went on to be the staff director for the newly-formed Senate Budget Committee from 1974 to 1977. Bennet served twice as Assistant Secretary of State, as Assistant Secretary of State for Congressional Relations from 1977 to 1979, and as Assistant Secretary of State for International Affairs from 1993 to 1995. He also served as administrator for the Agency for International Development (AID), 1979 to 1981. The AID series contains many photographs. This collection also contains material on Bennet's two years as president of the Roosevelt Center for American Policy Studies and some material from his ten years as president of National Public Radio. The personal series includes a family scrapbook containing a 19th century sampler.
Correspondence, chronological files, subject files, photographs, realia and one scrapbook.
Eldon Benjamin Birdsey was born in Lyme, CT, on July 26, 1848. A member of Wesleyan Class of 1871, Birdsey became the first prosecuting attorney of the Middletown city court in 1879 serving until 1883 when he was elected as the probate judge for the Probate District of Middletown. After leaving public office, Birdsey continued to practice law and served the citizens of Middlesex County. In 1885, he was elected as a trustee of Middletown Savings Bank, of which he served as the attorney for the bank and later a director of the bank. Birdsey was married to Caroline E. Chase with whom he had one daughter, Laura Chase, born March 23, 1878. Birdsey died on December 6, 1917.
This collection consists of a notebook created by Eldon Benjamin Birdsey. The notebook was made for J.W. Hewitt, a classics professor at Wesleyan and friend of Birdsey. The notebook includes various entries dealing with Birdsey's philosophy on life, observances of nature, his own poetry, quoted poetry, and Middletown. The notebook also includes transcribed correspondence from Birdsey to friends of Birdsey. The correspondence ranges in date from 1898 to 1913. The document also includes materials added after the death of Birdsey including his obituary and a chronology of important events in his life.
Lorenzo Whiting Blood, Methodist minister, was born April 13, 1812 in Mason, Hillsborough County, New Hampshire. He graduated Wesleyan University in the class of 1838.
The volume is a 131-page manuscript diary kept by Blood from May 17, 1835 to July 28, 1844. All entries are shorter than a full page, apart from a few exceptions. The diary begins with Blood describing his abusive childhood, and he then introduces himself as a freshman at Wesleyan University. During his freshman year, he became a member of the Missionary Lyceum student organization, and he traveled across Connecticut preaching at the Connecticut State Prison in Wethersfield, the American Asylum, at Hartford, for the Education and Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb (now American School for the Deaf), Middletown's African-American Cross Street A.M.E. Zion Church, and many other Methodist churches. On November 14, 1835, Blood left Wesleyan University to teach at a school in Cheshire; however, the following March the school was shut down. He returned to Wesleyan University a semester behind but took twice the course load to catch up. On November 3, 1836, Blood left Wesleyan University again, this time to teach at the Amenia Seminary. He relished in the chance to preach, but on March 16, 1837, he came down with the measles, leaving him the verge of death for two months. Blood did recover and went on to graduate Wesleyan University near the top of his class in 1838. After commencement, he received a job in Litchfield, and then decided to set up a select school in Bradleysville on November 13, 1838. During this time, Blood dealt with an adulterous husband, whose wife feared that he will leave the family; curiously the majority of this entry is crossed out in the diary. After his school was shut down, Blood married Elizabeth Smith and moved to a small Methodist church in South Hadley. On March 1, 1841 their first daughter, Mary, was born and on June 13, 1841, Blood was ordained as deacon to Stafford. The diary ends after Blood was appointed the Methodist minister to Mystic, Connecticut. Blood often felt incapable of preaching God's work, and continually admitted it through his entries. Blood also occasionally remarked on his support for the abolitionist movement, with hope that the Methodist Church would follow suit.
The Broadside Case Collection contains many oversized documents from a variety of sources. Included are photographs, architectural drawings, posters, maps, and other material related to Wesleyan University.
The professional papers of Wesleyan's eleventh president, Dr. Victor Lloyd Butterfield, include correspondence, reports, meeting minutes, appointment calendars, speeches, newspaper clippings and photographs. The majority of the material makes up the administrative records of his time as President of the university, but also includes some material from his childhood, time as Director of Admissions at Wesleyan, and post-retirement. A small section of the materials are those of Katharina Geyer Butterfield, Victor's wife.
Carl Carlson was a Wesleyan University student between 1937 and 1941 but did not graduate. He was killed in World War II.
The Carl Carlson Papers contain Wesleyan course work, prose and poetry by Carlson, and correspondence.
Arthur Benjamin Calef, Wesleyan class of 1851, served in a variety of governmental positions in Middletown and Middlesex County, Connecticut and in the state as a whole, as well as being a delegate to the National Republican Conventions in 1860 and 1864.
Excepting two copies of court records from 1851 and 1853, the collection contains correspondence addressed to Arthur Benjamin Calef dating from 1856 to 1861. John Woodruff is the author of the bulk of the correspondence; his letters - usually marked private - chiefly relate to the political situation in Washington, D.C. and Connecticut, especially with regards to pre-Civil War tensions, campaigning, and Calef's appointment to the position of Middletown Postmaster. Other letters are also primarily politically motivated, but include requests for references from Calef or requests that he exert his influence to procure letter-writers certain positions, etc. These letter-writers include Connecticut Governor William A. Buckingham.
Albert Camus (1913-1960) was an influential intellectual and writer. He was born and raised in Algeria, but spent most of his life during World War II and afterwards in France. Camus received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1957.
The Albert Camus Papers consist of correspondence, manuscript and typescript drafts of Camus writings, photographs, and a questionnaire completed by Camus, which was sent to him by Wesleyan Professor Carl Viggiani. All materials are in French.
Daguerreotypes and an ambrotype make up the mid-nineteenth century cased images. Most of the images are individual head and shoulder portraits, some in composites, a few are full length portraits. Typically the individuals depicted bear a Wesleyan connection.
John Cage (1912-1992) was an experimental musician, composer, and writer.
The John Cage papers described in this document include manuscripts, interviews, fan mail, and ephemera. Other material, including clippings, gallery and exhibition catalogs, a collection of Cage's books and serials, posters, objects, exhibition and literary announcement postcards, and brochures from conferences and other organizations are also part of the Wesleyan Cage collection, and will be described in this finding aid in the future.
The Center for Advanced Studies (CAS) was founded at Wesleyan University in 1959 and existed until 1969. The CAS invited fellows to reside at Wesleyan and participate in the intellectual life of the campus. Each year, the fellows were a diverse group of academics, scientists, social scientists, writers, artists, and other intellectuals. Sigmund Neumann served as director of CAS from 1959-1962, Paul Horgan from 1962 until 1967, and Phillip Hallie as acting director from 1967-1969. Victor Butterfield, president of Wesleyan University until 1967, was actively involved in the Center.
The Center for Advanced Studies Records include general files, annual reports, publicity, photographs, a scrapbook, lists of fellows and those under consideration as fellows, and recordings. Throughout the collection, documentation from 1967 to 1969 is somewhat sparse.
During early October 1931, Wesleyan University celebrated its centennial. The event brought together current students, faculty, alumni, parents, and honored guests including the Canadian Prime Minister. The events also consisted of banquets, concerts, recitals, lectures, and sporting events.
The Wesleyan Centennial Records features a scrapbook with badges, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, menus, playbills, and other materials. Other materials in the collection include large photographs and correspondence, including telegrams and typed letters regarding the centennial events.
Wesleyan University's Memorial Chapel was built and dedicated in 1871. It was intended to commemorate those Wesleyan students and alumni who fought in the Civil War, and later additions of stained glass windows acknowledge student service in other wars. The Memorial Chapel has been the main site of religious ceremonies at Wesleyan since 1871. The services were primarily Methodist.
The Chapel Programs Collection consists of programs from regular religious services, as well as vesper services, university services, and special dedicatory and memorial services.
Sidera Chase was born on October 31, 1818, in Hoosick, New York. He was a member of Wesleyan Class of 1842. While at Wesleyan, Chase was a member of the fraternities Delta Kappa Epsilon and Phi Beta Kappa. Chase was also a founding member of the Mystical Seven at Wesleyan. Chase had a teaching career in Middletown and eventually became principal of the Female Institute in Middletown (1848-1854) and later the Newark Wesleyan University in New Jersey. Chase had a stint in manufacturing from 1854 until 1861, which was interrupted due to the Civil War, and continued again from 1866 to 1869. Chase later was the U.S. Deputy Collector in New York's First District from 1869 until 1873. Chase later worked as a member of the editorial staff of the New York Tribune (1873-1887). Following his working career, Chase engaged in study and writing until his death on September 21, 1897, in Nordhoff, New Jersey. Chase was the brother of the first Wesleyan graduate, Daniel Henry Chase. Chase was married to Sarah Johnson of Middletown. They had four children.
The Sidera Chase Papers consist of three journals ranging in date from 1841 to 1849 and one C.W.L.F. Morrow & Co. Pattern Book (1857-1886). The journals mainly consist of Chase's reflections on faith. The C.W.L.F. Morrow & Co. Pattern Book contains cloth pattern clippings and notes by Chase dating from 1857 until 1871. The pattern book was also used as a scrap book and contains clipped cartoons, articles, and poetry which start from the back of the book and cover over some of the writings by Chase. These scrapbook clippings are from the 1880s, ending in 1886.
A lifelong Democrat, William M. Citron served as a member of the Connecticut State Assembly, Connecticut State Legislature, and had two terms in the United States Congress as a representative for Connecticut. He served in the Army in both World War I and World War II. Citron was an outspoken opponent of anti-semitism and, in 1935, wrote to the U.S. Olympic Committee to urge that American athletes boycott the Olympics scheduled to take place in Berlin in the summer of 1936. He also made remarks (printed in the Congressional Record), that the United States' attendance at the Olympic events would give tacit approval to the racist practices of the Nazi government. In addition, Citron introduced legislation to regulate development along the Connecticut River and to provide flood control. His career was most active during the Great Depression, and he was a participant in the New Deal.
This collection contains materials documenting the life and political career of William M. Citron, and spans the dates 1918 to 1966. The bulk of the materials concern Citron's political career, and consist of clippings, correspondence, subject files, reports, speeches, and press releases. A small amount of biographical and personal materials are also contained in the collection.
Do Gieng Ciu, a member of the Wesleyan class of 1916, was a native of China. In 1921, Ciu returned to Kutien, China, to become a missionary.
The Do Gieng Chu Collection contains two photographs of Do Gieng Ciu and map of Kutien with photograph inset of Ciu.
The class of 1873 Boat Club was organized on October 4, 1870, by 19 members of the class of 1873. It participated in the first Wesleyan regatta, which was held July 19, 1871, with the clubs of the classes of 1872, 1873, and 1874 competing.
The Class of 1873 Boat Club Records and Rowing Scrapbooks contains three scrapbooks about Wesleyan regattas as well as several items about other collegiate regattas.
Class Day was an annual celebration related to the commmencement exercises at Wesleyan University, and usually occurred in June. Programs often included speeches, musical performances, poetry, and the awarding of prizes. The programs were arranged by members of the graduating class and featured their fellow senior students.
The Class Day Programs include programs for every year between 1864 and 1940 except 1881 (includes invitations but no programs), 1886, 1891, 1918, 1927, 1930, 1931, 1933, 1936-1939.
Wesleyan University began holding reunions for its alumni in the late 1860s. Prior to that, alumni stayed in touch with one another through correspondence. The University began compiling news and events related to its graduates beginning in the 1850s, and these collections of updates were frequently gathered into volumes distributed to class members.
The Class Reunion Books typically contain letters or information from alumni with news of their families, careers, and other updates. They also contain reminiscences of Wesleyan. Later books frequently include photographs.
Laban Clark (1778-1868) worked as a missionary and an elder in the Methodist Church in New York state. He suggested Middletown, Connecticut as the site of a Methodist college, Wesleyan University, and served as the first president of Wesleyan's Board of Trustees.
The Laban Clark Papers contain correspondence, sermons, lectures, and journals by Laban Clark, as well as papers about his life's history, the founding of Wesleyan University, and his finances.
The commencement orations given by 19th century Wesleyan students reflect their studies in classics and their interests in philosophy, literature, and politics.
The Commencement Orations Collection contains handwritten speeches written by graduating Wesleyan University students between the years of 1833 and 1855.
COPUS, the Coalition of Private University Students, was a financial aid advocacy group that was formed in the mid 1970s when a coalition of college students across the country joined together to address financial aid issues.
This collection contains documents that are related to or from the group COPUS either nationally or on the Wesleyan campus. It includes statistics and information on Wesleyan's financial aid policies and other policies, and information on COPUS's involvement in Washington, D.C. and lobbying for change in the 1980s budget cuts. There are also documents such as notes and flyers from seminars held by COPUS on campus as well as Wesleyan and Middletown, Connecticut-area press on the group's activities.
The Conversational Club was formed in 1862 by the faculty of Wesleyan University to discuss topics of interest along with other Middletown residents.
The collection has four series: Minutes, Chronological Files, Addition of June 2008, and Addition of December 2009.
Wesleyan University went through two phases of coeducation, the first of which lasted from 1872 to 1909, and the second from 1970 to the present. In the first phase, women represented a small minority of the undergraduate community, and only forty-three women graduated in the period from 1872 and 1892. However, female admissions increased in 1898, which led to a corresponding decrease in male admissions. From 1900 onward, the decline in Wesleyan's overall admissions contributed to the movement against coeducation, as many feared that the college had become too "feminized." In 1909, the Board of Trustees decided to end coeducation at Wesleyan, which would remain an all-male institution until 1970.
The Coeducation Collection includes notes, letters, records, clippings, photographs, and meeting transcripts from Wesleyan University's first phase of coeducation (1872-1909). These materials date from 1871 to 1998. The entire collection has been digitized and individual documents and photographs may be accessed by clicking on the links.
Includes programs from the Head of the Connecticut Regatta, 1981-1986, and approximately forty 3 x 5 inch photographs and two 8 x 10 inch photographs.
The Cuvierian Society was organized in April 1836 as the Natural History Society, a primarily undergraduate organization at Wesleyan University for the study of natural science. Along with some faculty members, alumni, and local community members, the organization gathered for monthly meetings, during which members read essays and heard addresses from invited guests. The group changed its name to the Cuvierian Society in 1837. It continued to meet regularly until May 1846.
The Cuvierian Records consist of a single volume, which includes constitutions, by-laws, lists of members, and meeting minutes.
Joseph Cummings was the fifth president of Wesleyan University and its first alumnus to serve as president.
This collection is primarily comprised of Joseph Cummings' annual reports on Wesleyan University for the years 1857-1874, excepting the 1866-1867 school year. The collection also contains Cummings' correspondence, including with Julia Olin and W.O. Atwater (primarily regarding securing Atwater's employment), as well as Cummings' official acceptance of the position as president at Wesleyan University. Also included are several articles by Cummings, a petition against his resignation from the professorship, and his wife Deborah S. Cummings' correspondence.
The Continental Vocalists, led by William Dwight Franklin, was a touring Connecticut singing group popular in the mid-19th century.
William Dwight Franklin and the Continental Vocalists Collection contains published and unpublished books of music and lyrics. It also contains financial information about the Continental Vocalists' tours, and programs, a scrapbook, and two photographs.
Joseph S. Daltry was a music teacher and professor at Wesleyan University from 1918-1967.
Materials from Daltry's career teaching music at Wesleyan, and recordings of Simsbury Light Opera Company Performances from 1948-1950.
William Butler Davis (1871-1937) was a graduate of the Wesleyan University class of 1894 and a musician. He served as a choirmaster, organist, and music teacher in Connecticut during his career.
The William B. Davis Papers consist mostly sheet music hand-written by William Butler Davis, Wesleyan class of 1894 and composer of the Wesleyan alma mater, Come Raise the Song. Davis composed what he referred to as a light opera called The Girl and the Graduate. The piano, vocal, and orchestral sheet music is included in this collection, as well as some other pieces Davis composed. He was a member of the Glee Club while at Wesleyan and he kept a scrapbook of Glee Club programs and news clippings that mentioned himself or the Glee Club from 1892 to 1895.
Emilio Q. Daddario was a Connecticut congressman in the United States House of Representatives from 1959 to 1970 who was active in committees on scientific research and aerospace. He was a 1939 graduate of Wesleyan University and practiced law in Connecticut prior to running for office. He served as mayor of Middletown, Conn. from 1946 to 1948.
The Emilio Q. Daddario Congressional Papers cover his six terms in the United States House of Representatives as a Member of Congress from the First District, State of Connecticut. These include papers from his Congressional office as well as documents pertaining to the work of his Subcommittee on Science, Research and Development.
The Davison Art Center, housed in the 1839 Alsop House, comprises exhibition galleries, classrooms, offices, and the university’s collection of prints and photographs. The Art Center and much of its collection was the gift of George W. (Wesleyan class of 1892) and Harriet Baldwin Davison.
This collection includes catalogs to Davison Art Center exhibitions and a collection of exhibition announcements in the form of cards, postcards, and brochures.
Der Deutsche Verein, or The German Club, was a student organization at Wesleyan whose purpose was to promote the learning and application of the German language.
The collection includes two secretary's books, programs from theater performances, invitations, creative writing, and materials from the Golden Anniversary Celebration in 1960.
The Phi Rho Literary Society was founded in 1891 as a non-fraternity society with the aim of constituting a brotherhood and cultivating the art of public speaking. In 1903, the group became the Gamma Zeta chapter of the national fraternity of Delta Tau Delta. This fraternity existed until 1989.
This collection contains records from the Phi Rho literary society, also known as the Delta Tau Delta fraternity from 1903 to 1954. The collection includes minutes from annual meetings, budget and financial reports, newsletters, and architectural plans from the first half of the 20th century.
Annual reports of academic departments, programs and academic divisions of the university.
Kirsten Delegard, a member of the class of 1990, wrote her senior thesis for the CSS major on the experience of women Wesleyan graduates from the beginning of the second period of coeducation in 1968 onward. During her time at Wesleyan, she was one of only five women in her CSS class, and her experiences prompted her to write the history. She presently works as a public historian. After receiving her Masters and PhD from Duke University, she published the book "Battling Miss Bolsheviki: The Origins of Female Conservatism in the United States." She is a Scholar-in-Residence at Augsburg College.
The Kristin Delegard Research Notes collection consists of over 800 completed surveys received from women graduates from the classes of 1970-79, 1984, and 1990 and the computer printouts of data. The surveys were sent to about 2,000 women, and questions related to the respondents biographies and experiences relating to gender, sexism, feminism, and other issues during these women's time before, at, and after Wesleyan.
The Dean of the College is responsible for addressing campus issues related to students, including academics, activities, diversity, health, and on-campus residences.
The Dean of the College Records date from the tenures of Edgar Beckham (1973-1990) and Allen Green (1994-1997).
Reverend Holden Dwight (August 28, 1810-November 24, 1846), Wesleyan University class of 1835, taught at the College of Louisiana and the Norwalk Seminary. Dwight also worked for the Methodist Church in Louisiana and Mississippi, and as principal of the Baldwin Institute in Berea, Ohio. Dwight also unsuccessfully opened private schools in Columbus, Georgia; New Orleans, Louisiana; and Clinton, Mississippi.
The volume is a 135-page, handwritten diary kept by Dwight from August 18, 1837 to November 18, 1843. Diary entries range from a short paragraph to upwards of six pages. The main topics of Dwight's diary are his troubles finding employment in the Methodist religion, his self-afflicted inadequacies of his faith, as well as important issues of his time, which he contemplates. This diary encompasses many areas of the U.S., though most distinctively Georgia, Louisiana, and Ohio. Dwight mainly writes about his family, especially Catherine (sister) and Almena (his wife), but he also focuses on a few other persons including Dr. Willbur Fisk (first president of Wesleyan), a Professor Woolridge, and Judge Edward McGehee. Many organizations are also mentioned in Dwight's diary including Wesleyan University, Wilbraham Academy, College of Louisiana, and Norwalk Seminary. Dwight also visited the Senate and House of Representatives Chambers in session and noted many important figures of his day. Dwight also describes a trip home to Southbridge, Massachusetts in which he details the temperance movement's consequences upon the town. Dwight also states that he is against the abolitionist movement and against the national government's interference with the economy.
The fraternity Esse Quam Videri (EQV) was formed at Wesleyan in 1959 from the Phi Gamma chapter of Alpha Chi Rho (AXP). It was created in response to perceived discriminatory practices by the national AXP organization. EQV existed until 1967, when a house fire appeared to be a major factor in the demise of the group.
 The collection contains a history of the origins, middle years, and end of EQV, biographies of some members, and a directory of AXP and EQV members, classes of 1957-1970. It also contains account books, newsletters, lists of members, correspondence, and three group photographs.
Mark Estren, Wesleyan class of 1968, served several positions at the WESU radio station of Wesleyan University during the 1960s, including as General Director from 1965 to 1967.
The Mark Estren Papers collection contains Estren's papers from WESU, covering a date range of 1961 to 1968. The bulk of the collection consists of program guides which were printed every two weeks (excepting school breaks). There are also various news items and press releases, including chronicles of several on-air marathons by WESU deejay Jeffrey Taylor.
Wesleyan University exams reflect the changing curriculum between 1868 and 1970. The nineteenth century Wesleyan curriculum allowed students to major in general areas of knowledge, while the twentieth century curriculum saw the rise of numerous departments. The use of entrance examinations, a standard in the 1800s, were eliminated.
This collection comprises some 800 examinations given at Wesleyan from 1868 to 1970. Of these, close to 300 are from the 19th century. The 1960s are relatively poorly represented, with only 38 items. About 480 examinations are printed, 44 are manuscript and the remainder are either typed or mimeographed. Examinations dated after 1930 are almost exclusively comprehensive examinations, while earlier examinations include entrance examinations, mid-term and final examinations, and competitive examinations for named prizes awarded for academic excellence.
The Financial Planning Committee (FPC), a faculty-student body created under faculty by-laws, was formed in about 1968. It was composed of 6 faculty members, 4 undergraduate students, and 4 ex-officio administrators. The role of the group was to evaluate administrative proposals related to budgets and allocations, and provide suggestions and recommendations.
The materials in the Financial Planning Committee Records date from 1972 to 1975, and include evaluations of departmental or program proposals, faculty compensation concerns, and student expense issues. The main item of business for the FPC during this period was Wesleyan's growing deficit, and recommendations to address budgetary concerns.
This collection of printed ephemera and subject files about fine presses has been accumulated by Olin Library throughout the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
The collection, which is arranged by press name or printer’s name, comprises ephemeral items produced by each press.
Willbur Fisk (1792-1839) was a Methodist minister and the first president of Wesleyan University.
The Willbur Fisk Papers consist of two large series, Correspondence and Papers. The Papers feature items related to Wesleyan University, including his acquisition of scientific equipment. They also contain Fisk's own writings and sermons, on topics ranging from abolitionism to Methodist issues. A subset of the Papers are items written by or belonging to Ruth Peck Fisk, the wife of Willbur Fisk.
The Wesleyan football team has been in existence since 1883.
The Football Programs Collection contains programs for Wesleyan home and away games from 1891 through 2005. The collection is not complete for all years.
The Wesleyan Glee Club formed in 1846 and frequently traveled and performed from the mid-19th century through the mid-20th century. The Glee Club, along with the Chapel Choir and Concert Choir, performed at the annual Christmas Candlelight Concerts beginning in 1930.
The collection is comprised of Glee Club concert programs and Christmas Candlelight Concert programs.
In 1969, Peter Budryk opened the Great Hollow Wilderness School (GHWS) to provide disadvantaged children and teenagers with a wilderness experience. In 1985, the GHWS offered a Wesleyan Orientation in the Wilderness (WOW) program for incoming freshmen at Wesleyan University.
The Great Hollow Wilderness School/WOW Collection includes files with information about both programs, and objects given to participants, such as water bottles, t-shirts, and hats.
Karl Pomeroy Harrington (1861-1953) was an alumnus of Wesleyan University and a professor of Latin at Wesleyan from 1905-1929. His father, Calvin Sears Harrington, was also a professor of Latin at Wesleyan.
The Karl Pomeroy Harrington Papers include correspondence, writings, studies in Latin, diaries, scrapbooks, and music programs. Topics in the correspondence include faculty and administrative issues at Wesleyan, Harrington's publications, and his family. Other topics include Harrington's interests in Latin poetry, Wesleyan history, Middletown history, railroads, and the Methodist Episcopal Church.
Samuel Proal Hatfield was a non-graduate of Wesleyan in the class of 1862. He enlisted as private, 4th Conn. Infantry in 1861. He then served as First Lieutenant, 1st Conn. Heavy Artillery from 1862-64, and later served as major of the same.
This photograph album of the 4th Connecticut Volunteers, Company G (later renamed the 1st Connecticut Heavy Artillery) is an informative collection of well-known and historically significant photographs, maps and drawings of battles, forts, geographic locations, and people divided into eight sections. Locations photographed are primarily in Virginia, including Yorktown, Fredericksburg, Petersburg, Broadway Landing, the Peninsular Campaign, and the Bermuda Hundred area. There are also photographs from Fort Fisher, North Carolina.
Bertha Drew Hartzell was born on July 10, 1876 in Newton, Massachusetts and died in 1950. She graduated from Radcliffe College in 1898. She then traveled and lived for several years in Europe, especially Berlin. During her time there, she befriended a 13 year-old piano player, future famous concert pianist Artur Rubinstein. Upon returning to the United States, Bertha began graduate study at Radcliffe and later taught at Brookline High School. In 1904, Bertha Drew married Rev. Dr. Morton Hartzell and in 1906 they had a child, Karl, in Chicago. Dr. Hartzell died in California in 1916, and Bertha worked as a librarian to support herself and young Karl, who graduated from Wesleyan University in 1927. Bertha was also active in a number of church, music, and library organizations.
The Bertha Drew Hartzell Papers consist primarily of diaries, which she kept most of her life. Included are her travel journals, which record her journeys through Europe, and brief accounts of her daily activities from 1897 to 1950. The collection also includes clippings about the life of Artur Rubinstein, letters between Rubinstein and members of Bertha's family, photos, and other memoranda. One diary was kept by husband, Morton, and two others were apparently kept by Bertha's father, Charles Drew, during the U.S. Civil War.
Henry Curtis Herge (1907-2003) was the Commanding Officer of the Navy College Training Program at Wesleyan University, known as the V-12.
Materials include items specifically related to Wesleyan's V-12 program as well as writings, research, and published works related to naval wartime training, the Navy V-12 program, naval curricula information, and higher education during wartime in general.
The Hewlett Fellows were students at Wesleyan University who investigated and documented the history of racial diversity on campus.
The Hewlett Diversity Archive contains documents, photographs, textiles, audio recordings, and transcriptions related to the history of diversity and students of color at Wesleyan University.
Born in Atchison, Kansas, Ray P. Holland was interested in the outdoors beginning in his youth. He became a noted sportsman and writer, was dedicated to the management of wildlife and, as a United States Game Warden during World War I, became a key figure in the Supreme Court case of Missouri v. Holland, decided in 1920, a landmark case in constitutional and conservation law. Active in conservation groups such as the American Game Protective Association and the International Association of Game, Fish and Conservation Commissioners, Holland was editor of the magazine Field & Stream during its heyday in the 1920s and 1930s.
The bulk of the collection contains manuscripts, field diaries, publications, reports, and silent films related to wildlife conservation and game protection in the United States, from 1903-1970. It also contains a small amount of diaries, scrapbooks, correspondence and personal family items spanning 1872-1970.
Vivienne Mader (1901-1972), who received the name Huapala from native Hawaiian dancers, was an authority on dance and music of Hawaii. She was the first person to perform the hula on the concert stage.
The collection consists primarily of recordings of Hawaiian songs and dance notations by Huapala used to teach the hula. There are several books and some printed material on Hawaiian history and culture, along with several tapas.
William John James (1860-1941) was College Librarian from 1891 to 1929 and Assistant Treasurer of Wesleyan from 1908 to 1929.
The William John James Trustee and Financial Records concern financial matters brought before the Board of Trustees. Notable subject groupings for these dates include Buildings and Grounds and the Carnegie Foundation accreditations. These records are not a complete collection of Trustee business, but complement other Trustees' holdings in the Wesleyan University Archives.
John Johnston was a professor of natural sciences at Wesleyan University, and twice served as its acting president.
The John Johnston Papers include correspondence, biographical information, materials about the study of science at Wesleyan University, and a scrapbook of programs from 19th century Wesleyan events.
Robert Edmond Jones was born in 1887, and spent his career as a theater set designer. He also worked on the production of early Technicolor films as a color consultant. As a stage designer, Jones is best known for his simplified sets that complemented the action of a production and his dramatic use of color in costuming and lighting.
Contains correspondence, manuscript writings, drawings and design materials, photographs, and printed materials. The papers document Jones's work in theater as a set designer in the United States during the early twentieth century and his involvement in motion picture-making during the 1930s.
 Harriet Stewart Judd, teacher at Albion Seminary and Rockford Female College, was born in 1822 in Lockport, New York. She married Orange Judd, a Wesleyan University graduate and publisher, and they had four sons with whom she traveled across much of the United States and Europe.
The Harriet Stewart Judd Travel diary is a 176 page manuscript kept by Harriet Judd from October 30, 1872 through December 25, 1873. The entries range from a few sentences to upwards of eight pages. Judd titles her diary, Notes of Travel – No. 5, which suggests there are more diaries of this nature that have been produced, but their locations are unknown. The diary begins abruptly with Harriet Judd and her family traveling near Rome, Italy, on October 30, 1872. What follows are Judd's recollections of the destinations to which she and her family traveled including Naples, Pompeii, Paris, London, and Liverpool. After about forty pages, her first journey ends on November 18, 1872, but the journal continues with another tale of travels on the following page. During this trip, from February 15, 1873 to April 16, 1873, Harriet and her family traveled from their home of Flushing, New York to Washington D.C., then to Richmond, Virginia; Charlotte, North Carolina; Savannah, Georgia; and St. James, Jacksonville, and St. Augustine, Florida. An interesting detour occurred when Harriet met a Mr. Coe, a Wesleyan graduate, who traveled with them to see the super phosphate mines found ten miles from Charleston. This section of the diary is only thirty pages long, but still describes much of the early American landscape and attractions. The last section of the diary is 94 pages and contains a record of another trip across Europe. This section begins on August 9, 1873, when the family arrived in Ireland and began to travel across England. After a few entries, Harriet decided to take a break from the diary and did not write again until November 27, 1873 when the family was leaving Geneva for Italy. In Italy they explored the regions and cities of Piedmont, Genoa, Pisa, and Naples finding many exciting attractions, which Harriet describes in great detail. While in Genoa, the family visited the Genoa hospital for the poor where they were amazed by the orphans who spent their days making furniture. The diary ends on December 25, 1873, when Harriet attended Christmas mass and thanked God for all that he had given her. Throughout her travels, Judd visited many of the tourist attractions and described the art and architecture of these cities' cultures, as well as the hotels and landscape of Europe and America. Harriet was also a loyal Methodist and attended sermons on Sundays whenever possible during her travels. Harriet also described the many forms of transportation available while traveling in Europe and America, as well as her experiences shopping for luxury goods. Harriet's journal frequently mentions her husband's illnesses and a few times mentions some treatments for it.
Louise W. Knight completed an undergraduate history thesis at Wesleyan in 1972 entitled "The 'Quails': The History of Wesleyan University's First Period of Coeducation, 1872-1912." An academic pioneer in her own right (Wesleyan had only very recently again become coeducational when Knight attended) the topic likely had particular resonance for her. After graduating from Wesleyan, Knight has had a successful career as an independent scholar, publishing two well-received biographies of the mid-19th century activist Jane Addams.
The Louise Wilby Knight Papers consist of questionnaires completed by female members of classes during Wesleyan's first period of coeducation (1872-1913) and research notes used to write her senior thesis in 1972.
David Knapp (1926- ) was a student at Wesleyan University, class of 1949. He worked for the Boy Scouts of America and then later as a salesman for educational publishing companies. In the 1980s, he revealed that he was gay and was dismissed by the Boy Scouts in 1993.
The David Knapp papers (1946-1949) include documentation of pledging practices and 14 letters addressed to members of his family at home. In these letters, he is unusually candid and often thoughtful about various aspects of life at Wesleyan, including sex, drinking, and academics, as well as class, race, and religious relations. Knapp also gives unique insight into fraternity life in the period, as he was a member of Beta Theta Pi.
Gale Lackey was a member of Wesleyan University's senior athletics department from 1978 to 2015. She served as the senior woman administrator in athletics and an associate athletics director, as well as an adjunct professor of physical education and an affiliated professor in women's studies (now FGSS). She coached the women's lacrosse and field hockey teams from 1978 to 1985, at which point she took over as the coach of women's volleyball. Lackey has the distinction of coaching Wesleyan women's teams to Little Three championships in three different sports (volleyball, field hockey and lacrosse). In 2001, she was named New England Small College Athletic Conference (NESCAC) Coach of the Year.
The Gale Lackey Papers include materials related to Wesleyan women's athletics teams, particularly the volleyball team. Materials are predominantly audiovisual and photographic, supplemented with personal notes, pamphlets, manuals and photocopies of published articles. The collection is unprocessed.
Howard Fifield Legg (1881-1973), Wesleyan class of 1904, spent his career as a pastor and later a professor.
The Howard Legg Letters are about life on the Wesleyan University campus while Legg was a student between 1900 and 1904. Topics include sports, especially track and football; his membership in Delta Kappa Epsilon (DKE); and his many classes and activities.
 Philip Levy (1909-1970), was a government official in several capacities, serving on the legal staff of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and as counsel to Senator Robert F. Wagner, and practiced private law during a career that spanned 1934-1970. He was directly involved with the development of national labor policy in the United States in the 1930s and 1940s, and maintained a continued interest in labor policy throughout his long career.
The collection includes official documents (hearings, reports, legal briefs, orders, and rulings), pamphlets, articles, clippings, and notations, and documents national labor policy in the United States from 1922-1970. Materials cover the United States Department of Labor, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), National Industrial Relations Act of 1934, the Taft-Hartley Act, and Labor Cases in lower federal courts and the Supreme Court. There is little correspondence or other manuscript material in the collection.
Papers of mathematician, novelist, musician, publisher, and social critic Roy Lisker. Lisker publishes Ferment magazine and is the proprietor of the Ferment Press.
James Oliver Longstreet was born November 16, 1833. He received a bachelor's degree from Wesleyan in 1857. As a student at Wesleyan, he was a member of the Mystical Seven secret society and the Missionary Lyceum. After graduating from Wesleyan, Longstreet worked as both a teacher and a preacher until his death in 1861.
James Oliver Longstreet's personal diary from the year 1856 covers the second semester of his junior year at Wesleyan, as well as the first semester of his senior year. Many events are recorded in the diary, including the 1856 presidential election and the founding of the Middletown chapter of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. Longstreet also discusses his work as a teacher in North Guilford, Connecticut and North Branford, Connecticut.
Long Lane School in Middletown, Conn., opened in 1869 as the Connecticut Industrial School for Girls. In 1921, it became a juvenile detention center for girls, and in 1973, the detention center also admitted boys. In 2000, Wesleyan University bought the 160 acre property, and in 2003, the school closed.
The Long Lane Photographs Collection includes copies of historical photographs (the originals are held in the Connecticut State Library), photographs of Long Lane buildings, and digital photographs of the interiors of buildings prior to demolition. Wesleyan University commissioned Nancy Ottmann Albert to take the photographs.
Jerome H. Long served as an Associate Professor of Religion at Wesleyan University from 1971 to 1997. Born in 1931 in Little Rock, Arkansas, he earned a doctorate in the History of Religions from the University of Chicago Divinity School in 1973, and completed his doctoral dissertation on the Mbuti Pygmies of Zaire and the Bushmen of southern Africa. While at Wesleyan, he helped found the Center for African American Studies (CAAS) and acted as its director from 1979 to 1982. His research focuses on African and African American myth, religion, and ritual, and on the experiences of African American soldiers stationed in Europe in World War II.
The collection involves research on African American soldiers who were court martialed, found guilty, and executed while they served in the U.S. Army in World War II. Sources include court martial documents, such as transcripts and testimonies, in addition to Long's personal research materials.
Following graduation from New York University Law School in 1967, Roy Lucas published a landmark article, "Federal Constitutional Limitations on the Enforcement and Administration of State Abortion Statutes," in the North Carolina Law Review. Soon his interest in student rights and other civil liberties issues were overwhelmed as abortion litigation came to him in ever-growing volume. In 1969 and 1970 he helped found, with Morris Dees, the James Madison Constitutional Law Institute with offices in New York City and Montgomery, Alabama.
This collection documents state and federal abortion laws and court cases in the United States, spanning 1967-1973. It contains state and federal abortion litigation case files, documents, and correspondence; materials of the James Madison Institute; research files on aspects of abortion law, including studies of the Constitution and state laws on rights of the fetus; and publications regarding abortion and abortion laws including newspaper clippings about court cases.
William Phoebus Lyon (1813-1884), was the founder and senior principal of the Irving Institute, a private boarding school for boys in Tarrytown, New York. On August 5, 1840, the honorary degree of A.M. was conferred upon him by Wesleyan University. In the summer of 1841, Lyon traveled to Middletown in order to observe the final examinations of the Wesleyan student body.
 The William P. Lyon Collection consists of a photocopied journal, a partial transcript of the journal, two letters, and some biographical information. The manuscript diary is titled Journal of a Trip to Middletown, Conn., Summer 1841, kept by William P. Lyon, as he surveyed the examinations at Wesleyan University. The diary is 47 pages in length, with a total of 5 entries ranging from June 29, 1841 to July 3, 1841. The diary begins as Lyon and his family left their home in Tarrytown towards New York City. The journal then chronicles Lyon's departure from his family as he headed towards Middletown, Connecticut and his final destination of Wesleyan University. Once reaching the school Lyon became quickly adapted to the Wesleyan campus, meeting much of the faculty and student body. The journal details Lyon's review of the Wesleyan final exams, in which he noted how well each student performed in his tests. The journal ends as Lyon traveled back to New York and expressed his disappointment of the Wesleyan student body and educational system. Throughout the journal, and especially at the end of the journal, Lyon gives extremely detailed notes of many of the Wesleyan students, professors, and the professors' ladies. In addition to the journal, this collection also contains a partial transcript; two letters, both addressed to Professor Jacob F. Huber; and a brief biography.
David Park McAllester was professor of Anthropology and Music at Wesleyan University from 1947 to 1986. He studied and wrote about the rites and ceremonies of the Navajo Indians and was a co-founder of the Society for Ethnomusicology.
This collection contains drafts of published and unpublished writings, extensive correspondence, field notes and one nineteenth century family photograph album.
Wesleyan-related audio and video recordings in multiple formats.
William E. Mead was an alumnus of Wesleyan University and served as professor at the school, in addition to teaching and administration at high schools. His wife, Kate Mead Hurd, was a physician and author. The Meads travelled extensively in Europe and other parts of the world.
The William E. Mead papers include diaries recording his life and travels, correspondence and other materials removed from the diaries, and journals and a photograph album of a trip to Iceland in 1891.
Fred B. Millett (1890-1976) was a professor of English and director of the Honors College at Wesleyan University.
The Fred Millet World War II Letters from Students were sent from both Wesleyan and non-Wesleyan students involved in the war effort. Although the collection does not contain Millett's responses, the letters reveal much about the lives of the young men during the war.
Since 1972, student papers written on historical Middletown-area topics have been donated to Special Collections & Archives.
The Student Papers About Middletown Collection features graduate and undergraduate papers about the history of Middletown, Connecticut and the surrounding area. Topics include politics, labor, commerce, ethnic and racial groups, women's history, and leisure.
During the Vietnam War, especially in the late 1960s and early 1970s, some Wesleyan University students and faculty protested military recruiters visiting the school. In response to the controversy, Wesleyan developed a policy about military recruitment. This issue subsided with the end of the Vietnam War and the draft.
The Military on Campus Collection contains correspondence, memos, clippings, and other materials related to the controversy on military recruitment at Wesleyan University from 1968 to 1973. Major correspondents are Philip Rockwell and Paul Reynolds.
The Middletown Scientific Association was founded on March 17, 1871 by Wesleyan University faculty and residents of Middletown, Connecticut. Its purpose was to encourage scientific investigation and curiosity among members and to receive papers from members and other scientists regarding popular topics in all fields of science, history of science, and education of science.
The Middletown Scientific Association Records include minutes, reports, a scrapbook, administrative records, and other historical materials which document the organization's operations from 1871 until it disbanded in 1968.
The Middletown Manuscripts Collection is an intentionally created collection of disparate manuscripts related to the history of Middletown, Connecticut.
The majority of this collection is 18th- and 19th-century documents from around the Middletown, Connecticut area, with some documents from the 17th- and 20th-centuries.
The Missionary Lyceum at Wesleyan University existed from 1834 until approximately 1878. The purpose of the Lyceum was to promote a missionary zeal among its members by way of debates, addresses, collection of artifacts and literature from foreign missions, and the exchange of correspondence with various missionaries around the world
The Missionary Lyceum Records include correspondence, financial records, minutes, reports, and membership rosters.
In the spring of 1974, Professor Stephen Dyson of the Wesleyan University Classics Department took his Introduction to Archaeology Class on a preliminary excavation in Middlefield, Connecticut. This was a test to see if there was potential for an archaeology class based on fieldwork. Since the success at the first excavation, Wesleyan has continued to take its students on excavations within Middlesex County, Connecticut.
The Middlesex County Archaeological Digs and Course Records were compiled by Stephen Dyson documenting his archaeology labs conducted in the field and courses focusing on local sites. It includes student essays, student field sheets, student lab inventories, grant proposals, Connecticut Historical Commission Inventory sheets for sites in the Middlesex area, and photos of mid-19th century topographic and housing maps of Middletown, Middlefield, and Cromwell.
Lynn Smith Miller entered Wesleyan in the Fall of 1910 and graduated with the Class of 1914. While at Wesleyan, Miller was a member of Delta Upsilon (the Omega Phi chapter at Wesleyan). He graduated with a B.A. and died in 1962.
 The collection consists of a scrapbook kept by Miller that covers the years 1910-1914, two diaries, anniversary medals, and a supplemental binder put together by Miller's son, John W. Miller, Class of 1953.
The Monday Club was founded in 1892 as a social and intellectual group for women in the Wesleyan University community. Members continued to meet for presentations and performances until the mid-1990s.
The Monday Club Records include minutes and other documents of club business and events. Many of the materials record events and event planning, as well as texts of papers given at meetings and scripts for several plays. The Club is best documented between the 1930s and 1970s, with less information about the years before and after.
The music program at Wesleyan University dates back to the early days of the institution, when informal singing groups performed for special occasions. As the program expanded and became more formalized, courses were offered, and in 1929 the Music Department was established. Performance groups came to include the Glee Club, the Chapel Choir, the Choral Society, the Jibers, the Cardinals, the Wesleyan Band, and a number of instrumental ensembles. During the 1950s, associate professor David McAllester introduced world music courses into the curriculum, and in 1966 the department established a doctoral program in ethnomusicology. Visiting artists from various regions around the world, including Africa, India, Indonesia, Japan, and Korea, have performed at the university.
Series 3, Concert Programs, contains programs for musical performances held at Wesleyan University. Performers include Wesleyan and non-Wesleyan musicians. A small group of organ concerts is listed first, followed by concerts of all types in chronological order. This collection is incomplete. For the guide to the complete Music Department Records, please see http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/mu1000-182.html.
The music program at Wesleyan University dates back to the early days of the institution, when informal singing groups performed for special occasions. As the program expanded and became more formalized, courses were offered, and in 1929 the Music Department was established. Performance groups came to include the Glee Club, the Chapel Choir, the Choral Society, the Jibers, the Cardinals, the Wesleyan Band, and a number of instrumental ensembles. During the 1950s, associate professor David McAllester introduced world music courses into the curriculum, and in 1966 the department established a doctoral program in ethnomusicology. Visiting artists from various regions around the world, including Africa, India, Indonesia, Japan, and Korea, have performed at the university.
The collection includes proposals, meeting minutes, memoranda, correspondence, and reports relating to the establishment of the ethnomusicology doctoral program. It also contains photographs and printed material relating to music performances by faculty, student groups, and visiting world music artists, including concert programs. Materials in the Concert Correspondence Files, Events Scrapbooks, and Programs and Records series have not been processed.
Social Credit has been an economic theory, a social philosophy, an ideology, and a political party in England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States since it was first advanced in 1920 by Major C. H. Douglas. He believed finance capitalism deprived individuals of sufficient purchasing power to buy otherwise available products. To overcome this Douglas proposed offering to every citizen dividend payments based on the community's real wealth. As monetary reform and as social theory Social Credit attracted intellectual support in England and the United States especially during the 1930s. Gorham Munson (Wesleyan class of 1917) was the most eloquent and durable Social Credit leader in the United States. In 1932, he became American correspondent for The New English Weekly, defended Social Credit in The Nation and helped form a key Social Credit organization, the New Economics Group of New York. In 1933 he initiated a vital Social Credit journal of the arts and public affairs, New Democracy, and was its chief editor during its three-year life.
The papers of Gorham Munson (1896-1969) deal almost wholly with his support of Social Credit and are confined to the years 1932 to 1945. There is almost no information about his career as a literary critic, book editor, and teacher of writing. The material includes articles, books, correspondence, pamphlets, and scrapbooks. The collection grew out of Munson's interconnected roles as organizer, publicist, fund-raiser, editor, promoter, lobbyist, propagandist, theorist, leader, and diplomat for a succession of Social Credit organizations from 1932 to 1945. Published materials provide the best documentation of the development of the theory of Social Credit in England, Canada, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand. Major correspondents include Ezra Pound, his father Homer Pound, James Laughlin IV, William Carlos Williams, Major C. H. Douglas, John Hargrave, Philip Mairet, Stanley Mott, Lilly Bierne, Herbert Bruce Brougham, Allan R. Brown, Howard L. Buck, A. M. Edwards, Paul Hampden, Laurence Morris, W. A. Nyland, A. H. Spencer, Elliott Taylor, and Mrs. E. Sohier Welch. Congressional correspondents include Charles G. Binderup, Fred L. Crawford, T. Alan Goldsborough and Jerry F. Voorhis. There are also files on the New English Weekly and The Beacon of Winnipeg, which incorporated New Democracy in 1937-1939.
The Wesleyan Museum was created in 1871 to supplement the science curriculum at Wesleyan University. Its collections of natural history materials as well as ethnographic artifacts made it popular with students and faculty in the late 19th century. It became less important to the university as new methods of studying supplanted the museum, and it was closed in 1957.
The Wesleyan Museum Records contains annual reports, correspondence, invoices, inventories, catalogues, accession books, photos, and other materials related to the operations and collections of the museum.
Wesleyan University hosted both V-5 and V-12 Naval Training Units on its campus during World War II.
The Navy V-5 and V-12 Training Units Collection features information about both naval training units, including information about their curricula, as well as publications used in the courses.
Wesleyan University was founded in 1831 in Middletown, Conn.
The Nineteenth Century Administrative Records Collection consists of the original charter for Wesleyan University, early Trustee, University Secretary, and faculty records, and financial records related to donors, students, and the university itself. The financial items consist of correspondence, statements, accounts, bills, receipts, inventories, tuition, and housing information. There is also information about student admittance, attendance, absences, and demerits.
Stephen Henry Olin, Wesleyan class of 1866, was a lawyer and longtime trustee of Wesleyan University.
The Stephen Henry Olin Regimental Scrapbook consists of two sections. The first begins with a hand-painted title page and dedication page, and then continues with about 15 pages of newspaper clippings detailing the travels of the 7th Regiment of the New York Militia in 1860. The second section begins after a number of blank pages and consists of humorous newspaper clippings including puns and moral stories. In the middle of the second section are two more hand-painted pages, these dedicated to the New York Fire Department.
The Parents' Information Collections includes handbooks and other information sent to parents of incoming and transfer students at Wesleyan University.
Wesleyan held an annual conference featuring scholars from around the country discussing some of the day's most controversial and important topics, including labor, crime, race, marriage, and foreign policy. The tradition of Wesleyan Parleys began in 1924 and lasted until about the early 1960s.
The Wesleyan Parleys Collection consists of seventeen scrapbooks, each devoted to a particular year's parley, and some additional material including programs and clippings. The scrapbooks include correspondence, financial information, publicity, photographs, and sometimes the text of speeches made at the parleys. Some years are not represented in the collection.
On February 24, 1845 a vote was passed by the Connecticut Alpha of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, establishing its ninth chapter at Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT.
The majority of the collection is from the mid twentieth century and pertains to some aspect of financial records. The rest of the materials include membership rosters, the organization and chapter procedures, and by-laws.
The Physiological Society of Wesleyan University was established in 1839. It was based on the teachings of Sylvester Graham, who advocated a vegetarian diet and temperate lifestyle. The Society appears to have disbanded in April 1844.
This book contains the records the Physiological Society of Wesleyan University, and includes two constitutions, a members list, and meeting minutes.
The Honors College, housed in Russell House, was a program for distinguished students in the Wesleyan community. In addition to informal lectures by young men and women, the Honors College hosted a series of music concerts and poetry readings by distinguished, young American poets. The poetry series at the Honors College also came to include an opportunity for Wesleyan students to share their own work for an audience. The Connecticut Poetry Circuit is a non-profit organization that provides three poetry reading programs for colleges and some preparatory schools. The intention of the circuit was to bring established yet unpublished poets to colleges and universities, as well as a competition among students throughout Connecticut to travel the circuit as student poets. The winners of the competition are chosen by a selection committee to tour the state reading their poetry. The connection between the Connecticut Poetry Circuit and Wesleyan University is that Jean Maynard, the assistant director of the Honors College, was the director of the Connecticut Poetry Circuit.
The collection contains material about the poetry at the Honors College; information on the student poets on the Connecticut Poetry Circuit; detailed information about the poets who read at the Honors College and toured on the circuit; and administrative information, mostly from the Connecticut Poetry Circuit, including correspondence, requests from poets to be included in the tour, financial information, information about the selection committee, and some history of the circuit.
Recordings made by Stephen B. Porter '87 of student music performed on the Wesleyan campus. Some recordings made with the assistance of Dana E. Walcott '86, who provided assistance with documentation of the collection.
The collection consists of 79 audiocassettes.
The Press Archives began at Wesleyan University in 1952, but after three years the project lapsed. It was re-started around 1958 by professor Sigmund Neumann. He intended the Press Archives to be a resource for students and faculty in the then-new Public Affairs Center.
The Press Archives Records includes financial records, correspondence, annual reports, and 1959 and 1962 indexes of the contents of the Press Archives. There are also notes about the eventual disposition of the contents of the Press Archives.
Wesleyan University was founded in 1831 in Middletown, Connecticut.
The Wesleyan Programs collection contains a variety of programs from 19th and 20th century Wesleyan events, including exhibitions by members of various classes and convocation, matriculation, and graduation ceremonies.
The Psi Upsilon records consist of materials related to Xi Chapter at Wesleyan University and include constitutions, by-laws, minutes, programs, correspondence, invitations, clippings, publications, annals and chronicles, photographs, architectural drawings, and scrapbooks.
The Public Relations Office, which was later called Office of Public Information and Publications, was responsible for communicating news and achievements at Wesleyan University to the local, state, and national media. This office was later folded into the University Relations department.
This collection of Public Information Press Releases is comprised of the press releases Wesleyan University sent out between 1961 and 1978. The press releases reported on the achievements of students and faculty, Wesleyan sports teams, and events on campus.
The Queer Periodicals Collection contains over 490 different gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender periodicals published between 1966 and 1998. The bulk consists of English-language titles from the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, though examples from the European continent, Russia, and Israel are also present. The extent of each title may vary from a single issue to several complete (or near-complete) volumes. The collection is arranged into three separate series by size, and alphabetically by title thereunder
Daniel Curtis Rand, a Charleston, New Hampshire native, attended Wesleyan University from 1839 to 1843, when he graduated. He later ran powder mills in Connecticut and New York.
The Daniel C. Rand Journal has accounts of his expenses and savings as a Wesleyan University student from 1839 to 1843. The journal also includes written accounts of business conducted at the Rand family's powder mill in 1844 and 1845, and the minutes, constitution, and by-laws of the Union Eloquium's Society in Meriden, New Hampshire.
The collection contains primarily nineteenth century individual portrait photographs. A small portion of photographs are of identified individuals. When the photographer or sitter is known, the identification is noted in the listing. The images include daguerreotypes, ambrotypes, tintypes (also called ferrotypes), card images, and card images in an album. Most dates are approximate ones determined by internal evidence.
William North Rice (1845-1928) was a graduate and long-time faculty member and administrator at Wesleyan University. As a student, he was a member of Phi Nu Theta. He was known as a scientist, minister, and educational expert.
The William North Rice Papers contain diaries, correspondence, account books, teaching materials, writings, lectures, and sermons related to Rice's interests in Wesleyan University, science, religion, and education in general. Specific topics include coeducation at Wesleyan University, campus politics and activities, and issues related to students, faculty, and trustees. Rice's interests in geology, botany, mineralogy, crystallography, and zoology are represented, as is his interest in the relationship between science and religion.
The Rosa Physics Club was named for an Wesleyan alumnus, Edward B. Rosa, class of 1886. The purpose of the Rosa Club was to promote an interest in physics and its applications, and included student and faculty members.
The collection consists of three volumes of minutes of Rosa Club meetings. In addition to minutes, the volumes also include rosters, election information, budgetary information, and other administrative documents.
Alfred S. Roe served with Company A, Ninth New York Heavy Artillery, from January 1864 to June 1865. Roe was captured in the Battle of Monocacy, Maryland, July 9, 1864, and was imprisoned at Danville, Virginia, for nearly eight months. He then attended Wesleyan University, from which he graduated 1870.
This collection contains a first hand account of a Civil War soldier and prisoner. The manuscript narrative gives details of Alfred S. Roe's experience in the Army and in prison, his travels, fellow soldiers, officers, and their conversations. Included in box 2 are Alfred Roe's letters to his parents, brothers, sister, aunt and uncle, and dear friend. There is also correspondence to Alfred Roe's parents from fellow soldier H. Hill Wheeler when Alfred went missing and again when he (Wheeler) learns Alfred is a prisoner.
Phyllis Rose (born 1942) was a professor of English at Wesleyan University from 1969 until her retirement in 2005.
The collection consists of ten pieces of correspondence related to the Wesleyan English Department or other professional business.
 Marjorie Rice Daltry Rosenbaum (May 10, 1921-October 20, 2013) was a dedicated woman who sought to make the experience of public and private school education better. Her programs, including the major C.A.U.S.E. Program that started in 1967, created a cooperative framework for Wesleyan to interact and learn from the Middletown community. She was a life long Connecticut resident who both went to and taught in many of the public schools as an English, social studies, and choral music teacher and later became chief administrator of Wesleyan's Educational Studies Program from 1973-1985.
The Marjorie Rice Daltry Rosenbaum Papers contain both work and personal papers relating to her educational programs and life. The majority of the papers in the collection relate to C.A.U.S.E. and its corresponding programs, but there are documents that relate to other programs that she was involved with during her life. The work papers in the collection are made up of photos, newspaper articles and general press, meeting minutes, proposals, evaluations, and correspondence with principals or directors of certain schools and programs. The personal papers include personal correspondence, drawings, resumes and vitaes, and papers corresponding to specific individuals. The correspondence for the programs generally concerns how the program is fairing or requesting certain aid or resources. The personal correspondence ranges from the familial to more business oriented topics.
This collection concerns the planning and construction of Phase II of the Science Center, completed in 1970. The building is now known as the Exley Science Center.
The Science Center Planning materials include correspondence, memoranda, meeting minutes, plans, drawings and other items related to the design, planning, space allocation, HVAC system, and construction of the Science Center and Science Library. Smith Haines Lundberg & Waehler, the E&F Construction Company, and Dolores Miller and Associates. were major companies involved in this project. Chair of the Building Committee John Sease and University Librarian Wyman W. Parker are major correspondents in the collection.
Schattschneider was the author of numerous books and articles about American government and American political parties. Schattschneider was president of the American Political Science Association (1956-57), and spent the majority of his career (1930-71) teaching at Wesleyan University.
The E. E. Schattschneider Papers include correspondence, speeches and writings, student projects from Schattschneider's seminars on performing local community surveys, subject files of background material and notes for individual books as well as general subject files, family photographs, a documentary film written and presented by Schattschneider, and a collection of books annotated by Schattschneider.
Second Stage is an organization of students at Wesleyan University dedicated to producing theater and other performances. Founded in 1973, the mostly volunteer student group manages the administration, staging, finances, and selection of approximately thirty-five shows each academic year, usually staged in the '92 Patricelli Theater. Second Stage provides an opportunity for aspiring playwrights, directors, actors, and technicians to stage their very own productions. The Theater Department and Second Stage work closely together, sharing facilities and equipment.
The Second Stage Theater Records include administrative information about the student group, organized by each season and year. Information may include: staff lists; seasonal production lists; correspondence; clippings; financial information; production notes; show applications and responses; posters; and other administrative files. Some seasons have separate files for each production, and some seasons have sparse documentation.
Dr. H. Kenneth Shook was a 1954 graduate of the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program at Wesleyan University.
This manuscript in two parts is titled Memoirs of a College Gatekeeper, Set I and More Memoirs from a College Gatekeeper, Set II. Written by Dr. H. Kenneth Shook, it includes autobiographical stories, including a passage about Robert Frost's 1953 visit to Wesleyan University while Shook was a student in the Master of Arts in Teaching program.
Shanklin Laboratory at Wesleyan University was completed in 1928 and underwent major renovation from the mid-1960s through the mid-1970s.
The Shanklin Laboratory Renovation Records concern the Biology Department’s involvement with the proposed renovations of Shanklin Laboratory, occurring between 1967 and 1978. Materials included in this collection are planning correspondence (memoranda, letters, and personal notes), itemized work estimates, cost estimates and bills, blueprints, contracts, and floor plans (both formal and informal). Haines, Lundberg and Waehler were the major architects involved in this project. Science Center Director Ross Gortner, Facilities Planner Robert Wilson, Vice President of Business Affairs Donald Bruster, and Professors Vincent W. Cochrane, Earl Hanson, and Barry Keifer are the primary correspondents in the collection.
Mark Slobin is the Winslow-Kaplan Professor of Music at Wesleyan University.
The Mark Slobin Papers contain materials pertaining to his "American Cantorate" project, media coverage of Jewish ethnomusicology, as well as assorted personal papers. The collection consists of 14 Paige boxes and Holliger boxes, primarily containing correspondence and letters, newspaper clippings, interview responses, personal items, U-matic tape recordings, photographs, musical scores, and both published and unpublished writings of Slobin and others. This collection is unprocessed.
Willis Kimball Stetson, son of Daniel Kimball Stetson and Mary Weeks Sanborn Stetson, born 1858 and died 1942. After graduating from Wesleyan University, Class of 1881, he taught public school in Ansonia, CT then became the Assistant Librarian and Librarian at Wesleyan University from 1882 to 1887. Willis Kimball Stetson married Lillian Minor and had three children: John Minor Stetson (born 1887), George Albert Stetson (born 1889) and Mary Mead Stetson (born 1891). Margaret Buell Allen is the daughter of Frederick G. and Mary Mead Stetson Allen. There is no accompanying biographical information regarding the Minor family photographs or other Stetson family member photographs.
This collection contains a three generation history in photographs of the Minor and Stetson families from 1862-1948.
Jean Stafford (1915-1979) was a Pulitzer Prize winning writer of novels, short stories, non-fiction, and children's literature. She spent the 1964-1965 academic year as a resident fellow in the Center for Advanced Studies at Wesleyan University.
Contains proofs of A Mother in History (1966), a non-fiction book based on interviews with Marguerite Oswald, the mother of Lee Harvey Oswald, and Bad Characters, a book of short stories (1964).
Nathan Comfort Starr (1896-1981) was a graduate of Harvard and Oxford Universities. He taught and wrote extensively about the Arthurian legend and Arthurian literature.
The collection contains clippings, correspondence, manuscript and other print materials and ephemera relating to the subject of Arthurian scholarship. Many items were removed from books in the Nathan Comfort Starr Collection of Arthuriana (now held in the Wesleyan University's Special Collections & Archives), and can be cross-referenced with the book's title and call number.
In 1970, Sheila Tobias became associate provost at Wesleyan University. Her primary administrative focus was on helping Wesleyan make the transition to coeducation for a second time (the first period of coeducation was 1872-1909), which began in 1968. This included the hiring of women faculty and other key personnel. She also co-organized a New England-wide Higher Education Resource Service for women academic professionals, which later grew into the HERS Bryn Mawr Summer Institute for Women in Higher Education Administration. She taught American Studies 210, "Gender and Politics," "Men and Women in Wartime." In 1978, she left Wesleyan to become director of the Math Anxiety (training trainers/dissemination) Project, Washington School of Psychiatry.
The Sheila Tobias Women's Studies Files contain documentation related to feminism, gender issues, and women's studies. It consists of Series 1: Authors Files, which generally includes articles, journals, reprints, and other published materials arranged by author's last name; and Series 2: Subject Files, arranged topically.
Samuel Miller Tuthill (January 7, 1919-December 6, 2005) was a 1939 graduate of Wesleyan University.
The Samuel M. Tuthill Papers include Wesleyan related publications and documents, and a photograph album that features pictures of the 1936 Middletown Flood, the New England Hurricane of 1938, and the construction of the Arrigoni Bridge between Middletown and Portland, among other events.
Arthur T. Vanderbilt was born in Newark, New Jersey, in 1888. He was educated at Newark Public High School and graduated from Wesleyan University in 1910. While at Wesleyan he was a student leader and a member Delta Kappa Epsilon. He then attended Columbia Law School, earning an LL.B. in 1913. Vanderbilt practiced law privately from 1913 to 1947, largely representing fire insurance companies, corporations, and banks. During this period, Vanderbilt also taught law at New York University as full-time faculty, later becoming Dean of the Law School from 1943 to 1948. He also served on the Wesleyan University Board of Trustees from 1934 to 1957, and acted as President of the Board from 1946 to 1947. A leader throughout his life, he also served with the American Bar Association, and was preeminent in the movement to reform the administration of justice and chaired an advisory committee to create a uniform code of military justice. Vanderbilt became a New Jersey Circuit Court judge in November 1947, and was confirmed as Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court in December 1947. He served in this capacity until his death in 1957.
This collection contains correspondence, writings, personal, and professional papers relating to the long career of Arthur T. Vanderbilt, spanning 1902 to 1957. Types of materials include photographs, scrapbooks, clippings, reports, memos, teaching notes, correspondence, books and pamphlets, and manuscripts. Also included are files related to his planned biography of Lord Mansfield.
The Vertical Files Collection has been gathered the Wesleyan University Archives to provide general information about Wesleyan University topics.
The Vertical Files Collection is comprised of materials about Wesleyan University. The materials, which include clippings, memos, fliers, programs, correspondence, and photographs, form the basis of this reference collection. Within the Vertical Files, materials are organized into groups, and within these groups, the folders are arranged alphabetically.
Wesleyan University viewbooks are brochures or booklets featuring photographs and information about the university. They are most often intended for prospective students, but may also be designed to attract donors.
The Viewbooks Collection contains items related to Wesleyan University from 1875 through 2006. They frequently include photographs and statistics from the time period.
In 1927, The Voluntary Committee of Lawyers, Inc. was organized by a group of young New York lawyers who felt that the national prohibition law was both unjust and unenforceable. Its leaders were Joseph H. Choate, Jr., who served as chairman of the Executive Committee, and Harrison Tweed, Treasurer. The organization existed to organize like-minded associates, take opinion polls of lawyers across the country, issue bulletins and annual reports reciting arguments against the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution, and work closely with the Association Against the Prohibition Amendment. They stressed that a Repeal Amendment should provide for ratification by state convention and then proceeded to prepare and place before all state governors in February 1933 draft bills providing for election at large of all delegates. The alertness and prestige of the members of the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers contributed to the fact that most states enacted the model convention bill verbatim. When the Twenty-First Amendment was ratified on December 5, 1933, the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers disbanded.
The repeal papers of The Voluntary Committee of Lawyers, Inc. 1928-1944, were originally working files of Joseph Hodge Choate, Jr. (1876-1968) and of Harrison Tweed (1885-1969) when they were among the leaders of this single-purpose organization. The Choate materials are correspondence and publications. The Tweed records represent financial aspects of the organization, of which he was treasurer. These papers include the records of the financial transactions of the organization, all known publications, and a original correspondence.
Washington's Birthday was celebrated at Wesleyan University from about 1863 through the 1920s. At first a patriotic event, it eventually became more of a homecoming event for Wesleyan alumni. Grand banquets, toasts, and speeches were a frequent element during the weekend festivities, along with hotly contested cannon scraps between the freshmen and sophomore classes. The tradition phased out during the 1920s, and was briefly revitalized in 1941 by a group of New York alumni, complete with mock cannon scrap.
The Washington's Birthday Commemoration Programs consists primarily of the programs given out at Washington's Birthday ceremonies and banquets between 1863 and 1941. In addition, a few years include tickets to events, clippings about the event, and related memorabilia. The programs offer fine examples of design and printing styles from the period.
The Wesleyan Spirits are an all-male a capella vocal group at Wesleyan.
The Wesleyan Spirits Records include documentation of the group's activities and travels.
The Wesleyan Student Assembly (WSA) was formed in 1978. It is the legislative and deliberative student body at Wesleyan University.
The Wesleyan Student Assembly Records include minutes, subject files, memoranda, reports, publications, flyers, and other materials related to the student government of Wesleyan University. Topics include campus speakers and visitors, facilities, offices and buildings, courses, departments, and issues involving professors and curriculum. The Administrative Files series is not processed, but a general listing of its contents is included.
Wesleyan Clinic Escorts is a group that trains and organizes students to escort patients past anti-abortion protesters at women's clinics in Connecticut.
This collection contains a variety of materials generated by Wesleyan Clinic escorts between 1991 and 2006. This includes pamphlets, articles, and fact sheets about abortion, pro-choice periodicals and awareness-raising paraphernalia, as well as information specifically concerning Wesleyan Clinic Escorts, such as Escort sign-ups, training materials, attendance logs, and meeting minutes. The collection also contains a folder of anti-abortion pamphlets and articles.
WESU was founded in 1939 as a student radio station. From 1967 until 1990, it operated under the purview of the Wesleyan Broadcast Association, independent from Wesleyan University, broadcasting on the FM band at 88.1 megahertz. In 2003, Wesleyan University acquired the license to broadcast at 88.1 megahertz, and WESU became a subsidiary thereof.
The WESU Collection contains documents, correspondence, and notes related to the operations of the station from 1943 onwards.
During the 1980s, a Wesleyan faculty member was asked to deliver an address to the incoming freshman class each year. These addresses contained advice and wisdom about the students' upcoming lives at Wesleyan University. These addresses were transcribed and printed by Wesleyan.
These addresses were made to incoming students at the beginning of the academic year throughout the 1980s.
Moses Clark White (1819-1900) was a graduate of the Wesleyan University class of 1845. White worked as a preacher, a doctor and a missionary, and lived in Fuh Chau, China, from 1847-1853, returning to live in New Haven, Conn. and practice medicine.
The Moses Clark White Collection contains four items: Common Place book; a Bible by N. T. Matthew in Fuhchan colloquial; a bound volume of Copy of Manuscripts by Moses C. White, M.D., Pioneer Missionary, Relating to the Founding of Methodist Missions in Foochow, China; and unbound photocopy of the Copy of Manuscripts.
John Cecil Rushworth Whiteley (1904-1959) was a member of the Wesleyan Class of 1925. He was also the recipient of a Rhodes Scholarship and attended Waldham College in Oxford.
The collection consists of Wesleyan University course-related papers, notebooks, and theses, along with notes and notebooks related to his studies at Wadham College. There is a scrapbook of letters, clippings, and invitations documenting his Rhodes Scholarship. One of the items of interest is an invitation to a dance given by the Prince of Wales and Lady Astor for all the Rhodes scholars. A list of Rhodes Scholars for that year also appears in the scrapbook.
Beatrice Witkin (1917-1990) was an accomplished composer and one of the first women to produce electronic music compositions.
The materials in the Beatrice Witkin Papers range from her earliest musical compositions to her major works. Notes and secondary literature accompany many of the compositions, and all major works have complete scores.
During World War I, Wesleyan had a brief period when it adopted several programs to train students to become soldiers and officers. Wesleyan had a total of 1,169 men involved in the war effort, of whom 26 died. The majority of Wesleyan men were involved in the Army, S.A.T.C., and Navy.
After the war was over, the Wesleyan Alumni Council sent a form requesting military service records of students and alumni involved in the war. These forms were intended to be published as a permanent memorial to those who served. However no evidence that this book was ever produced has been found. The men who completed these forms filled out basic biographical information, information about their service in the war, and offered their opinions on such issues such as universal training and how their education at Wesleyan had benefitted them during the war.
The Women's Studies Program was created in 1980 and became a major in 1989. In 2006, the program was renamed Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
The Women's Studies Program Collection documents some of the curricular and structural changes made in the history of the Women's Studies Program (now Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies). The materials include a 1977 paper by Sheila Tobias on the history and future of women's studies in general; a 1980 proposal for a Women's Studies Program; a list of core courses in the Women's Studies Program for the year 1981-1982; and an extensive 2002 report created by a student forum about the nature and direction of Women's Studies at Wesleyan.
Henry Merritt Wriston (1889-1978) was a 1911 graduate of Wesleyan University and served as president of Lawrence College and Brown University. He was also active in United States foreign policy issues.
The Henry M. Wriston Collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, publications, reprints, and speeches. Topics include higher education, university administration, United States politics, and foreign relations. Many of the speeches were delivered at Brown University. The Addition of June 2008 includes materials digitized for a website project.
The Young Men's Republican Club was Wesleyan's first Republican political organization. It was founded on June 21, 1856, with the goal of aiding in the election of John C. Fremont to the presidency of the United States. A significant number of Wesleyan students were vocal supporters of the Republican Party in the early years, and much of their rhetoric centered on their opposition to slavery in Kansas.
The single volume of the Young Men's Republican Club of Wesleyan University Records consists of an account of the activities of the club in the first year of its existence, 1856. It includes the group's constitution and minutes of meetings.
The Center for the Arts (CFA) gallery was renamed the Ezra [Wesleyan class of 1947] and Cecile Zilkha Gallery in the fall of 1982 in honor of a gift from The Zilkha Foundation, Inc. The Gallery features contemporary art installations as well as faculty and student work.
This collection includes exhibition catalogs from the CFA and Zilkha Galleries. Also included are exhibition announcement cards, postcards, and mailings.
The Agallian Base Ball Club was the first formally organized baseball team at Wesleyan University. It was formed in the autumn of 1864 and played its first matches against other teams the following spring. Baseball had been played informally at Wesleyan back to at least 1860. Baseball letters were given (often at a considerably later date) to Wesleyan athletes in baseball beginning with the 1861-62 season. The name Agallian was given by professor of Greek James Van Benschoten as a derivation of the name Agalles, who was said to have invented the first game of ball-playing in ancient Greece (cf. College Argus, June 11, 1868).
The club played its first match against the Charter Oak Base Ball Club of Hartford in the spring of 1865, losing 22-12. Its first intercollegiate game, which was also Wesleyan’s first intercollegiate athletic contest, was against Yale on September 30, 1865, with Yale winning 39-13. One of club’s founders, Charles L. Bonnell, class of 1868, served as captain for his entire playing career. The first practices and home games took place on the Washington Street green in Middletown and on a nearby vacant plot of land on Washington Street. Later photos exist of games being played on the Wesleyan campus on what is now Andrus Field, which at the time was essentially an undrained swamp or wetlands. The Agallian club was not a formally sponsored university team but a club composed of members of several Wesleyan classes. A later organization, the University Base Ball Club, founded in 1869, seems to have had a more formal endorsement from the administration.
The Agallian B.B.C. ceased to function after 1871, when baseball began to be eclipsed by the popularity of rowing as a collegiate sport. Aside from informal contests between class teams, Wesleyan was not to have an organized baseball program again until 1888.
Joseph Wright Alsop was born on March 2, 1772, to the prominent merchant trader Richard Alsop II. He was the eighth child and second son in the family, and the only son of that generation to pursue merchant trade. His older brother, Charles Richard Alsop, became involved in local and state politics as well as the railroad business. His younger brother, John, also became involved in local politics and worked as a bookdealer and a writer for some part of his life.
Joseph's father Richard came to Middletown in 1750, became an early pioneer of the West India trade, and ultimately became a wealthy and successful member of Middletown society. He also became involved in local politics and charity and was known as a liberal and benevolent man. Richard died when his son, Joseph, was only four years old. Joseph's early education consisted mostly of what could be found in his father's library and in the public school system. It is said that Joseph developed an early love for life on the sea, and worked his way up from cabin boy to captain. He did not only learn his craft on the open ocean, however. It seems apparent that he was in communication for many of his early years with his uncle, John Alsop Jr. of New York, who gave him advice as well as some financial support. Additionally, he apprenticed in his youth as a clerk with Elias Shipman, who owned a trading house in New Haven. While there, he lost a significant portion of his earnings to gambling, which had become an addiction by 1790. He seemed to rid himself of this problem and eventually returned to Middletown, forming a partnership with Timothy Southmayd in shipbuilding. Shortly thereafter, Joseph became involved with trade as well, partnering with Chauncey Whittelsey and Samuel Wetmore. Through this partnership, he captained merchant vessels to places such as Naples, Barbados, and Jamaica.
He married Chauncey Whittelsey's daughter Lucy on November 5, 1797, and had six children with her, Lucy Whittelsey Alsop, Charles R. Alsop, Joseph W. Alsop, Clara Pomeroy Alsop, Elizabeth W. Alsop, and Mary W. Alsop
Joseph Wright Alsop's second son, Joseph, joined the family business by age 15 and became a successful merchant trader and businessman like his father. Clara Pomeroy Alsop never married but became notable for her charitable work, particularly with the local Widow's Home, which provided for widowed women in their old age. The oldest son, Charles R. Alsop, developed the Alsop Pocket percussion revolver, which was manufactured in Middletown, and became involved in local and state politics. Charles also owned and renovated the house built by his grandfather Chauncey Whittelsey. The house is now known as 202 Washington Street and enjoys a reputation as an excellent example of the Gothic Revival style, elements of which Charles added in his extensive early 1840s renovation.
Following the death of his partner and father-in-law Chauncey Whittelsey, Joseph Wright Alsop began a new partnership with a member of the Carrington family. Around 1820, he began the company of Alsop and Chauncey with his former apprentice Henry Chauncey, who had married his eldest daughter Lucy. His son Joseph would eventually join this business. Joseph Wright Alsop's partnership with Henry Chauncey lasted until 1835, when the latter left the company to join a firm in Valpariso, Chile owned by Joseph's nephew Richard Alsop IV. A few years after Chauncey's withdrawal from the company, Joseph retired to Middletown. He died in 1844.
After the Wesleyan centennial celebration in 1931, a few alumni began documenting their memories of Wesleyan. In 1939, the Alumni Council set up a Committee on the Collection of Recollections, which canvassed alumni for memories of faculty and anecdotes about Wesleyan history. These were to be preserved in the archives and were considered for publication in the Alumnus. After receipt and consideration they were sent to Olin Library.
Nancy Ottmann Albert received her Bachelor's Degree from Trinity College in 1988 and her Masters of Arts in Liberal Studies from Wesleyan University in 1994.
Albert began what would become the New England mill project in August of 1981, as a solo endeavor. Largely based on her own reading and library research, she aimed "to find and photograph every extant textile mill in southern New England." Living in western Connecticut at the time, she initially photographed Connecticut area mills, eventually moving outward to the Connecticut River Valley area as well as Rhode Island. As a child, she had lived in Holyoke, Massachusetts, and this connection led her to do particularly extensive work in that location.
Throughout the next few years, Albert expanded her project to include eastern Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and southern Maine. In 1984 she enrolled as an IDP student at Trinity College in Hartford, majoring in American studies. The Individualized Degree Program offered by Trinity enrolls adults not of college age looking to continue their education. For her undergraduate thesis at Trinity, she wrote a study of the company town of North Grosvenordale, Connecticut.
For her IDP project she completed a photo exhibition of industrial landscapes in New England. She graduated from Trinity in 1988 and started work at Wesleyan's Center for the Arts the next year. At Wesleyan, she began to take classes in the Graduate Liberal Studies Program.
In 1991, she became interested in the photography of Eugene Atget, a French flaneur at the turn of the century who is often considered a documentary photography pioneer given his attempts to capture the architecture and urban landscape of Paris before it succumbed to modernity. That same year, she took her first trip to Paris, following it up with a summer semester in the city in 1992 as a part of her GLSP work.
Under the direction of architecture professor John Martin, Albert completed a thesis on Atget's photography and Paris architecture, which included an exhibition at Wesleyan's Zilkha Gallery, in 1993. The next year she received her Masters of Arts in Liberal Studies.
From 1993 to 2004, Albert worked with the Hartford Studies Project at Trinity under the direction of Susan Pennybacker and photographed Hartford neighborhoods extensively. Additionally, she curated several photographic exhibitions at the Hartford Public Library and Trinity College. In 1998, Albert revisited the Milltown project in order to document the changes of the past 15 years.
In 1999, Albert was hired by the Middletown Housing Authority to document the demolition of Long River Village, Middletown's oldest housing project. Also that year, she finished documenting the changes of milltowns and began photographing mental hospitals with Sandra Wheeler.
From 2000 to 2005, Albert worked on both solo and group exhibitions and explored roadside and vernacular architecture. In 2001, she traveled to Havana, Cuba, where she photographed street life. The next year, she started work as a photo editor for the Hog River Journal, which she continued until 2005, when she was hired by Wesleyan to document the buildings at Long Lane School prior to demolition.
In 2006, Albert moved out of New England to Charlotte, North Carolina, where she began an ongoing exploration of North Carolina historic and vernacular architecture.
In addition to the subjects described above, Albert's work includes images taken in the New England, New York state, Portugal, Spain, London, Italy, Eastern Europe, Vienna, Barcelona, Bosnia, Slovenia, Croatia, and Berlin.
The Middletown Chapter of the Alpha Delta Phi has served as a literary society to Wesleyan University students since its founding on July 31, 1856. At the 1856 Alpha Delta Phi convention in New Haven, Connecticut, two Wesleyan debating societies known as the Betrian Society and the Lebanian Society petitioned the International organization of Alpha Delta Phi for inclusion in the nationwide fraternity. It was decided to merge the two societies and a charter was granted to form the Middletown Chapter as the 18th chapter of the International. The two societies already had common ground with dining at the Chronometer Club and so merging the two worked with ease.
The new chapter moved quickly to renting halls in downtown Middletown for its meetings. In 1884, after the establishment and success of the Building Fund, the chapter erected its first house located on the former Neale property on the corner of High and Cross Streets. In this house, the chapter rented out rooms, held meetings and other events, and dined in its eating club The Star & Crescent Club for almost 20 years until numerous costly repairs necessitated the chapter to tear down the structure. Immediately, plans were drawn up for a larger house located on the same property. The second Middletown Chapter house was completed in 1905 and still houses ADP members and hosts meetings, reunions, weddings, and other Wesleyan or ADP related events.
In 1881 a group of Alpha Delta Phi alumni founded the Adelphic Literary Society (ALS) to support the intellectual and moral improvement of its members by developing ties among the undergraduate and post graduate members of the chapter. With the incorporation of the ALS chartered by the Legislature of the State of Connecticut, the ALS could legally own, maintain and transfer property for the Middletown Chapter, which it successfully did to allow the building of the chapter houses for undergraduate members. The ALS is also responsible for the chapter's eating club, the Star & Crescent, and it connects with its undergraduate members through alumni events on and off campus and serving as mentors.
As a way to sponsor intellectual growth of chapter members through public and educational activities at Wesleyan University, the Adelphic Educational Fund, Inc. (AEF) was established on December 14, 1944, and has since continued the support of intellectual and social life at Wesleyan. The tax-exempt AEF was founded by alumni led by George W. Davison, 1892, and Albert W. Johnston, 1893, to aid deserving undergraduates in the attainment of a college education at Wesleyan, with a preference for members of the Middletown Chapter of the Alpha Delta Phi. In addition to educational funding made available to students through the grant-in-aid program, the AEF also funds the Middletown Chapter's literary publication AdLit, literary events such as the Assembly Series, a Faculty Fellows program, and a community service program. It also funded educational programs which are now defunct, such as the Film Series and a Science Series.
Since its formation in 1856, the Middletown Chapter dealt with local and national issues. Undergraduate members lived years through wars, financial depressions, political unrest and fraternity tensions. During these times, the members came together to support one another and strived to come out on top. In the 1960s and 1970s when co-education was making waves across American universities and colleges, the Middletown Chapter began welcoming women members from Wesleyan's re-imagined co-ed student body, resulting in what is known among ADP members and alumni as the Co-Education Issue. While the International held firm against any of its chapters going co-ed, the undergraduate members of the Middletown Chapter endorsed the inclusion of women members. From 1972 until 1992, there was a constant debate to acknowledge women into the International, a struggle that ended in a split. On August 7, 1992 at the 160th Alpha Delta Phi Convention in Brainerd, Minnesota, a contract was approved by a 41-0 vote acknowledging the withdrawal of four chapters that wished to become co-educational chapters. These four co-educational chapters, Brunonian, Columbia, Middletown and Stanford, made up the newly formed Alpha Delta Phi Society. Other chapters would later leave the national fraternity and join the Society.
In 2006, the Middletown Chapter celebrated its sesquicentennial where they hosted a reunion, conducted oral history interviews, and published a history on the chapter's meeting and living areas titled Halls, Houses & Eating Clubs.
During the 1970s and 1980s, the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) worked to unionize college and university faculty and professional librarians, and to coach them in collective bargaining with administrations. A group calling itself the Faculty Caucus voted to become a chapter of the AAUP in October 1974, reactivating what was then a dormant chapter. The reconstituted Wesleyan chapter adopted its constitution on October 9, 1974, with Victor Gourevitch as its president pro tem. Over the following two decades, the chapter took part in negotiations with the administration, including University President Colin Campbell. Beginning in 1977, Nathanael Greene, Vice President for Academic Affairs, would serve as Campbell’s liaison to the AAUP. AAUP activities at Wesleyan also included collecting information on faculty compensation at various colleges and universities and attempting to gather student body and alumni support for their bargaining efforts. Membership was voluntary, and the group never represented more than a bare majority of the faculty. The activities of the group appear to have dropped off around 1990.
In 1976, a construction permit was issued for nuclear reactors on the marshes of Seabrook, New Hampshire, near a heavily populated beach community. On April 30, 1977, the Clamshell Alliance organized a protest on the grounds of these marshes calling for the state of New Hampshire and New England as a whole to be a nuclear-free zone. The 1977 Nuclear Resistance Group on Wesleyan's campus was involved in the April 30 protest. On that day, nearly 2,000 people walked onto the construction site to protest having a nuclear presence in New England. Of those 2,000 people, over 1,400 were arrested and 39 Wesleyan students were among them. In June 1977, the Clamshell Alliance held another on-site rally consisting of 20,000 participants of which several hundred also marched to Washington D.C. to protest in front of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Students at Wesleyan who were arrested on April 30 were charged with criminal trespass in the Portsmouth Court and called for bail solidarity, therefore refusing to post bail until they were all released on personal recognizance. They were held for ten or eleven days, during which Wesleyan's Legal Defense and Bail Fund Board organized a fundraising drive for their release. As of May 11, thirty-two Wesleyan students were still held in state armories apparently under severe conditions; some of those arrested spent 14 hours on a cramped bus before any official arrest and some were held in a room with 691 other people.
Although Wesleyan organized a fundraiser for bail, the imprisoned students felt that it would be counterproductive. One student dictated a letter via telephone asking that the Wesleyan community help in writing letters, making phone calls and protesting the Connecticut governor if he were to accept any of the Seabrook prisoners into Connecticut jails. Some of the arrested students posted bail, and on May 13, the remaining prisoners accepted guilty pleas and were released on their own recognizance.
The Nuclear Resistance Group on Wesleyan's campus continued to stay active in the anti-nuclear front. In 1979, the group participated in another nationally recognized anti-nuclear rally in Buchanan, New York. Over two hundred protesters were arrested, Wesleyan students among them. In the early 1980s, protests were held on campus calling for a nuclear freeze.
The anti-nuclear arms groups also proposed and got approved Wesleyan as a nuclear-free zone. This was achieved in 1984 and consisted of an agreement with Wesleyan students and Wesleyan administration that the school would not participate in the production, testing, deployment, storage, or transportation of nuclear weapons. The school also agreed not to participate in research or investment associated with the development of nuclear weapons. Although this referendum was well-received by the Wesleyan community, the Board of Trustees had the final vote on the implementation of this agreement. Many believed this to be a symbolic gesture of the Wesleyan community during the Cold War, although the agreement was practical in the sense of Wesleyan refraining from investments and research related to nuclear arms. Although Wesleyan still had investments in companies that had some varied involvement in nuclear arms production or research, the campus decided to become a nuclear-free zone like many zoned areas in Europe.
Born in 1841 in Pleasantville, New York to a Methodist minister father, Andrus graduated from Wesleyan University in 1862. After teaching school in New Jersey for four years, he switched to a career in business and investing. He was primarily involved in the Arlington Chemical Company, which manufactured and distributed medicines typical of that time, including peptonoids, meant to help with stomach discomfort. He also invested in railroads, utilities, real estate, mining, and the Standard Oil Company. He also served as director of the New York Life Insurance Company, President of the New York Pharmaceutical Association, and President of the Palisade Manufacturing Corporation of Yonkers, Westchester County. He was said, however, to be particularly adept at locating and securing undervalued assets, particularly land. His business acumen ultimately earned him millions of dollars, securing his place as a member of the East Coast elite and allowing him to pursue other interests, including politics and philanthropy.
In 1903, already in his 60s, Andrus was elected mayor of Yonkers, New York. It is said that, throughout his life, Andrus rode the subway to work every day, even during his time as mayor. In 1904, he was elected as a representative of New York's 19th congressional district. A Republican, he entered the 59th United States Congress and continued to serving from March 4, 1905 to March 3, 1913. In 1912, he was not a candidate for re-nomination, and, despite his age, continued his former business activities. He also maintained his interest in Wesleyan trusteeship and general philanthropy.
In 1917, Andrus founded the Surdna Foundation with the goal of general philanthropy. (Surdna is the name "Andrus" backwards.) In 1923, Andrus expanded Surdna's operations to include the maintenance of an orphanage in honor of his late wife, Julia Dyckman Andrus. Julia herself had been orphaned in her youth, and Andrus established the orphanage, the Julia Dyckman Andrus Memorial, on the grounds of her adoptive family's farm in Westchester County New York. In 1953, an adjacent retirement home—the John E. Andrus Memorial—was completed by the Surdna Foundation. The Memorial is "now a multi-program mental health, social service, and special education provider for vulnerable children and families," according to an educational video by the Surdna Foundation.
Andrus was also a lay leader of the Methodist Church throughout much of his life.
A member of the Wesleyan Board of Trustees from 1889 through 1932, Andrus was uncommonly dedicated to his alma mater. One of Wesleyan's most significant benefactors, Andrus is honored at Wesleyan as the namesake of Andrus Field in the center of campus, as well as the John E. Andrus Center for Public Affairs (otherwise called the Public Affairs Center or PAC). In his time as an alumnus, Andrus donated funds for the benefit of the library, the football and baseball fields, and North College. The Andrus family donated funds to the Center for Public Affairs in the mid 1900's in his memory. In 1930, Andrus also had the distinction of being named the oldest living alumnus of Wesleyan University. He retired from his position as trustee two years later, noting that his health and age made it difficult for him to travel regularly from New York to Middletown.
In the spring of 1981, the University formed the Budget Advisory Committee (BAC) which was made up of 4 students, 4 faculty, and 3 administrators. The BAC studied alternative ways to modify the aid-blind policy. In January 1982, the committee recommended the termination of the aid-blind admissions policy. Aid-blind meant that the admissions decisions were made without regard to the students' ability to pay. Need-blind, Wesleyan University's policy as of 2008, is a system which means that once admitted, a student receives all the financial aid needed to attend Wesleyan. (The third option is budget blind which means that there is no limit to financial aid expenditures.) Wesleyan's former policy was a pure aid-blind policy because it was also need-blind and budget blind. In 1981, Wesleyan tuition was $11,450 annually.
Students immediately began to protest the change to aid-blind admissions, and the administration blamed the Reagan administration's higher education cuts. Six hundred Wesleyan students attended a rally in Washington D.C. and were recognized as the largest single group in attendance. On April 29, two hundred students rallied in front of the North College building to protest the aid-blind cuts. The April 29th Coalition, a new student group, presented President Colin Campbell with a petition signed by 1,284 students. They also collected signatures from professors, workers at Downey House (the campus center and dining hall at the time), and from Linus Pauling (two time Noble Laureate). Their demands entailed that Wesleyan return to an aid-blind system, that a student/faculty committee be formed whose primary focus was to study fiscally responsible ways of financing aid-blind admissions (with access to all information requested), that student trustees be granted full voting rights, and finally that President Campbell and the Board of Trustees voice the University's opposition to the federal higher education cuts. President Campbell responded that he would urge the reinstatement of the policy if and when it would be economically feasible. The university could not immediately reinstate the old policy because it would pose a threat to the range and quality of the educational program.
The students responded by planning a 150 hour sit-in on the second floor of North College, one hour for each year that the university had existed. On May 12, nineteen students moved into North College. In addition to the sit-in there were 150 second Die-ins on the steps of North College. Students would play dead in order to Resurrect aid-blind. It was very important to the students that the drama of the protests would not take attention away from their aid-blind message.
Although their primary demand for reestablishing the aid-blind system was not met by the end of the semester, President Campbell wrote a statement that the students' demands would be addressed at the next the Board of Trustees meeting and that reinstituting the former policy would be given the highest priority if and when circumstances permitted.
It seems that the University transitioned into a need-blind policy after this dispute, in which students would be accepted and would receive financial aid based on their need, but that their need was taken into consideration when accepted to the school. It is unclear when this policy was implemented and how long it lasted. In the 1991-92 school year, the university denied need-blind financial aid to students who were on the waiting list. Again students rallied and held (a shorter) sit-in at North College. Although the definitions of terminology varies, and different publications describe Wesleyan as either need-blind or aid-blind, the university still claims to have had a long history with giving aid-blind support to its students.
The Apostles Club was a group of faculty members at Wesleyan University who met once a month from 1894 until 1967. At each meeting one of the members or a guest would present research, followed by a discussion among the present members. On its foundation, it was, according the minutes of the first meeting, for literary and social purposes. The name The Apostles Club was adopted after a nickname referring to the number of founding members. The original faculty members were from the academic fields of literature, history, and philosophy. It was usually was hosted at one of the member's homes. The group's officers included a President, Vice President, Treasurer and a Secretary (or, if the Secretary was absent, an “ad-interim” secretary) who took notes and presented them at the next meeting to be approved by the members.
The Club ceased meeting at the end of the 1966-1967 academic year.
The period which these documents cover was a particularly tense one for the University and the Asian American Students Coalition, which seemed to take on a somewhat representative role for many dissatisfied students of all ethnicities at this time.
In January 2002, the Freeman Foundation gifted $1.9 million to the University over four years to fund visiting professors at the University who specialized in Asian American studies. According to a May 2008 Argus article, this grant was in an effort to gauge interest in Asian American studies at Wesleyan. It is unclear the extent to which students were interested in this focus of study; a Wespeak included in this collection suggests that there was chronic under-enrollment in the courses, but the May 2008 Argus article suggests that enrollment was high.
Things came to a head, however, in the spring of 2007. Not only did the initiative expire, but the Board of Trustees also denied Professor Allan Isaac of the English Department—then the only professor with a requirement to teach Asian American Studies in his job description—tenure. Isaac had the support of the English Department in his tenure application, and it reportedly came as a shock to many when he was rejected. Students organized protests about the Professor Isaac tenure denial, highlighting broader issues of cultural inclusion and knowledge in academia and the Wesleyan community at large.
The protests included a variety of methods; students held at least one rally in support of Isaac, and engaged in several paper campaigns. Hundreds of students signed a petition, many handed out pamphlets, and a series of personal letters were sent to the new President Michael Roth to express support for Issac's tenure. The protestors utilized a canary symbol in their materials, referencing the idea of a "canary in the coalmine." According to the protestors, just as the death of a canary can signal a gas leak in a coalmine, the denial of Professor Isaac's tenure pointed to a dangerous cultural heterogeneity in Wesleyan's academic life.
In an unusual move, the Board of Trustees tenured Professor Isaacs in the spring of 2008; professors generally do not get appeals for tenure. This did not entirely appease activists, however. Calls for an Asian American Studies Department continued, and students remained disappointed by the University's failure to make institutionalized change in the study of Asian American issues at Wesleyan.
The Wesleyan Athletic Council was formed by trustee authorization in 1903 to formally oversee the administration of athletics at Wesleyan. It was composed of three faculty members, three alumni members, and three students. The Council regulated most aspects of athletics including the administering of budgets, negotiations with other schools for intercollegiate matches and scheduling, player eligibility rules, hiring and supervising coaches, establishing records, and the awarding of varsity letters. The Wesleyan Alumni Athletic Association (founded in 1904) elected the three alumni members and worked with the Athletic Council, especially with fundraising, which was primarily directed toward coaches’ salaries. Prior to the Athletic Council’s formation, athletics at Wesleyan were overseen beginning in 1891 by a joint athletic committee composed of members of the student athletic associations (i.e., the teams) and student-elected alumni.
In 1923, the Board of Trustees approved a faculty proposal to move primary control of intercollegiate athletics to the faculty. The department of Physical Education, which had existed since 1910, was now responsible for most of the administrative functions of Wesleyan athletics. The Athletic Council retained control over regulation of eligibility rules, approval of team captains and managers, establishing records, and the awarding of letters to Wesleyan athletes.
Wilbur O. Atwater (May 3, 1844-Sept. 22, 1907) was born the son of Minister William Atwater and Eliza Barnes Atwater in the small town of Johnsburg, New York. After growing up in Vermont and spending his first two years of college at the University of Vermont, he transferred to Wesleyan University and received his BA in 1865. He went on to receive his M.A. (1868) and Ph.D. (1869) from Yale University, studying agricultural chemistry; he later obtained his LL. D. from the University of Vermont (1904). A world-renowned chemist, particularly in agricultural chemistry, he is best known for his role in the development of the Calorimeter, which enabled the calculation of caloric content in food items. In 1874 he married Marcia Woodard; they had two children, Helen Woodard and Charles Woodard. He became a Professor at Wesleyan University in 1873 and he remained at the post until his death in 1907.
Helen Woodard Atwater (May 29, 1876-1947) was born in Somerville, Massachusetts to Wilbur Olin Atwater and Marcia Woodard Atwater. She received her B.A. from Smith College, a graduate of the class of 1897. She then became an editorial assistant to her father, which entailed preparing his material for publications. The experience provided her with an expansive knowledge of issues of nutrition as well as the opportunity to publish some of her own popular work on the subject. In 1909 she went on to spend the next fourteen years working as a scientific consultant for the Office of Home Economics in the United State Department of Agriculture; she wrote and edited bulletins relating to food, nutrition and other issues of home economics. During World War I she was placed on the Women's Committee of the Council of National Defense as the Executive Chairman of Food Production and Home Economics. When she left the Department in 1923, she joined the American Home Economics Association in Washington, D.C., becoming the first full-time editor of their official publication, The Journal of Home Economics. The Journal was a prestigious publication dealing with issues in the growing field of Home Economics. Through her position in the Association she was able to shape the organization's policies and image. She remained with the Association for 18 years; during that time she held various positions, including secretary of the International Committee and alternate for the Women's Joint Congressional Committee, of which she was Chairman for two years. Furthermore, as a member of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection, she worked with the President's Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership. She was a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and was extended honorary membership to Phi Upsilon Omicron and Omicron Nu. She passed away in 1947 having never married.
Charles Woodard Atwater (April 23, 1885-March 24, 1946) was the son of Wilbur Olin Atwater and Marcia Woodard Atwater, born nine years junior to his sister Helen Woodard. He graduated from Wesleyan University in 1906 with a Ph. B. and Honors for general scholarship. He then went on to spend the next three years getting his law degree at Harvard Law School. In 1910 he moved to New York and began his law career; three years later he established his own law firm, Atwater and Clarke. From 1918-1919 he served as the Attorney General for the Southern District of New York. He also served as honorary consul and honorary consul general for Siam (Thailand) beginning in 1924. Charles married Alice Caroline Merriam on October 7, 1911. Together they had three children, Catherine Merriam (b. 1913), Robert Merriam (b. 1916) and Charles Woodard (b. 1920).
William Warren Atwater (1814-1874) was the son of Thomas Atwater and Betsy Boyden Atwater. He was a minister of the Methodist Episcopal Church and temperance advocate in New York and New England. He became librarian of Yale Law School in New Haven, Connecticut in 1872. He married Eliza Barnes and they had two children, Wilbur Olin (1844-1907) and Florence Amelia (b. May 29, 1852).
Wilbur Olin Atwater (1844-1907) was the son of William Warren Atwater. He graduated Wesleyan with the Class of 1865, and earned a Ph.D. in agricultural chemistry from Yale in 1869. He taught at the University of Tennessee, Maine State College, and then Wesleyan University from 1873 to 1907. Atwater was the director of the first American agricultural experiment station, in Middletown, CT, and was later appointed chief of the Office of Experiment Stations in Washington, D.C. (1888-1891). His work in calorimetric study was well known; he researched and published extensively in physiological chemistry and agricultural chemistry. He married Marcia Woodard in 1874. They had two children: Helen Woodard Atwater and Charles Woodard Atwater.
Marcia Woodard Atwater (1851-1932) was the daughter of Abram Woodard of Bangor, Maine, and sibling of Charles and Sarah. She married Wilbur Olin Atwater; they had two children Helen and Charles. Mrs. Atwater lived in Washington, D.C. from 1914 to 1929, and returned to Middletown, Connecticut.
Helen Woodard Atwater (1876-1947), was the daughter of Marcia Woodard Atwater and Wilbur Olin Atwater. She graduated Smith College in 1897. She became an editorial assistant to her father and in 1909 went to work for the Office of Home Economics in the Department of Agriculture as a science staff member. From 1923 to 1941 she was editor of the American Home Economics Association's The Journal of Home Economics, expanding the magazine's reach to scientific and education audiences. She was a member of the Women's Joint Congressional Committee and represented the American Home Economics Association at international conferences. She was a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Helen died in Washington in 1947.
Charles Woodard Atwater (1885-1946) was the son of Wilbur Olin Atwater and Marcia Woodard Atwater. Charles attended Philips Exeter Academy, graduated Wesleyan with the Class of 1906, and went on to Harvard to earn a law degree. He moved to New York in 1910, and later established his own law firm, Atwater and Clarke. He served as Consul General for Siam (Thailand). He married Alice Caroline Merriam in 1911. They had three children: Catherine Merriam Atwater (1913-2008), Robert Merriam Atwater (b.1916), and Charles Woodard Atwater, Jr. (1920-2002).
Alice Caroline Merriam Atwater (d.1950) was the daughter of Joseph and Abbie Wilson Merriam of Middletown, Connecticut. She had two siblings, Robert and Helen. She attended Smith College from 1905 to 1907. She married Charles Atwater in October 1911. They had three children.
Catherine Merriam Atwater (1913-2008) was the daughter of Alice Caroline Merriam Atwater and Charles Woodard Atwater. She graduated Smith College with the Class of 1934 and studied at Radcliffe, earning a master's degree in 1937. She married the economist John Kenneth Galbraith in 1937. They had four sons: J. Alan, Douglas, Peter W., and James K. She was a writer.
Charles Woodard Atwater, Jr. (1920-2002) was the son of Alice Caroline Merriam Atwater and Charles Woodard Atwater. He earned a B.S. in Agronomy from Cornell University in 1942, served in the Coast Guard during World War II, experienced mental illness resulting in hospitalizations at the Veterans Administration hospitals, and lived in Tyngsboro, Massachusetts.
Stephen Beekman Bangs was born on March 15, 1823. He attended Wesleyan, but left the university in 1842 during his senior year due to poor health. He later graduated with a B.A. from New York University in 1843. Bangs became a minister and in 1844 was part of the New York Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. He died on March 21, 1846 in Milford, CT.
Osmon Cleander Baker, born July 30, 1812 in Marlow, New Hampshire, attended the Wesleyan Academy (now Wilbraham Academy) in Wilbraham, Massachusetts, from 1827 to 1830. He was a member of the Wesleyan University class of 1834, and worked as a preacher while he was a student. However, he did not graduate with his class, as he left college during his senior year, possibly due to illness. Baker taught in the Newbury Seminary in Vermont from 1834 to 1839, and was principal of the institution from 1839 to 1843.
Active in the Methodist Episcopal church, he was a member of the New Hampshire Conference from 1844 to 1847. Baker served as a professor at the Methodist General Biblical Institute, in Concord, New Hampshire from 1847 to 1849, then as President from 1850 to 1852. He was elected a bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1852. In 1858, Baker University in Kansas was named in Baker's honor.
Baker died in Concord, New Hampshire, December 20, 1871.
Douglas Joseph Bennet Jr. was born in Orange, New Jersey, on June 23, 1938, to Douglas Joseph Bennet Sr. and Phoebe Benedict Bennet. The family settled in Lyme, Connecticut. Bennet Sr. (Wesleyan class of 1933) was a businessman, and he also engaged in civic service. He was active in the Connecticut Democratic party and worked as executive secretary for Chester Bowles, then-governor of Connecticut, from 1949 to 1951. Phoebe Bennet was a graduate of Mt. Holyoke College and the New York School of Social Work. She was on the board of trustees for the Mansfield Training School and helped to establish the Office of Mental Retardation in the Connecticut State Department of Health. She was also on the board of the League of Women Voters in Lyme and the Lyme Board of Education. Bennet, Jr. was the oldest of five children. He graduated from Lyme High School in June 1955.
In the fall of 1955, Douglas Bennet, Jr. entered Wesleyan University as a freshman, class of 1959. During his four undergraduate years he showed a developing interest in history, government and the Russian language. He was co-president of the fraternity Alpha Chi Rho and was active in the Wesleyan chapter's decision to withdraw from the national organization as a result of racial and religious intolerance on the part of the parent organization. Although he would later self-deprecatingly describe this exercise by saying, "This operation involved a great deal of organizing and correspondence, and was one of the most inconsequential exercises imaginable," it was emblematic of his strongly developed social conscience. Bennet went on to receive his M.A. in history from the University of California, Berkeley in 1960 and then moved to Cambridge, MA, to begin work on his Ph.D. at Harvard.
Bennet's dissertation, The Idea of Kingship in 17th Century Russia, was competed in 1967. In the intervening years he had his first taste of international government work. Family friend and mentor Chester Bowles, who was then Ambassador to India, offered Bennet a position as his administrative assistant in New Delhi, India, in 1963. Bowles had been a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Connecticut's second district from 1959 to 1961 and his vision and civic engagement were models for Bennet. Although Bennet had been thinking of going to Russia, he went instead to India, and spent two and a half years there. During that time he traveled extensively and wrote many speeches for Bowles and other administrators. He returned to Cambridge in January 1966 and finished his dissertation the following year.
With his experience as a speech writer, Bennet was able to land a job in Washington as speech writer for Vice President Hubert Humphrey. This was the beginning of almost 30 years in Washington, although his occupation was to change many times. Being a speech writer for Humphrey quickly swept Bennet into the heady and intense world of politics, especially when Humphrey ran for president in 1968. When Humphrey lost the election to Nixon, Bennet joined the staff of Thomas F. Eagleton, a senator from Missouri, in January 1969.
He worked for Eagleton as administrative assistant for the next four years. Bennet was active in the 1972 presidential election, in which Eagleton was a candidate for vice president, and helped to craft the Democratic platform that year. The controversy that broke in July regarding Eagleton's mental health gave Bennet on-the-ground training in crisis management. In April 1973, Bennet joined the staff of Abraham Ribicoff, the senator from his home state of Connecticut, again as administrative assistant. This was a short lived assignment as Bennet decided to make a run for the House of Representatives in 1974. His father, Bennet, Sr. ran for the same position in 1956. Bennet, Jr. did not win the primary and ceded the Democratic House nomination to Christopher Dodd.
In September 1974 Senator Edmund Muskie tapped him to be the first staff director of the newly formed Senate Budget Committee. Bennet held this post for the next two and a half years and it was his last in the legislative branch of government.
In 1977 Bennet reconnected with his 1960s roots in the State Department by becoming the Assistant Secretary of State for Congressional Relations. His two and a half years in this position gave him exposure to current foreign policy thinking. He traveled to Africa and China and was credited by President Carter for being instrumental in the signing of the Panama Canal Treaties in 1977. In July 1979 Carter nominated him to be administrator for the Agency for International Development (AID). Bennet held this post for the next year and a half until the 1980 election and the change of administration in January 1981. During his tenure at AID he traveled intensively, both nationally and internationally.
In January 1981 Bennet decided to spend much of that year at a slower pace, exploring his options and reconsidering his involvement with government. In December 1981 he accepted an offer by Chicago businessman, Richard J. Dennis, to be president of the Roosevelt Center for American Policy Studies, a think tank started and bankrolled by Dennis. The mission of this organization was to act as a "bridge between the public and policymakers. By increasing the public's store of unbiased information, by opening up our national debate to fresh thinking about long-term solutions, and by working directly with policy-makers, the Center aims to help Americans and their leaders make constructive and farsighted policy choices." As president, Bennet was well positioned to make the best use of his extensive administrative and foreign policy experience. He worked hard for the next year and a half to further the Center's mission and was blindsided by Dennis's decision in June of 1983 to remove him as president. Bennet resigned at the end of June and spent the summer investigating the possibility of creating his own think tank, but lack of funding prevented it. In December 1983 it was announced that he would be the next president of National Public Radio.
National Public Radio was having its own problems in the early 1980s, having nearly declared bankruptcy just before Bennet became president. Fresh from his disappointment at the Roosevelt Center and bringing his impressive administrative skills to bear, he quickly turned NPR around, injecting solvency and a new sense of energy. Bennet took up the banner of freedom of speech and the first amendment as enthusiastically as he had foreign policy.
The pull of the State Department was still strong, however. After a break with government and 10 successful years at NPR, Bennet was ready to re-engage with global issues as Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs in 1993. For the next two years he worked closely with the United Nations working to improve the standard of living worldwide as he had, off and on, for thirty years.
Bennet had always retained a strong affection for Wesleyan University, his alma mater. He had been on its board of trustees for three years, from 1972 to 1975. His father was an alumnus and two of his children were alumni. So, in 1995 when he was asked to serve as Wesleyan's president, he accepted. He was president for 12 years, from 1995 to 2007, at which time he retired from public service.
Chronology List
1938 June 23 Born in Orange, NJ. Parents: Douglas Joseph Bennet and Phoebe Benedict Bennet
1959 June BA, Wesleyan University. Dutcher Prize in History.
1960 MA, History. University of California, Berkeley.
1963-1964 Assistant to the Economic Advisor, AID, New Delhi
1964-1966 Special assistant to Ambassador Chester Bowles, New Delhi
1967 PhD, Russian, medieval history, Harvard University
1967-1968 Assistant to Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey
1969-1973 Administrative assistant to Senator Thomas F. Eagleton
1972-1975 Member of Wesleyan University Board of Trustees
1973-1974 Administrative assistant to Senator Abraham Ribicoff
1974 Ran for House of Representatives, CT 2nd district
1974-1977 Staff director of Senate Budget Committee
1977 March - 1979 August Assistant Secretary of State for Congressional Relations
1979 August - 1981 January Administrator of the Agency for International Development (AID)
1981 December - 1983 June President of Roosevelt Center for American Policy Studies
1983 December - 1993 May President of National Public Radio
1993 May - 1995 May Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs
1994 Honorary Doctor of Laws, Wesleyan University
1995-2007 15th President of Wesleyan University
1997 Honorary Doctor of Laws, Lawrence University
1999 Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters, Amherst College
2007 Honorary Doctor of Laws, Williams College
2008 Honorary Doctor of Laws, Trinity College
2008 Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters, University of Hartford
Eldon Benjamin Birdsey was born in Lyme, CT, on July 26, 1848. He subsequently resided in Middletown, CT, where he attended Wesleyan. Following his graduation from Wesleyan in 1871, Birdsey attended the University of Albany Law School where he graduated in 1872. Birsey was then admitted to the Middlesex county bar. Birdsey became the first prosecuting attorney of the Middletown city court in 1879. Birdsey continued in this position until 1883 when he was elected to serve as the probate judge for the Probate District of Middletown. Birdsey served as district probate judge until 1893. After leaving public office, Birdsey continued to practice law and served the citizens of Middlesex County. In 1885, he was elected as a trustee of Middletown Savings Bank. He also served as the attorney for the bank and became a director of the bank. Birdsey was married to Caroline E. Chase with whom he had one daughter, Laura Chase, born March 23, 1878. Birdsey died on December 6, 1917.
Lorenzo Whiting Blood was born April 13, 1812 in Mason, Hillsborough County, New Hampshire. At the age of nine, he moved to Phillipston, MA where he stayed with a Mrs. Patheus until he was fourteen. At the age of 19, Blood decided to begin his training as a Methodist Minister after a Methodist saved his soul. In 1835, at the age of 23, he attended Wesleyan University to continue his training as a minister. During his studies at Wesleyan, he taught at a school in Cheshire, was an active participant in the Missionary Lyceum at Wesleyan, and often spoke at the African Church. Blood also made many trips to Phillipton, Massachusetts to visit his mother and his future wife, Elizabeth Smith. On November 1, 1836, Blood briefly left Wesleyan University to teach at Amenia Seminary, a school of sixty to seventy students. On March 16, 1837, Blood contracted the measles which left him on the verge of death for two months, but luckily he survived. Blood left Amenia Seminary after his sickness, only to return a few months later at the request of the new headmaster. On August 1, 1838, Blood graduated from Wesleyan University with 26 other students.
After commencement, Blood moved to Litchfield, CT, where he became minister of the Methodist Church there. On November 13, 1838 Blood established a select school in Bradleysville, but it only last until March 1, 1839. After the school was shut down on June 19, 1839, Blood married Elizabeth Smith. He served as minister in South Hadley for two years, and then moved to Stafford, CT. On March 1, 1841, Blood's first daughter, Mary, was born. On June 18, 1841, he was ordained as a deacon of Stafford and then went to the Methodist General Conference to discuss the topic of abolition, but there were fears that the southern Methodist Church would break away from the church as a whole. On July 11, 1844, Blood was appointed to the Methodist church in Mystic, CT.
Blood next moved to East Greenwich, Rhode Island in 1847, where his health failed. Following this incident, Blood remained in Connecticut. Blood was stationed in South Glastonbury (1848-1849), Rockville (1850), Hazardville (1851-1852), Quarryville (1853-1854), Colchester (1855-1856), and Danielsonville (1857-1858). From 1859-1861, Blood was Presiding Elder of New London District. Blood was then stationed at Portland (1861-1862), Uncasville (1863-1865), North Grosvenor Dale (1866-1867), Norwich Town (1868), Warehouse Point (1869-1870), Burnside (1871-1872), and Windsorville (1874). During his time in Windsorville, his health failed yet again. However, he recovered and was then stationed at Gurleyville (1875-1876), Staffordville (1877-1879), and West Thompson (1880-1881). Lorenzo Whiting Blood died 1881 at about age 69.
Dr. Victor Lloyd Butterfield (1904-1975) served as Wesleyan University's eleventh president from 1943-1967, the longest-serving president in Wesleyan's history. Butterfield was born on February 7, 1904, in Kingston, Rhode Island, to Kenyon L. Butterfield and Harriet Millard. He married Katharina Geyer on June 11, 1928 and they had two children, Margot and Daniel.
As a child, Butterfield always wanted to be a teacher, his own father being the president of Rhode Island State College and later Massachusetts State College. Butterfield attended Deerfield Academy before moving onto Cornell where he graduated from in 1927 and later received a master's degree in 1928. In 1936, he earned his PhD from Harvard.
After teaching at independent schools and universities, Butterfield arrived at Wesleyan in 1935 as director of admissions and instructor in philosophy. Butterfield quickly progressed to Dean of Freshmen in 1938, Associate Dean in 1941 and Acting President in 1942. After a one-year stint as acting president of Wesleyan, he was inaugurated as president in 1943 and remained as such until his retirement in 1967.
During Butterfield's tenure at Wesleyan, he increased the size of the student body, the number and quality of faculty, number of buildings on campus, and the endowment fund. Butterfield also changed the curriculum to meet the demands of returning WWII soldiers, and through his dedication to liberal education he created the highly acclaimed and innovative "College Plan", established the Center for Advanced Studies and laid the framework for the re-establishment of a co-educational Wesleyan.
Butterfield, a nationally-known spokesman for liberal education, was a member and at times leader of many organizations and societies such as the Ford Foundation for Advancement of Education, and the Commission on Liberal Education of the Association of American Colleges. His involvement with such organizations and societies continued on after he retired from Wesleyan. He earned honorary degrees from 14 institutions.
Carl Carlson was born May 3, 1920 in Hartford, CT. Carlson was in the first group of Fox Scholars selected in 1937, the same year Lewis Fox, an attorney and philanthropist of Hartford, CT established the Fox Foundation. The Fox Foundation provided scholarships for outstanding high school seniors to attend college. Carlson attended Wesleyan University September 1937 to February 1940 and September 1940 to June 1941. He was a non-graduating member of the class of 1941. Carlson joined the Royal Canadian Air Force and served as an aerial navigator until he was killed in action in the European Theatre of Operations December 1, 1943.
Arthur Benjamin Calef was born in Sanbornton, NH on June 30, 1825. He attended Wesleyan University between 1847 and 1851. He studied law in Middletown, CT, serving as clerk of the Middlesex County courts for eight years. In 1855, he was elected State Treasurer of Connecticut; three years later, he was elected Middletown City Attorney. He also served as a Middletown councilman, alderman and recorder. He was trustee, secretary, lecturer on constitutional law, and president of both Psi U and the Alumni Association at Wesleyan University. In 1860 and 1864, he was a delegate to the National Republican Convention. He served as postmaster - elected by Republicans - from 1861 - 1869. From 1884 - 1895, Calef was Middletown City Court Judge. He was a Son of the American Revolution and a Freemason. He died in 1900.
John Woodruff was born in West Hartford, CT on February 12, 1826. He received little schooling and moved to New Haven in 1845, where, three years later, he was elected a member of the common council. He served in the Thirty-fourth Congress (March 1855 - March 1857) as a member of the American Party, and, after unsuccessfully running for reelection to the Thirty-fifth Congress, was elected as a Republican to the Thirty-sixth Congress (March 1859 - March 1861). In 1862, he was appointed internal revenue collector for the second district of Connecticut. He died in 1868.
Albert Camus was born in 1913 in Mondovi, Algeria. He attended the University of Algiers and graduated in 1936. Camus worked as a journalist following his graduation, and eventually moved to Paris, where he worked with the French resistance. During World War II and the years afterward, Camus increasingly focused on novels and plays. He is best known for L'Etranger (The Stranger), La Peste (The Plague), L'Homme Revolte (The Rebel), and La Chute (The Fall). He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1957. Camus died in 1960 as the result of a car accident in France.
The Center for Advanced Studies (CAS) was founded at Wesleyan University in 1959 and existed until 1969. Wesleyan appears to be the first liberal arts college to create such a center. The CAS invited fellows to reside at Wesleyan and participate in the intellectual life of the campus. Each year, the fellows were a diverse group of academics, scientists, social scientists, writers, artists, and other intellectuals.
In a memo to the faculty announcing the creation of the center, President Victor Butterfield wrote: We feel that institutions of Wesleyan's type, if they can find the resources, should on principle support vigorously the creative work of some of our very ablest people in the liberating disciplines. We feel particularly that such people should be drawn not only from abroad as well as from home, but from the so-called 'active' as well as scholarly professions. One of our concerns and one of the nation's persisting and serious problems is the cultural gap in our society between the intellectual and the man of affairs. We feel that each of these types has much to learn from the other, that they should come together more often in serious discourse, and that the liberal institution should support the study and writing of our ablest journalists, justices, ministers, industrialists and the like, as well as of professional scholars and creative artists.
The Center for Advanced Studies building was housed in Olin library until fall 1960 when it moved into a new building behind the Russell House on Pearl Street (the same building where the Center for the Humanities was later located). Fellows stayed for a full school year, a semester, or a period of weeks, depending on scheduling. During their residence at Wesleyan, fellows were encouraged to research and write but also to work with undergraduate students within Wesleyan departments. They often gave lectures and seminars about their specialties, or even offered courses. The fellows were provided with residences for themselves and their families and given a stipend. Most fellows were men, but several women were also invited, including Hannah Arendt and Jean Stafford.
Sigmund Neumann served as director of CAS from 1959-1962, Paul Horgan from 1962 until 1967, and Phillip Hallie as acting director from 1967-1969. Suggestions for fellows were accepted from all members of the Wesleyan community. Fellows were selected by a panel consisting of the president of the university, the director of CAS, and a trustee. Their decisions were presented to the faculty for approval. Monday evening dinners provided opportunities for fellows and faculty to mingle throughout the year. Wednesday afternoon open houses were sponsored by CAS to bring fellows and students together. Among the fellows to reside at CAS were Hannah Arendt, John Cage, Daniel P. Moynihan, Leslie Munro, and Richard Wilbur.
Beginning in 1968, the fellows were chosen for their similarity of interests in order to allow them to collaborate and to connect with the Wesleyan community in greater depth. At the end of 1968, plans were made to convert the Center for Advanced Studies into a Center for the Humanities. This change was partially the result of the Study for Educational Policies and Programs (SEPP) conducted in early 1968. The major changes included a selection process administered by a board that included faculty, students, and administrators; required teaching responsibilities; and the selection of a broad issue in which the scholars would focus their research. These changes, and the new name, took effect in fall 1969.
Chronology of Fellows
1959-1960
Alan Willard Brown
Reuel N. Denney
Herbert McLean Evans
Paul Horgan
C. I. Lewis
William Manchester
Clarence Belden Randall
Nathan Shapira
1960-1961
Edgar Anderson
Reginald Francis Arragon
Marston Bates
Julius Seelye Bixler
John Cage
Walter Van Tilburg Clark
Austin Farrer
Alvin Harvey Hansen
Paul Gray Hoffman
Leonard Bernheim Meyer
Sir Leslie Knox Munro
Sir Ronald Syme
Conrad Hal Waddington
Lancelot Law Whyte
Alfred Hector Williams
1961-1962
Hannah Arendt
Julius Seelye Bixler
Brand Blanshard
George Boas
Douglass Cater
Gilbert Harrison Clee
Paul Horgan
Pamela Hansford Johnson
Walter J. Ong, S. J.
Tibor Rado
Sir Charles Percy Snow
1962-1963
Hannah Arendt
Balasaraswati
Richard Walker Bolling
Kay Boyle
John Lackey Brown
Harry Caplan
Douglass Cater
Angna Enters
Torsten Gardlund
Philip Paul Hallie
Erik Holmberg
Abraham Kaplan
Paul Patrick Streeten
1963-1964
Ernst Bacon
Harry Caplan
Christopher Derrick
Rene Jules Dubos
William H. Halewood
Arthur Lennart Kalleberg
John Frank Kermode
Hans Kohn
Terence Martin
Lewis Mumford
Aage Peterson
Sir Herbert Read
Donald H. Reiman
Carl E. Schorske
Ernest J. Simmons
1964-1965
Luigi Barzini, Jr.
Martin J. Buss
Herbert Butterfield
John Leonard Clendenning
Very Rev. Martin Cyril D'Arcy, S.J.
Wayne Donald Dodd
Rene Jules Dubos
Moses Hadas
Hiram Haydn
Hans Jonas
John Bartlow Martin
Willard Van Orman Quine
Sir Herbert Read
Jean Stafford
Edmund Wilson
1965-1966
Harold Gomes Cassidy
Leon Edel
Mircea Eliade
Jesse Hill Ford
Anne Fremantle
Richard N. Goodwin
Sergio Gutierrez Olivos
Daniel P. Moynihan
Sean O'Faolain
Michael Polanyi
Ernest J. Simmons
1966-1967
William Arrowsmith
John Buxton
Joseph Elder
Robert Fuller
Richard N. Goodwin
Sergio Gutierrez Olivos
Thomas Messer
J. A. Richards
Stephen Spender
Rev. George Tavard
1967-1968
Arvid Brodersen
Hans Magnus Enzensberger
Paul Horgan
Gorham Munson
Lawrence Clark Powell
Edward Weismiller
Richard Wilbur
Huseyn Yilmaz
Ralph Young
1968-1969
Lucien Goldmann
Paul Horgan
Herbert H. Hyman
Howard Robinson
Theodore Sarbin
Petrus J. Verdoorn
During early October 1931, Wesleyan University celebrated its centennial. The event brought together current students, faculty, alumni, parents, and honored guests including the Canadian Prime Minister, Richard Bedford Bennett. The events included a musical comedy, entitled The Girl and the Graduate, written by alumnus William B. Davis and originally performed in 1908. The events also consisted of banquets, concerts, recitals, lectures, and sporting events. For example, Wesleyan’s football team squared off against Columbia University, falling 0-37. The events of the centennial produced varied ephemera, including badges for alumni and event staff, pamphlets, schedules, menus and souvenirs. The event also produced many photographs and coverage in newspapers such as the Hartford Courant and campus publications such as The Wesleyan University Alumnus and The Wesleyan Argus.
Wesleyan University's Memorial Chapel was built and dedicated in 1871. It was intended to commemorate those Wesleyan students and alumni who fought in the Civil War, and later additions of stained glass windows acknowledge student service in other wars. The Memorial Chapel has been the main site of religious ceremonies at Wesleyan since 1871. The services were primarily Methodist.
Sidera Chase was born on October 31, 1818, in Hoosick, New York. He graduated from Wesleyan in 1842. While at Wesleyan Chase was a member of the fraternities: Delta Kappa Epsilon and Phi Beta Kappa. Chase was also a founding member of the Mystical Seven at Wesleyan. Chase was a teacher at Preparatory School in Middletown of which he later became assistant principal (1840-1842). Chase later became principal of the Female Institute in Middletown (1848-1854) and later the Newark Wesleyan University in New Jersey. He subsequently left the educational field due to poor health. Chase had a stint in manufacturing from 1854 until 1861, which was interrupted due to the Civil War, and continued again from 1866 to 1869. Chase later was the U.S. Deputy Collector in New York's First District from 1869 until 1873. Chase again switched careers when he began work on the editorial staff of the New York Tribune (1873-1887). Following his working career, Chase engaged in study and writing until his death on September 21, 1897 in Nordhoff, New Jersey. Chase was the brother of the first Wesleyan graduate, Daniel Henry Chase. Chase was married to Sarah Johnson of Middletown. They had four children: Frances Elizabeth (born 1842), Julia Fisher (born 1848), Jennie Burton (born 1854), and Nellie Low (born 1857).
29 August 1896 Born in New Haven, Connecticut.
1899 Moved with his parents to Middletown, Connecticut. Attended the grammar and high schools there.
1918 Graduated from Wesleyan University.
1918 World War I. Enlisted in the United States Army, July 5, 1918. Trained at Plattsburgh, New York and Camp Taylor, Kentucky. Commissioned a second lieutenant of Field Artillery on September 16, 1918. Discharged on December 14, 1918.
1921 Graduated from Harvard Law School. [For an account of the intellectual and political ferment in Cambridge and at the law school during these years, see Arthur E. Sutherland, The Law at Harvard: A History of Ideas and Men, 1817-1967 (Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1967), pp. 226-299.]
1922 Admitted to the Connecticut Bar in 1922, commenced practice in Middletown and practiced there for several decades. Admitted to practice in United States District Court and United States Supreme Court. Served as Justice of the Peace and as Commissioner of the Connecticut Supreme Court.
1926-1940 Democratic Party: A lifelong Democrat, Citron was a delegate to all Democratic State Conventions from 1926 to 1940. He was an alternate to the Democratic National Conventions in 1932, 1936, and 1940.
1924-1932
CONNECTICUT STATE ASSEMBLY. Citron was nominated by the Democratic Party as its candidate to the State House of Representatives in 1924, 1926 and 1930. He was elected on the second and third occasions and thus was a member of the Assembly during the 1927-1928 and 1931-1932 sessions, serving as minority leader during both sessions. [On Connecticut political life during these years and later, see Duane Lockard, New England State Politics (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1959), pp. 228-304.]
RECORD IN STATE LEGISLATURE: FIRST TERM. During his first term, Citron was one of 25 Democrats among 237 Republicans in the Republican administration of Governor John H. Trumbull. A member of the Committees on Military Affairs, Rules, and the Sale of Lands, he introduced one resolution and 18 bills, including ones to require proof of financial responsibility of owners of motor vehicles in case of an accident (HE 70), to increase benefits for dependent children under the Workmen's Compensation Act (HE 202). to exempt voters in state elections from payment of a personal tax for the year (HB 660), and to require approval of all rate increases by public service corporations (HE 712). All of these were rejected owing in part to the Appropriations Committee's "rate of slaughter" for proposed bills. Apparently, their war cry was "Cut, cut, cut for Connecticut!" (Middletown Press, March 12, 1927, p. 1), for it was felt "the 1927 session of the state legislature probably [would] create a new record for minimum number of laws placed on the statute books... " (Middletown Press, April 9, 1927, p. 1).
RECORD IN STATE LEGISLATURE: SECOND TERM. As a result of the 1930 election, Citron became one of the 85 Democrats among only 182 Republicans in the Democratic administration of Governor Wilbur L. Cross. He served again on the Rules and Military Affairs Committees, and also was a member of the Committee on Forfeited Rights. He introduced 7 bills, 6 resolutions, and one petition. He called for the repeal of Prohibition (HJR 111), an amendment to the State Constitution requiring a two-thirds vote to override a Governor's veto (HR 25), and creation of a city planning commission in Middletown (HB 362).
1928-1932 City Corporation Counsel of Middletown.
1932-1933 Member, Connecticut Old Age Pension Committee. Appointed by Governor Wilbur L. Cross.
1933-1934 Clerk of the Connecticut State Senate.
1935-1939
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Citron was a Democratic candidate for Congress in 1928, 1932, 1934, 1936, 1938 and 1952. He was elected as an at-large candidate in 1934 and 1936 and served in Congress from January 3, 1935 to January 3, 1939. A member of the Judiciary Committee, Citron was decidedly a Roosevelt or New Deal Democrat who initiated and supported measures to regulate business, to control utilities, and to regulate the Connecticut River. Among the measures he supported were the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Extension Act, the National Industrial Recovery Extension Act, the Work Relief and Public Works Appropriation Act of 1938, and the Social Security Act. He also voted for the Civilian Conservation Corps and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.
RECORD IN CONGRESS: FIRST TERM. During his first term in 1935-1936, Congressman Citron introduced a total of 19 bills and resolutions, including ones to grant pensions to Spanish-American War veterans (HR 7508), to create a commission to make a study of the textile industry (HR-672l), to authorize the President to loan $25 million for flood relief (HR 12131), to deny government contracts over $2,000 to any firms employing convicts or persons under 16 (HR 12582), to amend the U.S. Constitution to give the President line-item veto power (HJR 552), and to permit an income tax on securities (HJR 576).
RECORD IN CONGRESS: SECOND TERM. Upon reelection, Citron in 1937-1938 introduced, among others, bills to protect individuals from lynching (HR 4181), to make the Civilian Conservation Corps a permanent agency (HR 4481), to authorize commemorative stamps to honor Kosciusko and Krzyzanowski (RJR 189, HJR 187), to construct Coast Guard ice breakers, one for New London (HR 4653), and later to investigate price fixing of building materials (HR 390, third session).
1935 Appointed member of the Connecticut Tercentenary Commission [79 Congo Rec. 11,121].
1935-1936 CONDEMNATION OF NAZI GERMANY. Citron was an outspoken opponent of anti-semitism and, in 1935, wrote to Avery Brundage of the United States Olympic Committee to urge that American athletes boycott the Olympics scheduled to take place in Berlin in the summer of 1936. He also made remarks printed in the Congressional Record, pointing out that the Nazi government of Germany was simply exploiting this event to claim honor in the family of nations and that Nazi racist practices would be given tacit approval if the United States fielded a team. Citron's objections and those of others were not abided by but his forecast stands in the record. [For an account of the politics and the total environment of the games, see Richard D. Mandell, The Nazi Olympics (New York: Macmillan, 1971.)]
1935-1937 CONNECTICUT VALLEY AUTHORITY (CVA). Citron introduced HR 4979 on January 29, 1935, to establish the CVA, modeled after the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA). On April 17, the New England Regional Planning Commission voted down the CVA proposal in favor of the interstate compact method of developing water resources. On February 16, 1937 he reintroduced a CVA bill (HR 4811) modified to include a ten-member advisory commission made up of local experts. New England and Congress favored the flood control compact, and the CVA idea fell into obscurity.
1935-1937 C0NNECTICUT RIVER FLOOD CONTROL COMPACT. Citron introduced HJR 377 on August 13, 1935 to enable all the New England states and New York to enter into agreements or compacts for flood control, pollution control, or other improvements. F. D. Roosevelt signed this into law on June 8, 1936. The Connecticut River Valley Flood Control Commission was ratified on July 6, 1937 by four states.
1936 GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS LEGISLATION. The Walsh-Healy Act of June 30, 1936 [49 Stat. 2036, 41 U.S. Code secs. 35-45] included provisions forbidding the Federal Government from contracting for supplies from companies employing child or contract labor. Citron was among Congressmen who introduced bills on this subject which became integral parts of the Walsh-Healy Act. He also introduced an amendment to provide a prevailing wage for employees in the shipbuilding industry.
1938 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES. Although Citron lost the election of 1938 and was not again returned to public office, he continued to have an important place in political affairs. He ran for Congress again in 1952, but was defeated. He also continued to participate in the affairs of the Democratic Party and as an adviser to numerous political aspirants and officeholders.
1940-1942 Chairman, Housing Authority of Middletown, Connecticut.
1942 Married Helen Brodow of Hartford on September 25. Children: Nannette Carol, Lynda Joan (Siff).
1942-1944 WORLD WAR II. Entered the U.S. Army as Captain, Corps of Military Police, on July 16, 1942, and was subsequently promoted to Major on April 16, 1943. Citron served in North Africa from October 1942 to March 1944.
1947-1948 Commander, Connecticut Disabled American Veterans.
1948-1949
Member, Connecticut Veterans' Reemployment and Advisory Commission.
MEMBERSHIPS. American Bar Association, American Legion, Eagles, Elks, I.O.B.B., Masons, Odd Fellows, Veterans of Foreign Wars.
RESIDENCE. 124 High Street, Middletown, Connecticut, 06457.
The Connecticut River--William M. Citron's Contribution
CONNECTICUT RIVER: A natural resource of immense significance to the region, subject to spring flooding, the Connecticut River held an abiding fascination for William Citron. He grew up on its banks in Middletown and formed an early attachment to the river and an interest in its regulation for the public good. The Connecticut River flows from the Canadian border in New Hampshire 410 miles through Vermont, Massachusetts, and Connecticut to Long Island Sound, dropping 2200 feet from its upper reaches to the ocean. The development of water power led to the industrialization of such cities as Holyoke and Springfield, Massachusetts. The Connecticut's navigability to Hartford made that city and Middletown important seaports from colonial times, with the quarries in Portland, across from Middletown, producing the brownstone for the famous apartment buildings of New York's post-Civil War years. [See Evan Hill, The Connecticut River, with photographs by William F. Stekl, introduction by Roger Tory Peterson, and foreword by Abraham Ribicoff. (Middletown, Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, 1972.)]
SOURCES OF POLITICAL CONFLICT IN THE CONNECTICUT RIVER VALLEY: Private development of power on the Connecticut River was the rule. Federal action in the movement for the regulation of utilities or the direct development of public power was resisted under the cloak of states rights. The issue of flood control was also important in the political life of these states, especially Connecticut, and individual political figures like Citron were drawn into unending disputes about numerous imponderables. One careful student of the subject concluded that the disputes, as they took shape, reflected the political configurations and moral attitudes of the major contesting interest groups in the era of Franklin Roosevelt. The question of federal-state conflict in the Connecticut Valley is a microcosm of the political struggles of the period. [Leuchtenburg, Flood Control Politics, p. 1]
NATURAL DISASTERS IN THE CONNECTICUT RIVER VALLEY. Politics may not explain the time of acts of God but natural disasters do have political consequences. Three such devastations visited the Connecticut Valley between 1927 and 1938, years coinciding with Citron's emerging prominence, as follows:
(1) The New England flood of November 1927 resulted from a collision of a cold, western stormbank with moist southern winds. Torrential rain fell over all of Vermont, and western Massachusetts and Connecticut, November 2-4, followed by near-zero temperatures the following week. The resulting flood left thousands homeless, took hundreds of lives, destroyed numerous bridges, and aroused great citizen interest in flood control needs. In much of the Connecticut Valley, the floodwaters reached their greatest height in three centuries. The November 1927 flood was incomparably more destructive than any previous flood in the history of New England. [Leuchtenburg, p. 29.] The chief response to the 1927 disaster was to ignore interstate action and to urge that private power companies develop a system of storage reservoirs for peaks on the river. The years passed with insufficient action to achieve a bare minimum of flood protection. But as Leuchtenburg points out, a flood of the magnitude of 1927 was not to be expected for another century.
(2) The Connecticut River Valley was flooded even more severely than 1927 between March 12 and 26, 1936. Industrial life came to a stand-still. By March 22 Hartford was in a virtual state of siege. [Leuchtenburg, p. 47] There was devastation from northern Vermont to Long Island Sound. The flood was a major disaster for the Connecticut Valley, by far the worst in memory . . . It cost at least sixty million dollars at a time when the valley was only slowly recovering from the great depression. The New England floods took twenty-four lives and left 77,000 homeless. [Leuchtenburg, p. 48.] Previously buried, Citron's August 1935 proposal, H.J. Res. 377, to enable the drafting of interstate compacts, was revived in April 1936.
(3) On September 21, 1938, following four days of rain, a tropical hurricane of major dimensions struck New England and left devastation that clearly surpassed that wrought by the great floods of 1927 and 1936. The storm's center hit just west of New Haven and passed up the Connecticut River Valley to Canada, and yet counter-cyclonical winds of 110 miles an hour were felt in Providence and Boston. The hurricane struck when the tides were higher than normal. The wind blew down and damaged 250 million trees, including some 20 percent of the maple sugar trees of Vermont. Hundreds of trees on the Wesleyan campus in Middletown were felled. Damage to crops of all kinds was extreme, 488 lives were lost and property damage was incalculable throughout New England. One assessment, possibly excessive but worth bearing in mind was this: The property damage was the greatest in any disaster in American History, worse than the San Francisco earthquake or the Chicago fire. [Leuchtenburg, p. 113.]
CONNECTICUT RIVER VALLEY FLOOD CONTROL COMPACT
Among the means explored to govern problems created by the untamed Connecticut River was the interstate compact idea suggested in the United States Constitution, Article I, section 10, providing: No State shall, without the consent of Congress . . . enter into any agreement or compact with another State. After much study, Mr. Citron on August 13, 1935, introduced a Joint Resolution to enable the six New England States and New York, or any two or more of them, to negotiate and enter into agreements or compacts for conserving and regulating the flow, lessening flood damage, making other public improvements on any rivers or streams whose drainage basins lie within any two or more of the said States. (H. J. Res. 377, 74th Cong., 1st sess.) The bill was referred to the House Judiciary Committee, where it lay until April 1936. At that time debate on the so-called Copeland bill, designed to require local contributions for federal flood control efforts, led Congressmen to look at other alternatives, including Citron's bill. Hearings were held in April at which Citron stated that he thought New Englanders preferred the home rule flood control option to the federal intervention as in the TVA. [Leuchtenburg, p. 50.] The bill was favorably reported by the Committee, passed, and was signed into law on June 8, 1936. Shortly thereafter, President Roosevelt signed into law the Omnibus Flood Control Act of 1936 (the Copeland Act) [Leuchtenburg, p. 51], which provided some funds for flood control projects on the Connecticut and also authorized creation of interstate compacts in New England for the purpose of determining and distributing costs of land purchases, rights of way, and construction of dams among the states involved.
When the New England Joint Commission on Interstate Compacts for Flood Control met in Boston that year, delegates from Vermont and New Hampshire made it clear that they were not about to flood good land for the benefit of those downstream, namely Connecticut and Massachusetts. Nevertheless, upon urging from a representative of President Roosevelt, the states came up with a completed draft for a flood control compact. It called for creation of a Flood Control Commission to distribute the costs of acquiring land according to the following ratios: Massachusetts, 50 per cent; Connecticut, 40 per cent; Vermont, 5 per cent; and New Hampshire, 5 per cent.
One provision of the proposed compact caused considerable opposition by the Roosevelt Administration in Washington. Article 8 provided that the states in which the dams were constructed would have exclusive rights of water conservation, power storage, or power development provided by each reservoir site. The Federal Power Commission objected to this provision, claiming it violated the Flood Control Act of 1936 and the Federal Water Power Act of 1920. Roosevelt himself opposed Congressional approval of the New England compact, which forced the issue back in Connecticut.
Those who opposed the Administration's rejection of the power provision included the Hartford Courant and Governor Wilbur Cross in Connecticut, as well as Governor George Aiken of Vermont, Governor Francis Murphy of New Hampshire, and the Boston Transcript. Those who supported Roosevelt included Congressmen Citron, Alfred Phillips, and Herman Koppelman of Connecticut; Joseph Casey of Massachusetts; and Senator Fred Brown of New Hampshire. This support proved disastrous in the 1938 election, only a month and a half after the hurricane of September 21. Only Congressman Casey was reelected. [Leuchtenburg, p. 119.]
TVA ON THE CONNECTICUT
The controversy over the TVA arose from Citron's bill, HR 4979, introduced on January 29, 1935. Reaction to the idea was mixed. Roosevelt thought that the TVA should be studied thoroughly before attempting nationwide implementation. Private utilities in New England opposed a Connecticut Valley Authority, and no substantial support for the bill ever became evident. As a result, the bill died in committee.
On February 16, 1937, Citron reintroduced a modified version of the CVA bill (HR 4811) which would include an advisory commission of representatives from the New England states to be recommended by the Governors of those states. This concession to home rule, however, did nothing to get the bill past the committee on Flood Control.
FINAL ACTION
A quick review of action in Congress after the New England compact was submitted for approval follows. While the committee hearings were in progress. HR 10618, the omnibus flood control bill for 1938, was reported out on May 19. In the course of floor debate, Alben Barkley's amendment giving the Federal Government title to dams and reservoirs in all Federal flood control programs won Senate approval. Roosevelt concurred with this amendment, and the bill passed both houses in June 1938, and was signed into law by the President. It was now the Federal Government's turn to attempt to solve the massive political and economic flood control problems in New England. [For a detailed account, see Leuchtenburg, pp. 110-120.]
CITRON'S ROLE
Congressman Citron lost the election of 1938, but had done his part to see that Congress had a number of alternatives to direct Federal control of the Connecticut River flood program. As a New Deal Democrat, William M. Citron tried to bring the successes of the Federal Government in other programs into New England through the TVA idea. New England sentiment, however, was in favor of local authority for solving the problems of the Connecticut River Valley. His first bill enabling the New England states to form a compact stood as the foundation for the eventual agreement among those states that they must act independently of the Federal Government to get action. While approval of their compact agreement was held up in Congress, Roosevelt's program was passed. Meanwhile, the hurricane of 1938 struck. It is interesting to note that the New England Flood Control Commission was finally formed and approved by all the participating states by the summer of 1951. [Leuchtenburg, p. 211.] After sixteen years in the works, a system was operational. Political change may not come in time to prevent acts of God, but natural disasters do have significant political consequences.
Do Gieng Ciu, a member of the Wesleyan Class of 1916, was born on February 11, 1888 in Foochow, China. Dr. Ciu is probably the best known of the Chinese students who attended the Anglo-Chinese College in Foochow then came to Wesleyan to study. It appears that sometime between his junior and senior years at Wesleyan, Ciu changed his name to Womin Chou. He is listed under Ciu in the annual Catalogs of students as attending Wesleyan for the years 1913/14 (sophomore) and 1914/15 (junior). In the Catalog for his senior year, 1915/16, he is listed as Womin Chou. This change of name also appears on his student record in the Registrar’s files. There is no Ciu in the 1917 Olla Podrida. There is, however, the name and picture of Donald Grove (Womin) Chou. The Olla Podrida notes that Chou was a member of the Chinese Student Union. Regardless of the change of name, Wesleyan sources use the name of Do Gieng Ciu.
After receiving his Bachelor of Science from Wesleyan, Ciu went on to earn a Bachelor of Divinity degree from Drew Theological Seminary in 1919; a Master of Arts from Columbia in 1920; and a Doctor of Pedagogy from New York University in 1921.
Although Ciu studied chemistry, political science and teaching, when he returned to his native country of China, he chose to be a missionary. He accepted an appointment in the city of Kutien and began his missionary work there in February 1921. There he started six preaching bands to work in the six city wards, in the city prison, and among the soldiers. He preached nightly. He set up a night school with 47 members, and a boys club with 23 members. Two nights a week, he lectured on hygiene, church history, or doctrine. Ciu became known as The flaming evangel of Kutien.
While traveling to Kuliang, a summer resort near Foochow, Ciu was killed by bandits on August 20, 1921. A memorial service was held at Wesleyan on March 5, 1922. The principle speaker was Ralph Ward, Secretary of the Board of Foreign Missions of the Methodist Church and Ciu’s teacher at Anglo-Chinese College in Foochow, China.
This collection contains records of rowing/crew at Wesleyan University in the 1870s and 1880s. At the time, each class of students at Wesleyan organized its own rowing club. The class of 1873 Boat Club was organized on October 4, 1870, by 19 members of the class of 1873. It participated in the first Wesleyan regatta, which was held July 19, 1871, with the clubs of the classes of 1872, 1873, and 1874 competing.
Class Day was an annual celebration related to the commmencement exercises at Wesleyan University, and usually occurred in June. Programs often included speeches, musical performances, poetry, and the awarding of prizes. The programs were arranged by members of the graduating class and featured their fellow senior students.
Wesleyan University began holding reunions for its alumni in the late 1860s. Prior to that, alumni stayed in touch with one another through correspondence. The University began compiling news and events related to its graduates beginning in the 1850s, and these collections of updates were frequently gathered into volumes distributed to class members.
Laban Clark, D.D., father of Wesleyan University and first president of Wesleyan's Board of Trustees, was born in Haverhill, New Hampshire in 1778. He was twice married, first to Harriet Fairchild, daughter of Anson Fairchild and Orpha Spelman. Harriet died in 1836, leaving three children: Joseph, William P. and Marianne Clark (Howland). Clark remarried in April 1837 to Sarah Dorchester Hanks. She lived until 1866, two years before her husband. Laban Clark and his wives are buried in the Wesleyan cemetery on Foss Hill.
From 1801 to 1851, Laban Clark was engaged in the work of the ministry, New York and New York East Conferences, Methodist Episcopal Church. In 1803 he served as a missionary in Lower Canada. Laban Clark introduced the resolution to organize the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church in New York City in 1819. Clark took an active part in advocating Willbur Fisk's educational report in the General Conference in 1828. Both were in sympathy with the movement to establish a Methodist college.
It was while Clark was presiding elder of the New Haven District in 1829 that he became interested in acquiring the buildings and grounds of the American Literary, Military and Science Academy in Middletown, Connecticut. At the Troy Conference in May 1829 Clark made the proposal to buy the ALS&M Academy property. After other locations were studied as well, and the endowment funds raised, the General Assembly of the State of Connecticut granted a charter to the Wesleyan University on May 21, 1831. Laban Clark served as the president of the Board of Trustees from 1831 to 1868. In 1852, Clark was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Divinity degree from the University.
He died on November 28, 1868, in Middletown Connecticut.
The commencement orations given by 19th century Wesleyan students reflect their studies in classics and their interests in philosophy, literature, and politics.
COPUS, the Coalition of Private University Students, was a financial aid advocacy group that was formed in the mid 1970s when a coalition of college students across the country joined together to address financial aid issues. The group's immediate goals in the 1970s were to uphold the gains that middle- and low-income students made during the 1960s. Exclusionary economics in the 1970s made it more difficult for these students to afford high priced state schools and independent schools. Thus COPUS became active throughout campuses to make sure the goals of the 1960s were upheld through the 1970's. Their activism became more involved in government policy towards the late 1970s through the mid 1980s.
In 1983, while President Ronald Reagan was in office, billions in federal funds were cut for financial aid for students attending private universities. In response, COPUS began to apply political pressure to oppose the budget cut. This cut threatened enrollment in private universities and students felt that they had a right to federal aid to private universities if qualified. Students sought to halt the budget cut so as to reinstate eligibility of lower income students to attend private universities.
COPUS members at Wesleyan University were particularly passionate about the subject of aid-blind admissions and federal financial aid because of the social-activist history at Wesleyan. The curriculum, resources, and ideology of Wesleyan, as well as the diversity of its student population, had all been reshaped in the 1960s. COPUS members believed that if federal financial aid were to cease to exist, it would compromise the ideal of Wesleyan University as a diverse place for higher learning. This threat, along with the fact that many students studying at the time were being directly affected by this policy, caused Wesleyan students to become very concerned with the federal financial aid budget cuts.
In 1982 and 1983, hundreds of Wesleyan students participated in rallies in Washington, D.C. on National Student Lobbying Day. These rallies were considered successful, yet the budget cut was still under consideration. Wesleyan COPUS members gained support from both Wesleyan faculty and Democratic senators and representatives. Supporters of COPUS called for their elected representatives to lobby for the cause on behalf of students. The group was so involved in lobbyist activities, they even wrote to President Reagan himself At a rally in front of Davenport Campus Center, COPUS members displayed photos in the year book in which they had stamped withdrawn for financial reasons over the faces of students who were not able to graduate due to financial aid cuts. A copy of this yearbook was sent directly to President Reagan to emphasize that the future of higher education was at stake.
The Conversational Club was formed in 1862 by the faculty of Wesleyan University to discuss topics of interest along with other Middletown residents. Meetings typically included dinner, a paper delivered by a club member, followed by discussion. Meetings rotated among the homes of the club members. Topics included world events, scientific and literary topics, philosophy, and anything else of general interest. The membership of the club was all male until 1987.
Founded as a men's college in 1831, Wesleyan University went through two phases of coeducation, the first of which lasted from 1872 to 1909, and the second from 1970 to the present. The 1872 decision to admit women resulted partly from Wesleyan's concession, as a Methodist institution, to the well-established Methodist practice of educating men and women together. In addition, seven other New England institutions had initiated proposals to coeducate in 1871, which may have encouraged Wesleyan to do the same. These proposals, while not formally coordinated, all came in response to the women's suffrage movement of the early 1870s.
Wesleyan's first female class had four members: Jennie Larned, Phebe Almeda Stone, Angie Villette Warren, and Hannah Ada Taylor. From 1872 until 1892, women represented a small minority of the undergraduate community, and only forty-three women graduated in that period. However, female admissions increased in 1898, which led to a decrease in male admissions; this development fueled the fears of those who believed that the presence of women at Wesleyan would curtail opportunities for male students.
The shift away from coeducation was sparked by a change in the leadership of the trustees. Trustee Stephen Henry Olin led Wesleyan's movement away from Methodism and its redefinition as a metropolitan-based university, with a heavy emphasis on athletics. This shift would align Wesleyan more closely with the values of all-male institutions such as Amherst, Williams and Yale.
From 1900 onward, the decline in Wesleyan's overall admissions contributed to the movement against coeducation, as many feared that the college had become too "feminized." Starting in 1900, the admission of women was capped at 20 percent, but this measure never fully reassured coeducation's opponents. The trustees' decision to end coeducation in 1909 came as the culmination of a decades-long backlash against the 1872 decision. Last-ditch efforts to found a separate college for women gained momentum in 1907, but they failed to generate the necessary revenue, and the effort was eventually abandoned. Under the leadership of alumna Elizabeth C. Wright, class of 1897, a committee was formed to consider other options. This effort eventuated in the founding of Connecticut College for Women, which opened in New London, Connecticut, in 1915.
The Natural History Society was organized 18 April 1836 as a predominantly undergraduate organization for the investigation and promotion of various departments of natural science. The original constitution and by-laws were adopted in April 1836 and were revised 29 May 1841. The constitution provided for the election of officers at an annual meeting of the society: President, Vice President, Corresponding Secretary (always a faculty member), Recording Secretary, and Curator/Librarian. Members were designated as Resident (students of Wesleyan and residents of Middletown); Corresponding (students who had graduated); Honorary (elected if deemed worthy, for their attainments in Natural Science); and Faculty (ex-officio resident members). It was voted at the second meeting of the society (26 April 1836) to include juniors in the ranks of members, and at the meeting of 18 August 1840, the society voted to amend the constitution to include freshmen and sophomores.
In order to collect money for a treasury, it was decided at the meeting of 25 August 1836 that A tax of 12 1/2 cents was levied on each of the members to defray certain incidental expenses. Whenever extra money was needed, a similar tax was voted upon by the society.
Although the society was originally known as the Natural History Society of the Wesleyan University, its name was changed (apparently not in a formal way, i.e., no evidence of a vote by members) to the Cuvierian Society, presumably after Baron Georges Léopold Chrétien Frédéric Dagobert Cuvier (1769-1832), French zoologist and geologist, a founder of comparative anatomy and paleontology. The first evidence of a name change is seen in the minutes of the meeting of 30 September 1837: A regular meeting of the Natural History Society, alias Cuvierian Society was held this day. After this date it was always referred to as the Cuvierian Society in the meeting minutes. Both versions of the constitution refer to it as the Cuvierian Society.
The last minutes in this record book are for the meeting of 30 May 1846. Essayists were appointed to speak at the next meeting, but it is not known if any further meetings were held.
At each monthly meeting, essays on some aspect of science were expected to be read to the society by members who had been chosen at the previous meeting. Many, however, were not prepared with essays, prompting a resolution at the meeting of 14 November 1838, that persons having essays to write and failing in the duties devolving upon them shall be fined 25 cents each. Even this stern measure apparently did little to motivate the appointed essayists; recording secretary B. F. Mudge, in the minutes for 26 February 1842, editorialized somewhat on the situation: Essayists upon being called upon were found deficient as usual. Some of the topics of the papers included Phrenology; Grasshoppers and Locusts; The Bee; Salt; Coal Formations; Eels; and The Hummingbird. Local natural phenomena were also discussed at meetings: e.g., the Great Comet of 1843 (25 March and 24 April 1843), a locust colony (27 May 1843), and a bald eagle lately taken in Meriden (27 July 1844).
An address to the Society on the subject of natural science on 31 July 1838 by William H. Allen, professor of chemistry and experimental philosophy in Dickinson College, was printed in New York in 1838.
The Cuvierian Society maintained a cabinet and, later, a room, to hold various specimens which the members had collected or which had been donated. The minutes of 25 August 1836 read: A rattlesnake was received and a vote of thanks returned to the donor H. W. Smith. Also a Shark's Skeleton. It was noted on 19 May 1837 that the society was given the use of the room over the labratory [sic] for the preservation and exhibition of their collections and specimens in Nat. His., as long as none of the specimens were removed from the University. It was also understood that the collection would be donated to the University in the event that the Cuvierian Society should cease to exist; the collection eventually became part of the Museum in Judd Hall.
Several non-students had a great influence on the Cuvierian Society. Professor John Johnston served as corresponding secretary for most of the society's existence, and was elected president at the meeting of 25 July 1845. Prof. Johnston was an active participant at nearly every meeting. Dr. Joseph Barratt of Middletown was elected an honorary member of the society 8 June 1836. The minutes of 19 September 1836 read, It was . . . voted that the thanks of this society be presented through the corresponding secretary to Dr. Barratt for the interest he has taken in behalf of said society. Dr. Barratt was also an active member, delivering essays or papers and making remarks on various topics of natural science at many meetings. He was elected president 29 June 1844, and served until the election of Prof. Johnston. Augustus Smith, professor of mathematics and astronomy, 1831-1857, was also involved in the society during its last years.
Joseph Cummings was the fifth president of Wesleyan University and its first alumnus to serve as president. He was born on March 3, 1817 in Falmouth County, Maine. Cummings attended Wesleyan University, graduating with highest honors in 1840. He taught mathematics and natural science at Amenia Seminary in New York for three years, serving as its principal for three more years before resigning to become a Methodist minister. In 1851, after seven years of preaching, Cummings was chosen president of Genesee College in Lima, New York (later to become Syracuse University). He was elected president of his alma mater, Wesleyan, in 1857, but only commenced his term in 1858, as he was unwilling to so abruptly leave Genesee. Cummings' Wesleyan presidency spanned the Civil War, during which 133 students left Wesleyan to join the Union Army, and several others left to join the Confederate Army. Despite this disruption, Cummings supervised the construction of several buildings, including Rich Library (now the Patricelli '92 Theatre), Memorial Chapel, and Orange Judd Hall. He also enlarged the school's curriculum - particularly in the natural sciences - and oversaw the admission of women, a policy maintained until 1909. However, the 1873 depression inhibited some of Cummings' attempts at expansion, provoking tension between Cummings and the trustees, which led to his 1875 resignation. He stayed on campus as head of the department of philosophy for two years before leaving to preach once more. In 1881, he was elected president of Northwestern University. He died May 7, 1890.
The Continental Vocalists was a successful and popular band of four members, all Americans and natives of Connecticut. It is strongly believed that all group members had musical training, played instruments and sang. They toured the country singing pure music and were well received every place without regard to population, politics or religious beliefs. One member of the group, J. Wesley Smith, began performing as a young boy with his family as part of the Smith Family in 1840. Mr. Smith organized a company which he styled the American Vocalists. Mr. Smith receives credit for having first advanced the project of a Continental Band, to represent, in costume, the Patriots of 1776, while performing National music.
W.D. Franklin was born November 25, 1825, in Brooklyn, Connecticut and studied music at the Boston Teachers Institute. He taught guitar, violin, violoncello, and voice for eight years before helping to found the Continental Vocalists quartet. Franklin married Mary Barrett on September 4, 1843. Mrs. Franklin opened a millinery in the 1870s at 54 Broad St., Middletown, CT.
The Continental Vocalists first trip commenced September 1, 1853 and collected $5,503 in receipts. Members of the Continental Vocalists for the first two trips included: C.W. Huntington, New London, Conn.; W.D. Franklin, Norwich, Conn.; W.R. Frisbie, Branford, Conn.; J.W. Smith, South Glastenbury, Conn.; and J.A. Sterry, Agt., Norwich, Conn. The second trip ended May 29, 1855, when at Jamestown, Frisbie was bleeding at the lungs and they started immediately for home where he died July 9, 1855. The group continued to tour with a replacement of Frisbee. The Financial Journal gives a detailed account of the band's daily events from 1853 through 1857.
Married Faith Merriman, 1926. 3 children: Alice Marshall (b.1927), Mary Augusta Merriman (b.1930), and Faith Barbara (b.1932). Married Marjorie Suzanne Rice, 1959. Died September 27, 1967.
Chronology List
October 23, 1899 Daltry was born in Heckmondwick, Yorkshire, England.
1918-1929 Organist, chorus and orchestra director, Wesleyan University
1929 Associate of the Royal College of Organists, London
1929-1931 Associate Professor of Music at Wesleyan University
1931 Received an MA from Wesleyan University. Was a member of Phi Beta Kappa.
1931-1967 Professor of Music at Wesleyan University
1933 Fellow of the American Guild of Organists
1933-1937 President of the New England College Glee Club Association
1940-1941 Lyric Opera Company
1946 Author, Basic Musicianship
1949-1950 President of the College Music Association
1953-1962 Director of the Summer School, Wesleyan University
1967 Died in Haddam, Connecticut
William Butler Davis was born in Middletown, Connecticut, on September 27, 1871 and died on November 16, 1937, in Old Saybrook, Connecticut. He attended Wesleyan University where he earned his bachelor of philosophy in 1894. He then attended Trinity College where he earned his bachelor of music degree in 1918. Most of his life was focused on music: from 1894 to 1927, Davis was the choirmaster and organist of The Church of the Holy Trinity in Middletown; from 1908 to 1928, director of the Glee Club; from 1892 to 1917, an instructor in church music at the Berkeley Divinity School of Yale University; and in 1917, he was the music instructor at Middletown High School. In 1907, Davis along with fellow Wesleyan alumnus, Kenneth Goode, class of 1904, wrote a comic opera called The Girl and the Graduate. It was first performed locally in 1907 and later performed at the Berkley Theater in New York City to a standing-room only audience. Davis never married, but he was very involved in his teaching, especially while teaching at Middletown High School, where each year, he would chose two students whom he would sponsor for four years at Wesleyan. In 1928, Davis moved out of Middletown to Old Saybrook, but continued to teach at Middletown High School until he died.
Chronology List
September 24, 1918 Emilio Quincy Daddario born, Newton Center, Massachusetts
1934 Graduated from Tilton (New Hampshire) Academy
1934-1935 Attended Newton (Mass.) Country Day School
1935-1939 Attended Wesleyan University. In college Daddario studied under such politically active professors as E. E. Schattschneider and Wilbert Snow. He majored in government, was a member of Eclectic House, and active in extra-curricular affairs. Daddario played varsity football at Wesleyan for three years and broke or established most of the team's modern day records with his broken field running and drop-kicking ability. He was captain of the football team as a senior. He twice won the C. Everett Bacon award for outstanding athletic ability, which included three years as a varsity shortstop on the baseball team. Later, to pay his way through law school, Daddario played professional football with the Providence Steamrollers and the Hartford Blues, the latter as captain, star and coach. He also coached the Wethersfield State Prison football team. In 1963 he was named to the Sports Illustrated Silver Anniversary All-America Award for college players who have achieved success in their lives since. In 1964 his early athletic exploits were honored by Connecticut Sportwriters' Gold Key Award.
1939-1942 Daddario attended Boston University Law School for two years, 1939-1941. He then transferred to the University of Connecticut Law School for the final year and received the LL.B. degree in June 1942.
1940 Married Berenice Carbo of Middletown, October 20, 1940.
1942- Daddario passed both the Connecticut and Massachusetts Bar Examinations and began the practice of law in Middletown in the summer of 1942. His office was in the Middletown Savings Building, 164 Court Street. In 1953, he moved his practice to Hartford.
1943-1945 Daddario enlisted in the United States Army in February 1943, and was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services in the Mediterranean Theatre. Entering as a private he underwent intensive training for ten months and eventually served with partisans in Italy, behind the lines. For remarkable service during the war, he was awarded the U.S. Legion of Merit and the Italian Medaglio d'Argento medals. This brief description of his exploits documents this aspect of his career: But it remained for a 24-year-old OSS officer who had infiltrated into Milan to top all these other exploits by waging a brief but highly successful war of his own. During the last five days of the Italian campaign, this one man task-force, Captain Emilio Q. Daddario of Boston, Mass., maneuvered single-handed the surrender of the Nazi S. S. Headquarters at Villa Locatelli in Cenobbio; arranged with the German General in command at Como to confine his troops to the barracks of Italy, made a prisoner of Marshal Graziani, Chief of the Italian Fascist Army as well as Generals Bonomi and Sorrentino and other leaders who were to be turned over to Allied intelligence.
This last proved to be a ticklish business. The bodies of Mussolini and other prominent Fascists were dangling upside down in the main square of Milan, and the frenzied populace demanded Graziani as well. But Captain Daddario had orders from Allied Headquarters to bring Graziani back alive. Somehow he managed to spirit his prize prisoner out of Milan. Several times the OSS party was under fire from excited Italian Partisans; the car which was assigned to the Marshal was dynamited and an OSS lieutenant badly wounded, but Graziani was delivered intact.
1946-1948 Daddario was nominated by the Democratic Town Committee to run for mayor of Middletown and was elected on October 8, 1946. His vote was 4,686 over the Republican Salvatore T. Cubeta's total of 4,306. Cubeta had served as mayor for two terms. Middletown's population in 1940 was 26,495 and rose in 1950 to 29,711. Members of the Common Council during the Daddario administration were four Republican holdovers from the 1944 election (Rosindo Amato, C. Marsden Bacon, Joseph P. Chester and A. Pickett Hull) and five Democrats elected in 1946 (Herbert C. F. Bell, William J. Scanlon, Irving R. Segal, Fiorie DeToro, and Leo Zieller). Daddario assumed office as Middletown's 64th mayor on October 10, 1946 and at age 28 he was the youngest mayor in Connecticut history. Although the office was then considered a part-time position that enabled, or obliged, the officeholder to continue other private employment, Mayor Daddario's administration was a highly active one: the water system was restructured, new parks added, low cost housing built, and collective bargaining for city employees instituted. Mayor Daddario's efforts in reforming the school system in Middletown have been recalled by Wilbert Snow: We ran him for the office of Mayor in October 1946 and while Mayor, he did me one favor I have never ceased to be grateful for. In Middletown we had not one but two School Boards, one a City Board for the four square miles within the city, and one a Town Board, for the 44 square miles outside the city limits. For eleven years I was chairman of the Town Board. The teachers in the City schools, operating under a special state charter, were receiving from two to four hundred dollars a year more than the teachers in the Town School District, even though they ate in the same restaurants and shopped in the same stores. I acquainted my former student with the disparity and he saw to it that the salaries were equalized.
In September, 1948 Mayor Daddario announced that he had informed a nominating committee of the Democratic Town Committee that I would not seek reelection in the coming city election due to the obligations which I owe my family and business. (The Middletown Press, September 13, 1948) He praised the new Democratic slate headed by a Wesleyan University Professor of History, Herbert C. F. Bell, who was subsequently elected to succeed Daddario as mayor.
1949-1950 E. Q. Daddario was appointed by the Governor of Connecticut to be Judge of the Municipal Court of Middletown. The Middletown Court was in a class with larger cities of the state and had civil jurisdiction not exceeding $1,000 and criminal jurisdiction not exceeding penalty of $400 fine, or imprisonment for one year or both. Small claims jurisdiction was $100 or less [Conn. Gen. Stat., Rev. 1949, Chapters 4 and 377, and Sec. 92]. During his brief tenure, Daddario was elected Vice President of the Assembly of Municipal Court Judges (Conn. State Register and Manual, 1950, p. 203). Daddario resigned his judgeship when recalled military duty in the Korean War.
1950-1952 After World War II Daddario had continued reserve service in the National Guard in the 43rd Infantry Division located in Connecticut. This division was activated soon after the outbreak of war in Korea in June 1950. Daddario served as a major with the Far East Liaison Group in Korea and Japan.
1952- Resumed legal practice in Hartford, Connecticut as partner in firm of Daddario, Burns, Eddy, & Slitt.
1952- Memberships: Trustee and member of Alumni Council, Wesleyan University. University of Connecticut Law School Alumni Association. Theta Nu Epsilon. Phi Nu Theta. Knights of Columbus. Elks Club. Member of Board of Directors, Long Lane School in Middletown, Middlesex Hospital in Middletown. Member of Board of Regents, University of Hartford, Member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
1958 Elected as Democratic Member of the United States House of Representatives from the First District of Connecticut in November. Took office on January 7, 1959 when the 86th Congress began.
1959-1971 Under the original Constitutional Apportionment in 1788 the state legislature established the First Congressional District in the center of Connecticut with Hartford as its focus. This has continued to this day through numerous reapportionments and redistricting actions. Originally the House had 65 members, 5 from Connecticut. Since 1930 Connecticut has had 6 seats in a 435 member House of Representatives. The District was changed slightly during Representative Daddario's tenure and does not embrace all of Hartford County. Towns included in the First District: Bloomfield, East Hartford, East Windsor, Glastonbury, Hartford, Manchester, Marlborough, Newington, Rocky Hill, South Windsor, West Hartford, Wethersfield, and Windsor. Its population in 1960 was 422,766; in 1970, 505,418.
1959-1970 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN CONGRESS: Daddario sought and won membership on the House Committee on Science and Astronautics in January 1959 and served continuously on this committee until the end of his service in December 1970.
When the Subcommittee on Science, Research, and Development was created in 1963, Daddario became its first chairman. During his chairmanship, the Subcommittee covered a wide range of topics in trying "to develop a capacity for detecting well in advance some of the Nation's problems involving science and technology." Topics covered during the first eight years of the Subcommittee included federal science policy, federal research and development programs, aeronautics, science education, the National Science Foundation, science information systems and handling, standard reference data, environmental quality, fire research, technology assessment, management of federal scientific activities, international science, and systems studies.
Daddario's Subcommittee colleagues changed over time. Among its members besides himself were John W. Davis (D-Georgia), Joe D. Waggonner (D-Louisiana), George E. Brown, Jr. (D-California), Earle Cabell (D-Texas), Bertram L. Podell (D-New York), James W. Symington (D-Missouri), Alphonzo Bell (R-California), Charles A. Mosher (R-Ohio), D. E. (Buz)Lukens (R-Ohio), and Larry Wynn, Jr. (R-Kansas).
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION: The Subcommittee held numerous hearings into national policy regarding scientific research and development (R&D). Reports were issued on government research and development expenditures and on the geographic distribution among the states of federal research grants in 1964. The National Science Foundation (NSF) was under intensive scrutiny, and the Subcommittee was responsible for hearings on appropriations to the NSF. In March 1966, Daddario issued a bill modifying the NSF's organizational structure and scope, based on the Subcommittee report issued in the previous December. That bill became law in July 1966 [An Act to Amend the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, 82 Stat. 360]. By 1970, the Subcommittee recommended and acquired for the NSF a budget of $477,605,000 [National Science Foundation Authorization Act, 1970, 83 Stat. 203]. The Subcommittee then proposed a bill for the "collection, compilation, critical evaluation, publication, and dissemination of standard reference data" through the Secretary of Commerce. This bill, which authorized $1.86 million for fiscal 1969 became law [Standard Reference Data Act, 82 Stat. 339]. In 1969, Congress approved an authorization of $6 million for a standard reference data system in the National Bureau of Standards [Standard Reference Data Act - Appropriations, 83 Stat. 273].
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY: Hearings on the state of the environment and the ability of technology to save it were held in 1966, and the Subcommittee called a joint House-Senate "colloquium to discuss congressional strategy." From this came a report, "Congressional White Paper on a National Policy for the Environment," which was later incorporated into the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [83 Stat. 852].
FIRE RESEARCH AND SAFETY: Daddario's Subcommittee of the Science and Astronautics Committee held hearings in May of 1967 on fire research and safety program appropriations. Their proposed bill was altered by the Congress, but eventually authorized $5 million for research [Fire Research and Safety Act of 1969, 82 Stat. 34]
TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT: One of the more active roles Daddario played was in the proposal to establish a Technology Assessment Board. Its purpose was to provide a method for identifying, assessing, publicizing, and dealing with the implications and effects of applied research and technology [U.S., Congress, House, Congressional Record, vol. 113, p. 5748]. A seminar on technology assessment resulted in continued hearings by the Subcommittee into that area before any legislation could be drawn up. Three special studies were requested from the Legislative Reference Service, the National Academy of Sciences, and the National Academy of Engineering. A fourth report, made by the National Academy of Public Information dealt with administrative facets of technology assessment in the Executive Branch. A report from the Science Policy Research Division of the Library of Congress (April 1969), a report by the American Association for the Advancement of Science on ecological effects of chemical defoliants in Vietnam, and a crucial meeting in February, 1969 of the Panel on Science and Technology paved the way for H.R. 17046, a bill introduced by Congressmen Daddario and Mosher (R-Ohio). Subsequently, the Technology Assessment Act of 1972 was adopted to establish an Office of Technology Assessment for the Congress as an aid in the identification and consideration of existing and probable impacts of technological application. [Public Law 92-484; 86 Stat. 797]. The official legislative history of the Technology Assessment Act of 1972 states the following: The House Committee on Science and Astronautics provided early leadership in designing this proposed institution, and its Subcommittee on Science, Research, and Development, under the chairmanship of Emilio Q. Daddario and later John W. Davis, created a substantial literature on the subject. [Senate Report No. 92-1123, in U.S. Code Congressional and Administrative News, 1972, p. 5195].
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT: The Subcommittee on Science, Research, and Development also recommended that greater use be made of federal laboratories. In a related area, the Subcommittee heard reports and testimony on the federal governments organization of scientific activities. On April 15, 1970, Representative Daddario transmitted to Chairman Miller a report recommending certain centralizations of federal science responsibilities [Summary of Activities, p. 70]. The report recommended establishment of the National Institutes of Research and Advanced Studies (NIRAS), strengthening of the science superstructure in the President's office, promotion of the funding of academic science and higher education, continuation of support to research, and consolidation of congressional committees' jurisdiction dealing with research and education at the graduate level in all fields of learning. Daddario also served as Chairman of a select subcommittee to review patent provisions of the Space Act [72 Stat. 426].
THE INTERPARLIAMENTARY UNION: Congressman Daddario and Senator Philip A. Hart of Michigan served as the two United States Representatives to the Interparliamentary Union Council. Mr. Daddario was the single American member of the Interparliamentary Executive Committee. [Officers of the United States Group for each Congress are listed in the Congressional Directory.] Founded in 1889 by the representatives from the parliaments of nine European and North American countries, the Interparliamentary Union now represents 75 nations around the world, including Communist governments. Currently, the IPU is concerned with research and prevention of world conflicts, and the establishment of a durable international peace. The IPU began efforts in 1965 to arrange negotiations to end the war in Vietnam. [For the Statutory basis for participation in the Interparliamentary Union by the United States Congress, see 49 Stat. 425, 22 U.S.C. 276.]
1970 In June 1970 the Connecticut Democratic State Convention nominated Daddario to be its candidate for governor. He was defeated in the November general election by Thomas J. Meskill, Republican, by a vote of 572, 505 to 492, 037. Meskill thus obtained 53.8 percent of the vote while Daddario had 46.2 percent.
1971 Daddario named vice president of the Gulf and Western Corporation, a conglomerate, in Manchester, Connecticut and Washington, D.C. His particular job is to develop new scientific programs and determine new sites for Gulf and Western operations. He also resumed his law practice in Hartford.
The Davison Art Center, housed in the 1839 Alsop House, comprises exhibition galleries, classrooms, offices, and the university’s collection of prints and photographs. The building was acquired by Wesleyan in 1949 and has been used by the university as the Davison Art Center since 1952.
A gift from George W. Davison ’1892 allowed the building’s renovation to take place. Davison, a book and print collector, began giving parts of his collection of prints to the university in 1937. The original collection was housed in the Davison Art Rooms in Olin Library before forming the core collection of the Davison Art Center. After Davison’s death in 1953, Wesleyan has continued to add to its holdings of prints and has included photography as an additional collecting focus.
Der Deutsche Verein, or The German Club, was a student organization at Wesleyan whose purpose was to promote the learning and application of the German language. The members were students with a high level of German, generally past the second level or higher. Membership was limited to 25 members at a time, and members were required to be highly active and pay dues. They held elections and elected officers for various posts including president, vice-president, and secretary. They held regular meetings on the first and third Saturday of every month of the school year around 7:00 pm.
Their gatherings (Sitzungen) frequently included meals, and very often they were accompanied by faculty and students reading essays, stories, and poems written in German, of all academic subjects, and pertaining to German Studies, such as travels in Germany, and post-war era topics. They also held a yearly Christmas party (Weihnachtsfest) on December 8 with a large feast, gifts, singing, and readings of verses and poetry.
The organization that became Delta Tau Delta was started by fourteen members of the classes of 1893 and 1894 as a non-secret literary society. It was founded in the fall of 1891 and was known as the Phi Rho Literary Society. Phi Rho initially called itself a non-fraternity society with the aim of constituting a brotherhood and cultivating the art of public speaking. The society acquired its first house in 1893 and officially adopted the name Phi Rho. Written records of Phi Rho begin in 1895 and at that point, the society was made up of twenty-five men from the classes of 1895 to 1898. The society was organized with a constitution and by-laws; it was a literary and debating club made up of non-fraternity men, and although it had some characteristics of a fraternity, such as colors (lavender and apple green), it was not yet a college fraternity. At the very beginning of the 20th century (1903), the Phi Rho Literary Society finally established itself as the Gamma Zeta chapter of the national fraternity of Delta Tau Delta, although very little changed. By 1905, the public speaking aspect of the society all but disappeared. The fraternity was located, at various times, in eight different houses all over the Wesleyan campus, with the last being 156 High Street (which as of 2008 houses Wes Wings). Between 1970 and 1978, the chapter was not affiliated with the national organization, but rejoined the national organization for its last few years in existence on the Wesleyan campus. The last active chapter of Delta Tau Delta left in 1989.
A College of Social Studies major in the class of 1990, Kirsten Delegard was one of only 5 women in her CSS class. As she notes in her thesis, and as many have noted before and since, CSS is a notoriously male-dominated major in terms of both student population and core theorists-though there are arguments to be made about the increasingly equal distribution of its professorship. As she writes in the introduction to her thesis, her experience as part of a marginal group influenced her decision to write a thesis about the experiences of women throughout the second period of coeducation at Wesleyan, which began in 1968. She wrote that she "felt inhibited, discouraged, and frustrated as a woman in a program pervaded by both blatant and subtle sexism." She offers several anecdotes that illustrate this experience.
"In classes and department social events professors and undergraduates used sexist language and humor that patronized, demeaned, and objectified women students. In classes where aggressive debate characterized discussion, women were more often interrupted, ridiculed for their comments, and ignored by male undergraduates and professors. While I succeeded academically, my confidence in my abilities was undermined by sexist comments. One professor told me, 'I think you did not do well in my class because women think differently, women can't understand power,' while another said he was surprised to find a woman excelling."
Because of her experience, she felt compelled to examine how women at Wesleyan have dealt at various periods with being a traditionally marginalized group. Based primarily on the results to the surveys, which are included in the collection and described in detail below, Delegard wrote her senior thesis for CSS, titled "Mixed Memories: Reflections On Twenty-Two Years of Coeducation at Wesleyan."
Since graduating from Wesleyan, Delegard received her Masters and PhD in history from Duke University. She currently works as a public historian in her hometown of Minneapolis, Minnesota, and is noted for creating the Historyapolis Project, which is meant to "make the history of [Minneapolis] accessible," given what Delegard sees as the city's blindness to its tumultuous past and its discomfort with confronting it. The project "seeks to produce a new book-length history of the city," and to "catalyze community dialogue around some of the most challenging aspects of local history."
In 2012, Delegard published her first full-length work-Battling Miss Bolsheviki: The Origins of Female Conservatism in the United States. In the book, Delegard explores why once-respected female reformers lost authority after women won the right to vote, and argues that female conservatives pushed out these reformers with anti-radical agendas. Delegard has also been involved in the writing and editing of several other academic texts, and at time of writing is working on a new history of Minneapolis under the Historyapolis project.
The Dean of the College is responsible for addressing campus issues related to students, including academics, activities, diversity, health, and on-campus residences.
Reverend Holden Dwight, son of Daniel and Susan Lippiett Dwight was born on August 28, 1810. After graduating from Wesleyan University in 1835, Dwight moved to Georgia where he opened a private school and became a school teacher. After a year of teaching, he was forced to shut down his school in Columbus, Georgia due to improper facilities and as he states, because the city was entirely destitute of literary character. Dwight then departed Columbus, Georgia, on December 30, 1837, and moved to his new home of New Orleans, Louisiana. With the help of a Mr. Hamilton, a leader of the local Methodist Church, Dwight was able to establish another school. Unfortunately, Dwight was forced to close his school on May 29, 1838, whereupon he was appointed as a missionary in the third municipality of New Orleans. Dwight did successfully open a Sunday school in this area, but then left after two months in order to tutor Judge McGehee's children in Woodville, Mississippi. After two months of working in Woodville, Dwight took his leave from the family and traveled to Jackson, Louisiana, where he was appointed to the Preparatory Department in the College of Louisiana on October 15, 1838.
On June 13th, 1839 Dwight married Almena Marietta Pelton in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. In the latter half of 1839, he was appointed a deacon of the Methodist Church. Around January 1, 1840, Dwight left the College of Louisiana and took up residence in Clinton, Mississippi where he and his wife opened a private academy. Unfortunately, both Dwight and his wife were struck with serious illnesses leaving no one else to run the school. On December 13, 1840 Dwight's first son, Edward Champion Dwight, was born. Other children were Wilbur Fisk (born February 6, 1843), Susan Eliza (September 13, 1844), and Dwight (July 9, 1847) On January 1, 1841, Dwight was the elected principal of the Preparatory Department of Centenary College in Jackson, Mississippi, but this position eventually fell through. Dwight was then forced to travel north in search of employment. After a month of searching, Dwight was able to find a position in the department of natural science of Norwalk Seminary in Ohio. After three years at Norwalk as a teacher of languages, Dwight was appointed principal of Baldwin Institute at Berea, Ohio. Holden Dwight passed away on November 24, 1846 at the age of 36.
The EQV freshman rushing booklet of 1961 states: . . . In rushing we are not hindered by any discriminatory provision; rather our criterion for selection is based upon obtaining in EQV a diversity of personalities, talents, and interests.
The Wesleyan fraternity EQV was formed in September 1959 when Wesleyan's Phi Gamma chapter of Alpha Chi Rho (AXP) voted to withdraw from their national organization. This move was the result of discrepancies between AXP's exoteric, or external manual, and its esoteric manual, describing the oaths to be taken by pledges during their initiation. AXP had been founded in 1895 as a Christian fraternity. In 1954 the national organization changed the language of the exoteric manual from . . . membership from among Christians only to a requirement that members respect Jesus of Nazareth as their moral exemplar. The esoteric manual, however, kept the original language. For that reason, members of Wesleyan's Phi Gamma chapter chose to withdraw from the national organization. EQV stands for Esse Quam Videri, which is Latin for to be, rather than to seem.
EQV was supported by many Phi Gamma alumni who voted to change the by-laws to allow Wesleyan to lease, and eventually own the AXP building at 300 High St. EQV remained there until the fall of 1965. By this time, AXP had successfully petitioned the administration to return to campus and reclaim their house. EQV now needed a new home. For the 1965-1966 year, they lived in the dormitories on Lawn Avenue, and in September 1966 they moved into the John Wesley House at 343 High Street. The group may have lost momentum following a house fire in early December 1967. EQV disbanded in the spring of 1968.
What would come to be called WESU began in 1939 when two students living in Clark Hall connected a transmitter to a phonograph and began broadcasting 78 rpm records. To provide a signal to other buildings, they extended ran their antenna wire though the utility tunnels which connected the buildings. The station quickly became a campus fixture, broadcasting throughout the Middletown area in the early 1940's on an AM signal with the under the call letters WES. In 1950, updated Federal Communications Commission law granted the station its four-letter WESU. In 1965, sophomore Mark Estren became general manager. During his three-year tenure, WESU enjoyed phenomenal success, with the staff increasing from 8 to over 150. The station received several national spotlights, including several on-air endurance marathons by DJ Jeffrey Taylor, and was showcased as the December 1967 "Station of the Month" in the magazine College Radio.
The Mark Estren Papers collection consists of Estren's collection of WESU program guides from 1961 to 1968 and a collection of news items and press releases from his time as general manager. Estren also served as music director, program director, and a member of the WESU board of directors. He graduated in 1968.
In 1868, when this collection of examinations begins, there were only 148 students enrolled at Wesleyan University. By 1970, the end date of this collection, the student enrollment was up to 1,393 students and the school had been admitting women for two years. In the latter part of the 19th century, the curriculum was a very different format than what it became by the late 1960s. In the 1860s, the courses for the students were pre-planned each term according to their academic focus. There were requirements for admission to the university in Latin, Greek, Mathematics, and English, although if students wished to only take literary and scientific courses, they did not have to be familiar with Latin and Greek. There was a general course of study that included languages, mathematics, various sciences, government, philosophy, and history. There was also a scientific course of study offered with more focus on the sciences and fewer courses in Latin and Greek. Later in the 19th century, a student could chose among the classical course in which he or she earned a bachelor of arts, the Latin-scientific course in which he or she earned a bachelor of philosophy, and the scientific course in which he or she earned a bachelor of science.
Beginning in the early 20th century, new departments were established and students were able to choose courses among the different departments. The departments included Latin, Greek, Hebrew, German, romance languages, English literature, English language, public speaking, history, economics and social science, philosophy, psychology, ethics and religion, mathematics, physics, astronomy, chemistry, geology, biology, physical education, military science and tactics, and the required freshman course, fundamentals of student life. The departments were divided into three categories or divisions which still exist today: arts and humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences and math. Students were and are still required to take courses in all three divisions of the curriculum in order to ensure a well rounded liberal education. By the mid-20th century, several departments were added to include art, classics (a combination of the Latin and Greek departments), music, philosophy and ethics, and religion. More departments were added to the curriculum following World War II, including Chinese, theater, and Russian. In the 1961-1962 catalog, the section on the background and history of the university states that the years since the end of World War II have been characterized by self-study and controlled experimentation seeking ways in which to make liberal education more meaningful and vital to each student. By this point, the College of Letters and the College of Social Sciences (also known as the Public Affairs Program) had been established. With the exception of a few additional departments, the curriculum has remained similar to what it became in the early 1960s.
The Financial Planning Committee (FPC), a faculty-student body created under faculty by-laws, was formed in about 1968. It was composed of 6 faculty members, 4 undergraduate students, and 4 ex-officio administrators. The role of the group was to evaluate administrative proposals related to budgets and allocations, and provide suggestions and recommendations. The FPC also made their recommendations known to the greater campus community through publications like their 1975 FPC Report: A Plan for Financial Stability, which was published as a supplement to the Wesleyan student newspaper, the Argus.
This collection of printed ephemera and subject files about fine presses has been accumulated by Olin Library throughout the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
Willbur Fisk, Wesleyan’s first president, was born on 31 August 1792 and grew up in Brattleboro, Vermont. Although his mother feared that godlessness and sin in schools and colleges would make Fisk too worldly and strangle the spiritual life, Fisk graduated from Brown University in 1815, after also attending Peacham Academy and the University of Vermont. Surprisingly, given his future role at Wesleyan, Fisk was not initially drawn to the Methodist ministry following school. In fact, he struggled with his spiritual purpose at that time, working in law and as a tutor. However, a revelation during a bout of illness brought him to the ministry in 1818, and he devoted the rest of his life to his work as a Methodist. In 1825, Fisk was appointed principal of Wesleyan Academy in Wilbraham, Massachusetts, a preparatory school from which many Wesleyan University students were to be drawn.
Fisk was active within the Methodist Church on a number of issues, including the importance of education, temperance, missionary work, and his opposition to abolitionist movements.
When the decision to found a university in Middletown, Connecticut was made, Fisk was tapped for the role of first president. In his inaugural speech in 1831, he outlined his vision for the university, encapsulated by the statement that Education should be directed in reference to two objects—the good of the individual educated and the good of the world. Fisk was deeply involved in the administrative and curricular decisions of Wesleyan, and raised funds for the new college. He traveled to Europe to study educational institutions and collect scientific equipment in 1835-1836, and also took that time as a break from the stresses of the presidency. Suffering from ill-health his entire life, Fisk finally succumbed on 22 February 1839 while still serving as president.
Willbur Fisk married Ruth Peck on 9 June 1823, and they had one adopted daughter, Martha.
The Wesleyan football team has been in existence since 1883.
 The Wesleyan University Glee Club was first organized in 1846, although the group did not meet regularly until the late 1860s. The Glee Club began to travel in 1862 with a tour beginning in Middletown, Connecticut. The final concert of this tour was held on the summit of Mt. Washington in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. The group began traveling by rail in 1884 on their first tour to Chicago. On the Glee Club's annual tours (often during winter or Easter break), they frequently visited Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Massachusetts. They were the first college glee club to make a phonograph recording in 1890 at the invitation of Thomas Edison. In 1901, they traveled to Washington, D.C. where they were received by President McKinley in the White House. The Glee Club again traveled to the White House in 1928 to meet President Coolidge. In both 1926 and 1927, Wesleyan won the glee club national championship, which was held in Carnegie Hall.
The annual Christmas candlelight concert was first held in the Wesleyan's Memorial Chapel in 1928. From the 1960s until 1972, the concert was performed by both the Glee Club and the Chapel Choir. In 1972, the concert was performed jointly by the Concert Choir and the Chapel Choir, and by 1974, the Concert Choir was the only group that performed at the candlelight concerts. The Glee Club disappeared from campus during the early 1970s.
In the late 1960s, a 1,440 acre wildlife preserve in New Fairfield was willed to Wesleyan University by Walter Gordon Merritt. The land was named Great Hollow and in 1969, Peter Budryk, with the moral support of Murray Durst, created the Great Hollow Wilderness School (GHWS), a sort of combination of Upward Bound and Outward Bound: a wilderness program for disadvantaged youth. After the first year of the program in 1970, Budryk developed a graduate course in the Wesleyan Master of Arts in Teaching program in outdoor education leadership; after a few years, the course was no longer needed as a group of capable GHWS staff were available. In 1973, Budryk was named executive director of the program and was given full responsibility for its development and operation. In 1982, the Wilderness Education Association invited and accredited GHWS to conduct the National Standard Program in Outdoor Leadership Certification.
In 1985, GHWS was given approval to run an optional freshman orientation trip. The first Wesleyan Orientation in the Wilderness (WOW) in 1985 was very successful and the program continued through the 1990s.
 The following biographical sketch of Karl Pomeroy Harrington is taken from the Memorial Minute presented by Professor Homer E. Woodbridge and adopted by the Faculty, November 24, 1953:
The life of Karl Pomeroy Harrington (June 13, 1861-November 14, 1953) has been closely interwoven with the life of Wesleyan and Middletown. His association with Wesleyan may be said to have begun before he was born: his father, Calvin Sears Harrington, was a graduate of the class of 1852. Shortly after Karl's birth in 1861, Calvin Harrington was became Professor Greek at Wesleyan, and for the next twenty-five years served on the faculty, for two years as Professor of Greek, and then as Professor of Latin. Karl Harrington was educated in the Middletown schools and at Wesleyan, graduating with high honors in the class of 1882. After teaching in Westfield and at Wilbraham, he spent two years in study abroad, in Germany, Greece, and Italy, and returned to Wesleyan in 1889 to serve for two years as Tutor in Latin. Another year of graduate study at Yale was followed by professorships of Latin at the University of North Carolina and the University of Maine. In 1905 he return to Wesleyan as the Robert Rich Professor of the Latin Language and Literature. He occupied this chair, formerly his father's, until he was made Professor Emeritus in 1929.
As a Latinist he was deeply interested in the poets: he published an edition of the elegiac poets (1914) and a volume on Catullus and his influence (1923). He was also a pioneer in making medieval Latin available to American students. His anthology of medieval Latin prose and verse (1925) had been recently reprinted at the time of his death.
Harrington interests were not just in the field of classical studies. He was an accomplished musician, a composer, and a hymnologist, who was at least as well known for his work in music as for his Latin scholarship. He composed one of the most popular modern Christmas carols, and also one of the favorite college comic songs. With Carl F. Price, he edited the first six editions of the Wesleyan Song Book and was the editor of several hymnals. For more than a generation he was organist and choir direct of the First Methodist Church in Middletown.
He was also an outdoor man, an athlete, and a mountaineer. He frequently went out into the White Mountains with the "trail gang" maintained by the Appalachian Mountain Club when they were constructing new stretches of trail. This interest is represented among his writings by his Walks and Climbs in the White Mountain (1926) and his editorial work for many years on the White Mountain Guide.
His civic and social interests in the community were many. He founded the Twentieth Century Club, an organization involved with keeping Middletown accessible by railroad. For many years, he was the secretary and moving force in the Conversational Club, a town-and-gown organization which meets informally for dinners and discussions of papers. He was also active in the Apostles Club, contributing papers on a wide variety of subjects. He maintained an interest in the Mystical Seven and in his own fraternity, Psi Upsilon.
Samuel Proal Hatfield was a non-graduate of Wesleyan in the class of 1862. He enlisted as private, 4th Conn. Infantry in 1861. He then served as First Lieutenant, 1st Conn. Heavy Artillery from 1862-64, and later served as major of the same.
Bertha Drew Hartzell was born in Newton Massachusetts to prominent lawyer and Harvard graduate Charles Acton Drew and Harriet Jaquith Drew on July 10, 1876. She attended Radcliffe College, where she was class president and graduated cum laude in 1898. As a young woman she traveled through Europe, and in 1900, while living in Berlin and studying music and German Language, she met the young Artur Rubinstein, who was studying piano there. Artur became quite smitten with her, and she is said to have given him a kiss as his thirteenth birthday present. They became good friends and kept in contact throughout her life. Later, her son Karl kept in somewhat regular contact with Rubenstein as well.
Also while in Europe, she met Rev. Dr. Morton Hartzell. They kept in touch by letter in the first years of the 20th century while she pursued a graduate degree in German studies at Radcliffe and taught for a year at Brookline High School. Though she seems to have had many other suitors, and perhaps even one serious beau around this time, in 1904 she and Morton became engaged and married, which appears to have been very much supported by Bertha's friends and family. In 1905 or 1906, they had their first child who died at nine months of age. In 1906, their son Karl Hartzell was born in Chicago.
Said to be a dynamic personality, the Reverend Hartzell was very ill with bovine tuberculosis—contracted through drinking unpasteurized milk—through much of their marriage, and often preached from a wheelchair. At the recommendation of Morton's doctors, the family moved to Pasadena, California for Morton's health. Bertha is remembered as a dedicated helpmate to him during his declining years. In 1916, Morton Hartzell died in Pasadena, California, and it seems Bertha and Karl quickly returned to Massachusetts. Bertha obtained a degree in library science from Simmons College in 1918, and is said to have received the highest marks ever by a student up to that time. She then went to work as a librarian at the School of Social Work in Boston, and then at Dana Hall School in Wellesley. She later became supervisor of training at the Boston Public Library, where she worked until her retirement in 1946. Karl attended Newton High School and then Wesleyan University, graduating in 1927. In 1935 he married Ann Lomas and they had three boys, two of whom attended Wesleyan. He later remarried in Florida. In Bertha's spare time, she participated in church, music, and library organizations. She died in 1950 in Massachusetts.
The following is an obituary note submitted to Wesleyan University following Herge's death in 2003.
Henry Curtis Herge, 97, who served as Dean of the Rutgers University Graduate School of Education in New Brunswick, New Jersey from 1953 to 1964, died March 8, 2003 of pneumonia. He lived in Fleet Landing, a retirement community in Atlantic Beach, Florida, but he had a home in Middletown, Connecticut from 1943 to 1945.
Dr. Herge began his long career in domestic and international education in 1928 as an English instructor, school principal, and school supervisor in public school systems on Long Island, New York. During World War II, he enlisted in the U.S. Navy and, subsequently, became the Commanding Officer of the Navy College Training Program at Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut, which graduated 6,000 Navy and Marine Corps officers between 1943 and 1945. Just after V-J Day, he became Associate Director of the American Council on Education in Washington, D.C.; and in 1946, he became State Director of Higher Education and Teacher Certification in the Connecticut State Department of Education in Hartford, Connecticut.
In 1953, Dr. Herge accepted the invitation of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, to become Dean and professor of the Graduate School of Education, in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Among his other achievements, Dean Herge spearheaded the funding, design and construction of the building which today houses the Graduate School of Education. He left Rutgers in 1964 for a series of appointments with the Agency for International Development and the Organization of American States in Paraguay, Jamaica, Zambia, Malawi, and Italy, where he assisted in developing teacher training and school management curricula and programs. He returned to Rutgers as a professor in the Graduate School of Education and as the Associate Director of the Rutgers Center for International Studies. He retired in 1975.
Born in Brooklyn, New York, Dr. Herge was the recipient of three degrees at New York University, a Ph.D. at Yale University, and an honorary degree at Wesleyan University. He was the author of Wartime College Training Programs of the Armed Services (1948); The College Teacher (1966); and A Taut and Salty Ship, The V-12 at Wesleyan (1991); and was the author of numerous articles in professional journals. He also served as an adjunct professor of education at Hartford University and Fairfield University, in Connecticut, and at the University of Southern California.
Survivors include his wife of twenty-six years, Alice Wolfgram Herge, of Atlantic Beach, Florida; two sons, J. Curtis Herge, of Potomac Falls, Virginia, and H. Curtis Herge, Jr., of Pittsford, New York; six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Dr. Herge's first wife, Josephine Breen Herge, died in 1975.
[This narrative was written by Leigh Raiford '94, who in 1999 was in her fourth year of the Joint Ph.D. Program in African-American and American Studies at Yale University. Ms. Raiford worked with the Hewlett Diversity Archive in 1998-99. The narrative was revised by the staff of Special Collections & Archives in the summer of 2000.]
The Changing Face of Wesleyan: An Introduction to The Hewlett Diversity Archive
In the summer of 1994, Wesleyan University was chosen as one of 25 public and private U.S. colleges and universities to receive a Pluralism and Unity Grant from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation. This generous grant occasioned a unique and wonderful opportunity to examine and document, celebrate, and critique nearly 170 years of the changing face of Wesleyan. The Hewlett Diversity Archive, one of myriad projects undertaken during the 3-year tenure of the grant, offered students and historians, administrators, and alumni the chance to explore one university's commitment to racial diversity. Indeed, these archives impel us to investigate and make sense of concepts like "diversity," "unity," and "multiculturalism," often used and often misunderstood in the university context. This archive also provides a springboard for envisioning the collective future of Wesleyan University.
The idea for an archive of the history of racial diversity at Wesleyan was conceived by Krishna Winston, Professor of German Studies, Coordinator of the Mellon Minority Undergraduate Fellowship Program, and Coordinator of the Hewlett Project. Along with Monique Sulle, Associate Mellon Program Coordinator and Hewlett Project Associate Coordinator, Professor Winston felt that an archive would be the best and most useful way of cataloguing Wesleyan's vibrant and contentious history of diversity and of preserving the work of the Hewlett Summer Fellows who had culled materials from various university sources in order to document this history.
During the summers of 1995 and 1996, Hewlett Fellows gathered most of the documents and interviews that make up this collection. The 12 Fellows, members of the classes of 1996, '97, '98, and '99, researched various aspects of Wesleyan's history. Their projects included an examination of admission policies over time; of African-American, Latino, Asian and Asian-American, and Native American presence on campus; of student of color protests; of changes in and development of the curriculum; and of the history of the ethno-cultural houses. For their research, the Fellows studied the University archives and the files of the Office of Public Information. They read back issues of the student newspaper, The Argus, and compiled a complete index to all articles concerning racial matters. They also read and compiled a partial index of the student of color publication The Ankh. Under the direction of William Kerr, late Provost and Secretary of the University, the Fellows examined presidential papers as well as committee minutes and reports. They conducted taped interviews with former key administrators, faculty members, and alumni. They collected and catalogued materials produced by students in several tutorials conducted in the mid-1980s by Dean of the College Emeritus Edgar Beckham on the history of Wesleyan, including a substantial number of taped interviews. All of the above, including the Fellows' own notes and reports, are included in the collection.
It is important to note that much of Wesleyan's history of racial diversity can be found in a variety of sources located throughout the campus, including the records of the Office of Public Information, the Presidential files, and the University Archives' vertical files. In addition, there are a number of excellent secondary sources in the form of theses and essays that can be found in the University Archives. Moreover, much of Wesleyan's early history of student-of-color presence on campus (pre-1964) can be found in the Archives' vertical files. These files provide an introductory though fragmentary overview of the experiences of ethnic and gender minorities at Wesleyan prior to the hiring of Director of Admissions John C. Hoy in 1964 and the subsequent dramatic changes in recruitment strategies and admission policies.
The Hewlett Diversity Archive's strength lies in materials that document Wesleyan's changing face in the last 35 years. But more importantly, the Hewlett Archive's singularity and importance lies in the fact that for the first time these materials are gathered together under a single rubric. Taken together, this information provides a look at the formation and development of student-of-color groups, political, social, and cultural; of administrative policies concerning students as well as faculty; of curricular approaches and pedagogical strategies. This archive is a useful tool for charting the expanding meanings of the concept of diversity itself, from an era when diversity was understood as simply the presence of physical difference to a time when diversity also means heterogeneity of thought. The collection also provides a backdrop for recognizing that "unity" is something struggled for, not automatically attained; and that the achievement of unity may not necessarily be a desirable goal if it can be achieved only at the expense of cultural diversity. In short, the archive's strength lies in gathering together history and memory of the evolution, even revolution, of Wesleyan's vision and self-image.
Born in Atchison, Kansas, Ray P. Holland was interested in the outdoors from an early age. He became a noted sportsman and writer, was dedicated to the management of wildlife and, as a United States Game Warden during World War I, became a key figure in the Supreme Court case of Missouri v. Holland, decided in 1920, a landmark case in constitutional and conservation law. Active in conservation groups such as the American Game Protective Association and the International Association of Game, Fish, and Conservation Commissioners, Holland was editor of the magazine Field & Stream during its heyday in the 1920s and 1930s.
Chronology List
1884 Born, August 20, Atchison, Kansas, Raymond Prunty Holland, known throughout life as Ray P. Holland. Father, Dr. Daniel J. Holland, a physician, died in 1890. Mother, Mary E. Prunty Holland later remarried, to A. J. Hawri. Uncle, Dr. William J. Holland, a prominent entomologist, was director of the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh for many years.
1893-1919  HUNTING AND FISHING ON THE MISSOURI RIVER. Settled in 1854, Atchison was an important stop for wagon trains, a railroad terminal, and a booming river city when Holland was a child. Holland was entranced with the Missouri River which was navigable far north from Atchison along the Nebraska border, across South Dakota and North Dakota to Montana and south from Atchison across Missouri to join the Mississippi River above St. Louis. He knew the river boats, the pleasures of fishing and lived in a boyhood style reminiscent of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn which Mark Twain published in 1883. Holland was also a hunter who "shot his first duck, a greenwing teal, with a muzzle-loading shotgun in October of 1893. He was 9 years old." [Ted Trueblood, "Ray P. Holland," Field & Stream, June 1970, pp. 195-l96.] There are four great, distinguishable flyways taken by migratory birds in their spring flights to breeding grounds in Canada and their fall return south: the Atlantic, Mississippi, Central and Pacific flyways. Holland was an avid duck hunter and came easily to identify all of the birds on the great Mississippi flyway. He has written that he owned one of the first motorboats on the river at Atchison and traveled widely with it, probably before 1910. [Holland, "It Was Mostly Luck," unpub. MSS., Holland Papers, container 10, p. xi-7.] With friends, Holland was out hunting or fishing in season through all the years he resided in Atchison until he moved East to New York in 1919.
1893-1903
EDUCATION. After passing through grammar school, Holland attended Atchison High School, the College Preparatory School at Atchison, from 1899 to 1902 and then, for one year, was a student at the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey. He abandoned an intention to enter Princeton University in 1903.
1903-1912
EARLY OCCUPATIONS. A paper carrier for the Atchison Globe when quite young, Holland listed himself later as an accountant and held a series of jobs in Atchison during the decade after finishing his formal education. He worked in a lumber yard, was cashier of the Atchison Railway, Light and Power Company, ran the office of a small foundry and, finally, as order and price clerk was in charge of the Atchison Saddlery.
MARRIAGE AND FAMILY. Holland married Ruth Marie Perkins, October 16, 1907. They took a river steamboat from Atchison to New Orleans for a wedding trip during which they made visits of several days each in St. Louis, Cape Giradeau, Memphis, Vicksburg and, of course, New Orleans, returning by train. Their children were three: Robert Perkins, Raymond Prunty, Jr., and Daniel John.
1903-1919
FREE-LANCE WRITER OF THE OUTDOORS. Engrossment with the pleasures of camping, hunting and fishing began to payoff in dollars as Holland's stories and articles poured forth. He sent a story done for a class at Lawrenceville School to the magazine Sports Afield and got back a check. By 1912 he was a serious writer, committed enough and successful enough to give up other work and become a full-time free lance. This permitted him even more time in the field, more time to observe and indulge in hunting and fishing and, thereby, become a more authoritative writer. In the winter of 1913, and at other times later, he and his family spent the winter at Balboa Beach, near Newport Bay, south of Los Angeles where, as he later wrote, "I could beat a typewriter one day and hunt and fish the next." [Holland, "It Was Mostly Luck," container 10, p. xiii-1. ] Among his early writings were "A Goose That Was a Goose," Recreation, March 1912, pp. 132-133; "How Fast Can a Duck Fly?," Outing, September 1913, pp. 748-753; "Calling California Ducks," Outing, November 1913, pp. 139-145; "Geese and More Geese," Field and Stream, December 1913, pp. 814-820; and "Do Birds Return to Their Own Nests?," Outdoor World & Recreation, July 1914, pp. 19-20.
WILDLIFE PHOTOGRAPHY. Holland's publications were commonly run with photographs he snapped and developed. Perhaps his first published photograph was of a beehive in Atchison which appeared over the caption, "A Boy Whom Bees Do Not Sting," in Leslie's Weekly, September 24, 1913. As Holland's views about the place of hunting matured and his belief in conservation ripened he spoke out in favor of the camera instead of the gun for out-of-season pleasure, urging "all you old duck-hunters try my way of spring shooting." He went on: "And when you get the same old restlessness in the spring, when the ducks and geese start north, you can go and hunt as long as you please. There is no limit. I have shot thousands and thousands and thousands in a day, and my conscience never hurt me one whit. Then, again, you can always take these pictures out and hunt these same hunts over and over again. If you are the least bit inclined to play with a kodak try this duck game some day and you will undoubtedly get the fever." [Holland, "The Gun for Spring Shooting," Outdoor World & Recreation, July 1913, p. 33. For a remarkable photograph of a duck blind, the original of which is in container 13, see Holland, "The Top Notch of Outdoor Photography," Outing, May 1914, pp. 192-201.]
1914 LOBBYIST FOR NATIONAL LIMIT ON SPRING SHOOTING. Through wide reading and observation, Holland became an advocate of the Weeks-McLean bill which passed Congress as the Migratory Bird Protection Act of March 3, 1913 [37 Stat. 847]. He and Gene Howe, son of Ed Howe who was editor of the Atchison Globe, "decided to join the anti-spring shooting crowd" in seeking appropriations to enforce the new law. They sent numerous telegrams to Congressmen in Washington to this end. [Holland, "It Was Mostly Luck," container 10, p. xiii-3.]
1914-1919
UNITED STATES GAME WARDEN. Having taken a civil service examination at Leavenworth, in August 1914, Holland was appointed District Inspector and United States Game Warden in the Biological Survey of the U.S. Department of Agriculture with the specific duty of enforcing the new Migratory Bird Protection Act in seven midwestern states. He continued to live in Atchison, Kansas and was regarded by some hunters in other states not to have jurisdiction over them. He took both an educational approach and an enforcement approach to the law. Thus he arranged to speak to groups of hunters in duck clubs throughout the region to persuade them that limits were needed on shooting to preserve waterfowl and that bag limits and seasonal limits would be effective to protect their interests as sportsmen. Holland's interest was to stop the "game hogs" and the market hunters who were depleting the supply of game by wholesale slaughter.
UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE MIGRATORY BIRD PROTECTION ACT OF 1913. Opponents of the new act stood on the ground of state's rights, arguing that the commerce clause of the United States Constitution was not a valid basis for national regulation of waterfowl shooting. The opposition tested the act successfully by finding a judge in Jonesboro, Arkansas who held the Federal law unconstitutional. [United States v. Shauver, 214 Fed. 154 (1914).] Warden Holland hoped to counter this by bringing a test case of his own in that he hoped would be the more hospitable United States Court in Kansas City, Kansas but this, too, failed. [United States v. McCullagh, 221 Fed. 288 (1915).] Holland continued in his position while sportsmen, conservationists and the lawyers considered in Washington what course to take.
CANADA-UNITED STATES MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY. Many favorable to the 1913 act feared that it had an insufficient constitutional basis at the time and urged that authority for national regulation be based on the treaty power. One of these was Elihu Root who made the argument as early as 1913. The idea was in the air from then on and was fed by the judicial set backs in the Midwest. It was decided to negotiate a treaty with Great Britain to protect migratory birds in both Canada and the United States. At the same time the appeal of the Shauver and McCullagh cases was delayed and then abandoned by the Department of Justice; the Supreme Court never revisited those rulings. A treaty was signed and promulgated in 1916.
MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT. The bilateral treaty between Canada and the United States was implemented to provide penalties for violations and appropriations for enforcement by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918 [40 Stat. 755].
1919-1920 MISSOURI V. HOLLAND. In the spring of 1919. United States Game Warden Ray P. Holland made arrests for shooting ducks out of season, arrests that led directly to testing the constitutional reach of the treaty power as a basis for protecting migratory birds. Those arrested at a club near Neosho, Missouri were two bankers and an insurance executive from Kansas City, the Democratic committeeman from Missouri and the attorney general of the State of Missouri. Frank W. McAllister. Immediately upon arraignment before the U.S. Commissioner in Clinton, Missouri, the local sheriff, under the direction of McAllister, turned the tables and had Holland arrested for having wild ducks in his possession without a Missouri hunting license. This charge was dropped but soon the State of Missouri brought suit in the Federal district court at Kansas City, claiming that Holland had acted unconstitutionally in enforcing the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The Act was upheld in this case in June, 1919 and Missouri appealed to the United States Supreme Court. On April 19, 1920 the Court ruled, in an opinion by Mr. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., that the Migratory Bird Treaty of 1916 and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 were constitutional. As constitutional doctrine, the importance of this case has rested on its broad reading of the treaty power as against the claim of a state. But this case of Missouri v. Holland, 252 U.S. 416 (1920), is also significant in conservation law, as can be seen in the following passage from the opinion by Holmes: "To put the claim of the State upon title is to lean against a slender reed. Wild birds are not in the possession of anyone; and possession is the beginning of ownership. The whole foundation of the states' rights is the presence within their jurisdiction of birds that yesterday had not arrived, tomorrow may be in another state and in a week a thousand miles away."
1919-1924
AMERICAN GAME PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION. Holland's writing, which he had continued while a U.S. Game Warden in the Midwest --chiefly under the nom de plume of "Bob White" --and now his prominence in the test case of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, led one of the leading sportsmen's advocates of the day, John E. Burnham, to invite him to New York City to edit the Bulletin of the American Game Protective Association. Holland moved his family East, briefly to White Plains and then to Scarsdale, to accept this position. His office was on the 22nd floor of the Woolworth Building and his duties were to edit the monthly Bulletin as well as to prepare a special newsletter of the Association that several prominently known outdoor magazines published in their columns. Founded in 1911, the full name of the organization was the American Game Protective and Propagation Association. Support was plentiful, coming on the one hand from arms and ammunition makers who were "farsighted" and, on the other, from men of means interested in game refuges and in sport.
Holland's views and those of others in the American Game Protective Association were in harmony. "The basic idea of this organization is 'Sport for Sport's Sake.' We want to increase game by setting aside sanctuaries where game birds may breed undisturbed at all times, through the establishment of state game farms by means of which public covers may be stocked." [Bulletin of the American Game Protective Association, January 1919, p. 12.] Every new member was sent a copy of "The American Sportsman's Creed" composed by Zane Grey (1875-1939) and first published in 1918, a statement that pledged prudence and fair play in hunting, scientific study, and game preservation. [Bulletin, July 1918, p. 3.]
1919-1934
GAME REFUGES, PUBLIC SHOOTING GROUNDS, AND A FEDERAL DUCK STAMP. The gnarled story of the origins of the Federal Duck Stamp to support game refuges is difficult to spell out, but, while Holland's importance is often not credited in published accounts, it is clear that his role was significant.
Holland published the first known statement of the idea of a duck stamp in the Bulletin he edited, thus spreading the notion that a migratory bird protective fund be created by imposing a Federal hunting license upon those wishing to hunt migratory fowl. This is a part of the idea, as originally set forth: "During the war the government established a method of issuing war savings stamps through the post offices of the country, and this agency for distribution was very successful in reaching those who were desirous of buying the stamps. The same machinery can be used for selling hunting licenses, the licenses being evidenced by a stamp to be affixed to the applicant's state hunting license and cancelled." [A. S. Houghton, "A Federal Hunting License," Bulletin, April 1920, p. 15.] This was advanced in detail by Holland in the July 1920 issue of Field and Stream. There would be a 50 cent duck stamp issued annually by the Department of Agriculture, the revenue from which would be for the special purpose of acquiring, developing and maintaining Federal waterfowl refuges. This idea originated with three people: George Lawyer, Chief Harden under the Biological Survey, John Burnham and Holland.
For several years beginning around 1922, Holland was joined by Dr. Edward H. Nelson of the Biological Survey as the chief advocates of a program that combined refuge maintenance with hunting, all financed by a Federal licensing stamp. Opposition emerged among sportsmen and conservationists, in part perhaps because of the plain-spoken name given to the bill in Congress where the Nelson-Holland proposal was officially styled as "The Public Shooting Grounds Bill." A friend of the measure has described the controversy in the 1920s as follows: "Strong opposition was led by Dr. [William T.] Hornaday and was initially supported by Outdoor Life, the infant Izaac Walton League, the Camp-Fire Club, Aldo Leopold, Fiorello La Guardia, and others who feared the refuges would turn into federally maintained shooting preserves which would produce no surplus of birds. Advocates of the Nelson-Holland proposal included the Boone and Crockett Club and the National Association of Audubon Societies. Dr. Nelson maintained that because of food scarcity on the wintering grounds, a great increase in the waterfowl population was not then desirable, and that the birds would benefit most from state-regulated shooting combined with federally regulated game management on refuges. He was seconded in an Audubon bulletin by Charles Sheldon, who was also an influential member of the Boone and Crockett Club. Though the bill was defeated, the Camp-Fire Club, the Izaac Walton League, and Outdoor Life eventually saw the light of reason--in the form of sport-supported refuges which eventually materialized in the acquisition program authorized by the 1929 Migratory Bird Conservation Act." [Robert Elman, The Atlantic Flyway (New York: Winchester' Press, 1972), pp. 170-171. Also, see Migratory Bird Conservation Act, Feb. 18, 1929, 45 Stat. 1222, 16 U.S.C. sec. 715.]
While the 1929 Act authorized land purchases and the Bureau of Biological Survey surveyed for places suitable for waterfowl and for purchase, appropriations were insufficient to go far. The drought of the early 1930s reduced breeding grounds for ducks while the kill by man rose sharply. This disastrous trend was reversed with enactment of the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act of 1934. Popularly known as the Duck Stamp Act, this led Henry Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture, to name Jay N. "Ding" Darling to be Chief of a reorganized Bureau of Biological Survey which included a new Refuge Division. Labor from the WPA and CCC, along with "creation and sale of duck stamps-which by 1970 had realized over 175 million dollars for migratory waterfowl refuges--was an important part of their plan." [Jene C. Gilmore, Art for conservation: The Federal Duck Stamps (Barre, Mass.: Barre Publishers, 1971), p. 15. Also, see the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act, March 16, 1934, 48 Stat. 451, 16 U. S. C. sec. 718.] The first stamp, for 1934-1935, was designed by Darling, and sold for $1.00 beginning August 14, 1934. Ray Holland and the other originators of the duck stamp idea are not mentioned in the book on the subject, cited above.
1919-1970 INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF GAME, FISH AND CONSERVATION COMMISSIONERS. Holland became active in the International Association of Game, Fish and Conservation Commissioners (founded in 1902) while serving as U.S. Game Warden. He was elected its secretary at the meeting in Ottawa, Canada in 1920. He served in this position, and as treasurer as well, for 22 years, later being elected to be an honorary life member. Work on legislation and the cooperative efforts of the several states and provinces here and in Canada was greatly aided by this organization.
1924-1941 FIELD & STREAM. Holland served as editor of Field & Stream from 1924 to 1941. Founded in 1895, its circulation grew rapidly during the 1920s and 1930s. A member of the staff today has recalled that, during Holland's editorship, "Field & Stream published the works of some of the best writers and artists of the era--John Taintor Foote, Irvin S. Cobb, Havilah Babcock, David M. Hewell, Clarke Venable, Harold Titus, Archibald Rutledge, Ray Mullholland, Gordon MacQuarrie, Corey Ford, Edison Marshall, Albert Bigelow Paine, Bob Davis, Erle Stanley Gardner, Frank Dufresne, C. E. Gillham--plus everyone who amounted to anything in the outdoor writing field during this period. " [Trueblood, "Ray P. Holland," Field & Stream, June 1970, p. 198.] As an editorial advocate, Holland used his position to work for waterfowl and other national legislation described above. But Holland and his audience of sportsmen also opposed gun control of every sort, perhaps most notably in the form of criticism in the late 1930s of the Sullivan Law in New York State that required registration of handguns.
1935 Served G. & C. Merriam Co. as special editor on the subjects of hunting and field sports for Webster's New International Dictionary of the English Language, Second Edition, Unabridged.
1941 Resigned editorship of Field & Stream.
1941-1973
ACTIVITIES IN LATER YEARS. Holland continued to combine much outdoor life with further free-lance writing. He had hunted for 14 consecutive years in Saskatchewan. Now he began spending winters in Naples, Florida and, after the war, for ten years spent up to three months each winter in Cuba. In the late 1940s he moved to Quechee, Vermont for the summer months. When Castro came to power in Cuba, Holland spent the winter months in Roswell, New Mexico. In addition to the many books listed in the bibliography at page 10 of this register, he wrote articles and stories for many magazines in the postwar period, The Saturday Evening Post, Liberty, Collier's, Nation's Business, True, and American Legion among them. His last published story was "Desert Tragedy," Field & Stream, September 1966.
Not politically active apart from conservation issues, Holland did question the growth of national power during his later years. He approved of the effort, manifested by the so-called "Bricker Amendment," aimed at reducing the President's authority to make Executive Agreements and at limiting the treaty power's effect on domestic matters. The rule of Missouri v. Holland was a target and he joined in aiming at it. Holland's sentiments were conveyed to a national columnist who described them well. [See Raymond Moley, "Perspective: Behind Holland v. Missouri [sic]," Newsweek, October 19, 1953. p. 124. Clipping in container 4, folder 11, Holland Papers.]
The American Game Protection Association had been in virtual hibernation after 1924, and Holland and a group of others revived the organization in 1958. He became President, and the Association endowed and established many game refuges in midwestern states during the next decade. Finally a merger was decided upon and Holland retired from this activity upon the formation of the consolidated organization known as the "New York Conservation Council and the American Game Association Foundation, Inc." in 1969.
1973 Died February 20, 1973 at age 88 in Roswell, New Mexico. Survived by his widow and three sons. He was buried in the family plot in Atchison, Kansas. [Ted Trueblood, "Ray P. Hol1and, 1884-1973," Field & Stream, May 1973, p. 96.]
Vivienne Mader Huapala was born on September 30, 1901 in Brooklyn, New York. She graduated from Erasmus Hall High School, and from the Connecticut College for Women, in New London, Connecticut in 1923. She died January 6, 1972 in New York. She was 71.
She studied classical and interpretive dance with Constantin Kobeleff, Ruth St. Denis, Martha Graham, Ted Shawn, and Michio Ito. She lived in Hawaii in the late 1920s where she was captivated by the native dances which were much different than the hulas seen in the United States. She studied ancient and tribal music under royal court chanters and dance instructors. Mader recorded some of the dances on film and records, and become one of the few non-natives that were permitted to record ceremonies.
From the natives, Mader was given the name Huapala after the sweetheart flower of the Hawaiian islands. In 1931 she was selected to dance for the Royal Princess Kalanianaole, and in 1934, she danced for President Roosevelt when he visited the islands.
In New York, Mader organized a Hawaiian dance group that appeared at Radio City Music Hall, the Rainbow Room, and other such places. She also gave hula concerts at Carnegie Hall, Columbia University, and the New School for Social Research.
William John James (1860-1941) was College Librarian from 1891 to 1929 and Assistant Treasurer of Wesleyan from 1908 to 1929.
John Johnston was born in Bristol, Maine and received his B.A. and M. A. degrees from Bowdoin College. Before coming to Wesleyan, he taught at Cazenovia Seminary (Oneida Conference) in New York from 1832-1835. At Wesleyan, Johnston began as Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Lecturer in Natural Science in 1837, was Professor of Natural Science from 1837-1873, and Professor Emeritus from 1873 until his death in 1879. Johnston was acting President of Wesleyan twice in this period. Her served in 1851-1852, prior to the presidency of Augustus William Smith, and in 1857-1858 following Smith's presidency.
Born in Milton, New Hampshire in 1887, Robert Edmond Jones graduated from Harvard University in 1910. Jones spent his career as a stage designer and rose to national prominence working with the Washington Square Players, Kenneth Macgowan and the Greenwich Village Theatre, Eugene O'Neill and the Provincetown Players, and the Theatre Guild, Inc. As a stage designer, Jones is best known for his simplified sets that complemented the action of a production and his dramatic use of color in costuming and lighting. In the 1930s, Jones was hired as a color consultant and designer by RKO studios, and worked on some of the first films to use the three-strip Technicolor process, Becky Sharp, La Cucaracha, and The Dancing Pirate. Jones published a number of articles on stagecraft, and authored Drawings for the Theatre (1925), The Dramatic Imagination (1941), and, with Kenneth Macgowan, Continental Stagecraft (1922).
Harriet Stewart Judd was born in 1822 in Lockport, New York. In 1855, Harriet married Orange Judd (1822-1892), a graduate of Wesleyan University and an editor and publisher. She formerly taught at the Albion Seminary and the Rockford Female College in Illinois. She was the mother of four sons, William Orange (1856-1869), Charles Ozias (1858-1877), George Thomas (1861-1892), and James Strong (1863-?). Harriet was also stepmother to Sarah Ford, daughter from Orange Judd's previous marriage. Harriet was a devoted wife, accompanying her husband on his many trips across the globe, and was an accomplished writer. She was buried in Springfield, Massachusetts on August 2, 1907 at the age of 85.
Louise (Lucy) Wilby Knight was a history major of the class of 1972. During her time at Wesleyan, she solidified an interest in feminist history that has continued throughout her career. In her final year at Wesleyan, Knight completed a history thesis on the subject of Wesleyan's first period of coeducation, 1872-1912. She has since published two biographies of Jane Addams, who was the co-founder of Chicago's Hull House and a noted women's rights activist during the late 1800s.
David Knapp was born in New York, NY, on Sept. 2, 1926. He joined the Boy Scouts of America in 1938 and became an Eagle Scout in 1944. Soon after, he matriculated to Wesleyan University, from which he graduated in 1949. During his time at Wesleyan, Knapp was a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity and lived in the fraternity's house. Following his graduation from Wesleyan, Knapp worked as a Boy Scouts of America district executive from 1951 to 1961. He then was a sales representative for educational companies.
In 1958, Knapp married Mary Adelaide Wheeler, who previously had two daughters. Knapp and Wheeler also had a daughter of their own. Knapp and his new family lived in Connecticut. In 1986, Knapp came out as gay to his wife and they divorced. He said that he still remained "deeply closeted." Soon after his divorce, and then retired and living in Guilford Ct., Knapp was asked by local boy scout leaders to volunteer to recruit and train adult leaders.
Knapp began to make local and national headlines in 1993, after he was dismissed from the Boy Scouts. Since then, Knapp has been a vocal advocate for changes in the BSA's policies that would allow for more inclusive membership, including membership for gays and atheists; organized protests; and given interviews to the press about his life and work in scouting.
Gale Lackey was a member of Wesleyan University's senior athletics department from 1978 to 2015. She served as the senior woman administrator in athletics and an associate athletics director, as well as an adjunct professor of physical education and an affiliated professor in women's studies (now FGSS). She coached the women's lacrosse and field hockey teams from 1978 to 1985, at which point she took over as the coach of women's volleyball. Lackey has the distinction of coaching Wesleyan women's teams to Little Three championships in three different sports (volleyball, field hockey and lacrosse). In 2001, she was named New England Small College Athletic Conference (NESCAC) Coach of the Year. A 1970 graduate of West Chester St. College (now West Chester University), where she earned both her B.A. and M. Ed. degrees, Lackey spent seven years teaching and coaching field hockey and volleyball at Spring Grove (Pa.) High School before coaching a year of volleyball at the University of Bridgeport in 1977-78.
Howard Fifield Legg, born in 1881 in Rhode Island, spent his childhood in Worchester, Massachusetts. Legg graduated from Wesleyan University in 1904 and went on to Drew Theological Seminary in New Jersey (1904-1907). Beginning in 1906, he was a student pastor and then after graduating from the seminary, he was a pastor in New England until 1925. From 1922-1925, he was a student at the Boston University Theological and Religious Education graduate program. From 1925 to 1936, he was a professor of religion at Evansville College, and then at Simpson College in Iowa from 1936-1946. In 1946, he retired to California with his wife, Nellie.
Philip Levy (1909-1970), was a government official and lawyer involved with national labor policy, civil rights and anti-lynching policy, immigration leniency for German refugees during the Nazi era, national health insurance initiatives, and banking and currency during the 1930s and 1940s. From 1947-1970 he practiced law in a private firm, dealing with Jewish refugees, congressional and political reform, and foreign claims against the U.S. government. Throughout his long career he maintained an interest in labor policy and lectured at American University Law School in Washington, D.C.
Chronology List
1909 May 6 Born, New York City.
1925-1929 Attended College of the City of New York (CCNY). B.S., 1929. Phi Beta Kappa.
1929-1930 Served as assistant to Registrar Morton Gottshall (later Dean) of CCNY.
1930-1933 Attended Columbia University Law School. Kent Scholar, 1931. Served as research assistant to Professors Milton Handler, Karl Llewellyn and Edwin Patterson. Note Editor for the Columbia Law Review, 1932-33; author of note, "The Rule of Reason in Loose-Knit Combinations," Columbia Law Review, Vol. 32 (Feb. 1932), pp. 291-324. LL.B., June, 1933.
1933 Married Selma Friedman.
1933-1934 Employed as an attorney in the firm of Greenbaum, Wolff and Ernst, New York City.
1934-1937
On April 9, 1934, Mr. Levy joined legal staff of National Labor Relations Board under General Counsel Milton Handler and Associate General Counsel William Gorham Rice, Jr. The Board was created under Section 7 (a) of the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) of June 16, 1933.
NEW DEAL LABOR POLICY. The United States Supreme Court on May 27, 1935 in Schechter Corporation v. United States, 295 U.S. 495, held key sections of the NIRA invalid. The legal staff of the Labor Board had already been at work formulating a new national labor policy in cooperation with Senator Wagner and the Roosevelt administration. The National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449, known popularly as the Wagner Act, which became law on July 5, 1935, established a permanent National Labor Relations Board to assure good-faith collective bargaining in industries engaged in interstate commerce.
1935-1937
Served on legal staff of the National Labor Relations Board under General Counsel Charles Fahy. Mr. Levy rose to the position of senior attorney and chief of the Appellate Litigation Section and thus helped formulate the defense of the Wagner Act in the courts. He argued some cases in the lower courts across the country - in addition to brief writing.
The United States Supreme Court on April 12, 1937 in five Wagner Act cases, led by NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, 301 U.S. 1, ruled the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 constitutional. [For a full discussion of this subject, see Irving Bernstein, The New Deal Collective Bargaining Policy (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1950).]
1937-1944
COUNSEL TO SENATOR WAGNER. In November, 1937, Mr. Levy became Legislative Counsel to Senator Robert F. Wagner. Mr. Wagner (1877-1953), a Democrat from New York, served in the United States Senate from 1927 until 1949 when he resigned owing to ill health. As Legislative Counsel, Mr. Levy succeeded Leon Keyserling. His duties included service to Senator Wagner in his capacity as Chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee. [Regarding Wagner and the Senate in those years, see J. Joseph Huthmacher, Senator Robert F. Wagner and the Rise of Urban Liberalism (New York: Atheneum, 1968). ] After Mr. Levy's service, the professional staff for Congress was vastly increased under provisions of the Legislative Reorganization Act of August 2, 1946. [P.L. 79601.]
Mr. Levy helped draft legislation and arranged hearings on several subjects which Congress did not approve but which have had enduring importance.
ANTI-LYNCHING BILL, 1938. Civil rights was one of Mr. Levy's major interests, expressed notably as one of the draftsmen of the Wagner-Van Nuys anti-lynching bill, an amendment to H.R. 1507, 75th Cong., 3d Sess. The bill made lynching a federal crime, would prosecute negligent law enforcement officials, and would fine the county within which the lynching took place. The Senate voted on February 21, 1938, to table the bill, following eight weeks of filibuster by the bill's opponents, including several Southern Democratic Senators and Senator William Borah, Republican of Idaho. Failure of President Roosevelt to take a strong stand in favor of the bill hindered its chances for passage. [For the civil rights context and a discussion of the momentous filibuster, see Robert F. Zangrando, "The NAACP and a Federal Lynching Bill, 1934-1940," Journal of Negro History, Vol. 50 (April 1965), pp. 106-117. Also a Bobbs-Merrill Reprint in Black Studies, No. BC-33l. The filibuster can also be followed in Congo Rec., 75th Cong., 3d Sess., pp. 138-161 and pp. 2090-2118 passim (1938).]
WAGNER-ROGERS BILL FOR CHILD REFUGEES FROM NAZI GERMANY, 1939. Passionately concerned with the harsh policies of Nazi Germany, Mr. Levy helped draft the Wagner-Rogers Bill, S.J. Res. 64, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 1278 (1939). An attempt to liberalize the Immigration Act of 1924, the bill allowed for the entrance of twenty thousand German refugees ages fourteen and under, during a two-year period. These refugees would not be counted against the national quota for Germany. Patriotic orders, such as the American Legion, opposed the measure, claiming it would "deprive American children." Once again the President failed to give the bill his strong support, and on June 30, 1939, the Senate Immigration Committee barely passed a hopelessly emasculated bill that would not allow the refugee youths to be counted independently of the national origins quota for Germany. [For details, see David S. Wyman, Paper Walls: America and the Refugee Crisis 1938-1941 (Amherst, Mass.: University of Massachusetts Press, 1968), and Arthur D. Morse, While Six Million Died: A Chronicle of American Apathy (New York: Random House, 1967).]
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE. The Medicare programs developed as law in the 1960s were anticipated by the pioneer health bills developed in part by Mr. Levy and championed by Senator Robert F. Wagner in the 1930s. President Roosevelt never recommended a national health insurance program and the Social Security Act became law August 14, 1935 without it. In 1943 the first "Wagner-Murray-Dingell" bill (S. 1161, H.R. 2861, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.) was introduced. This measure included a compulsory national health-insurance system for persons of all ages, to be financed through a payroll tax. The bill died in 1944 at the end of the 78th Congress. Mr. Levy cherished his legislative work on this idea as the most important in his career. [For a full account of this episode, see Daniel S. Hirshfield, The Lost Reform: The Campaign for Compulsory Health Insurance in the United States from 1932 to 1943 (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1970).] 
1944-1946 In World War II, Mr. Levy served in the United States Army, Judge Advocate General Office, in the European and Mediterranean theatres. He entered the service in February, 1944 and was discharged in March, 1946.
1946-1947
Following the war, Mr. Levy returned to serve as counsel to the Senate Banking and Currency Committee then chaired by Senator Charles Tobey (1880-1953), a Republican from New Hampshire and member of the Senate from 1939 to 1953.
SENATE BANKING AND CURRENCY COMMITTEE. Mr. Levy estimated 80 per cent of his time as a lawyer in the United States Senate was spent on the activities of the Banking and Currency Committee, which covered a wide area. Those subjects included early public housing, urban renewal, work of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, the Securities and Exchange Commission, export controls, Treasury Department, Federal Reserve Bank, International Monetary Fund and domestic relief programs. The Committee also dealt with wartime economic controls and small business liquidation.
1947-1970
WASHINGTON LAWYER. From 1947 onward Mr. Levy was in private law practice in Washington, D. C., in partnership with Charles Fahy. Mr. Fahy left the firm in 1952 upon his appointment as Circuit Judge in the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia by President Truman. Sharing a suite with Fahy and Levy were Rufus Poole and Milton Denbo, John A. Danaher and Barrett Quirk. This loose-knit firm existed for about six years. From 1953 to 1970 Mr. Levy was a self-employed lawyer in private practice in Washington. [For a broad discussion of this topic, not connected specifically to Mr. Levy's work at all, see Charles Horsky, The Washington Lawyer (Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1953).]
PALESTINE. Senator Wagner was vitally interested in the plight of the Jews and in Palestine, and Mr. Levy was his close advisor. Their tireless effort to save lives of Jews in Nazi Germany before and during the Second World War was followed by an active concern for refugees and the establishment of a Jewish state afterwards. Mr. Levy prepared a number of Senator Wagner's speeches on these subjects. In law practice, Charles Fahy and Philip Levy together represented the government of the then Palestine a short time before the declaration of the State of Israel. On May 14, 1948 the State of Israel was proclaimed at Tel-Aviv. On the same day it received de facto recognition from the United States through the action of President Truman. After that time, Mr. Levy had no formal or professional ties, other than that of the concerned citizen.
CONGRESSIONAL AND POLITICAL REFORM. An abiding interest in American political institutions on the part of Philip Levy was expressed in a series of essay reviews on Congress and the parties. Mr. Levy reviewed Congress at the Crossroads by George B. Galloway and Twentieth Century Congress by Estes Kefauver and Jack Levin [Columbia Law Review, Vol. 47 (Nov. 1947), pp. l246-l248]; Toward a More Responsible Two-Party System, a report on a committee of the American Political Science Association chaired by E.E. Schattschneider [Harvard Law Review, Vol. 65 (1952), pp. 536-541]; and Congress at Work by Stephen K. Bailey and Howard D. Samuel, and Next Steps in Congressional Reform by George B. Galloway [Columbia Law Review, Vol. 53 (June 1953), pp. 888-890].
1949-1969
FOREIGN CLAIMS WORK. Philip Levy's activities before the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States are widely regarded as significant and beneficial both for the clients whom he represented and for the Commission itself. He was counsel in almost all the programs of the Commission, commencing in 1949 with the first claims program against the Government of Yugoslavia. Exacting, precedent making work was done by Mr. Levy alone, and claims work occupied most of the last two decades of his life and represented his flowering as a mature legal thinker.
Two acts of Congress, the War Claims Act of 1948 (62 Stat. 1240) and the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, was amended (64 Stat. 12) and Reorganization Plan 1 of 1954 (68 Stat. 1279) form the basis of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States. This three-member Commission has jurisdiction to determine claims of United States nationals against foreign governments for compensation for losses and injuries sustained by them. Available funds have their sources in international settlements, liquidation of foreign assets in this country by the Departments of Justice or the Treasury, and from public funds when provided by Congress. These programs were conducted from 1949 to 1954 by the International Claims Commission and since 1954 by the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission.
Mr. Levy's claims work has been praised by Mr. Svonko Rode, senior review attorney at the Claims Commission, in these words: "In claims programs, such as against the Governments of Bulgaria, Rumania, Italy, Hungary, the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, Poland and Cuba, and in the war damage program which encompassed war losses sustained by American companies and individuals in Albania, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Danzig, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Yugoslavia, Philip Levy was representing substantial claims of American industrial enterprises. His views and opinions on numerous questions in the field of international law were always held in high regard, and in many instances influenced the final determination made by the Commission. He was also known as a very precise and accurate worker, giving a high degree of attention to minute details in the preparation of his statements. briefs and arguments that he used to deliver before the Commission. In the field of international claims the late Philip Levy was one of the leaders in the professional community, and among the representatives appearing before the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, his name will always be associated with the most outstanding attorneys who entered their appearance before that agency." [Statement of Svonko Rode, Esq., March, 1971.] 
1949-1969 LABOR LAW. Mr. Levy held a steady interest in the development of national labor policy. For many years he was a teacher of labor law as a Lecturer at American University Law School in Washington, D. C. He followed Congressional policy closely. Presidents Truman and Eisenhower named him a member of the National Emergency Board of Inquiry, under the Taft-Hartley Act, to deal with the American Locomotive Company dispute in 1952-53. Mr. Levy was also a member of the National Panel of Arbitrators of the American Arbitration Association.
1959-1960 Member, Board of Commercial Arbitration, American Arbitration Association.
1963-1970 Member, Board of Governors, Washington Foreign Law Society .
1963-1965 President, Columbia Law School Alumni Association of the District of Columbia.
1966-1967 Chairman, Committee on International Law, District of Columbia Bar Association.
1969
Prepared oral history contribution about the 1930s for the Cornell University Labor History Program
For a year Mr. Levy did valuation work as an arbitrator for the Agency for International Development. A.I.D. had been established in 1961 to carry out United States overseas programs of economic and technical assistance to less developed countries designed to bring countries to a level of self-sufficiency.
1970 May 22 Died, Washington, D. C., at age 61
 James Oliver Longstreet was born November 16, 1833, in Onondaga, New York. His parents owned and operated a farm in Onondaga. He received a BA from Wesleyan in 1857. As a student at Wesleyan, he was a member of the Mystical Seven secret society and the Missionary Lyceum. Starting in 1856, he served as president of the Missionary Lyceum and as president of the senior class. Longstreet was politically active while at Wesleyan, campaigning for John C. Fremont during the 1856 presidential campaign. He was a member of the Republican Party, and active in their group on campus. Longstreet was vocal about his abolitionist views, and expressed pleasure in reading the writings of Frederick Douglas. During the summers and winters he taught school in various locations, especially in North Guilford and North Branford (both in Connecticut). After graduating from Wesleyan, Longstreet taught in Croton Falls, NY, from 1857 to 1858. From 1858-1860, he attended the Collegiate and Polytechnic Institute in Brooklyn, NY, receiving the degree of Masters of Arts. He married Josephine Christopher of Croton Falls, NY, on July 7, 1859. In 1860, he joined the Troy Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. He was a preacher at Hyde Park, Vermont, from 1860 until his death in 1861.
Long Lane School in Middletown, Conn., opened in 1869 as the Connecticut Industrial School for Girls. In 1921, it became a juvenile detention center for girls, and in 1973, the detention center also admitted boys. In 2000, Wesleyan University bought the 160 acre property, and in 2003, the school closed.
Jerome H. Long served as an Associate Professor of Religion at Wesleyan University from 1971 to 1997. Born in 1931 in Little Rock, Arkansas, he earned a doctorate in the History of Religions from the University of Chicago Divinity School in 1973, and completed his doctoral dissertation on the Mbuti Pygmies of Zaire and the Bushmen of southern Africa. While at Wesleyan, he helped found the Center for African American Studies (CAAS) and acted as its director from 1979 to 1982. His research focuses on African and African American myth, religion, and ritual, and on the experiences of African American soldiers stationed in Europe in World War II.
Following graduation from New York University Law School in 1967, Roy Lucas published a landmark article, "Federal Constitutional Limitations on the Enforcement and Administration of State Abortion Statutes," in the North Carolina Law Review. Soon his interest in student rights and other civil liberties issues were overwhelmed as abortion litigation came to him in ever-growing volume. In 1969 and 1970 he helped found, with Morris Dees, the James Madison Constitutional Law Institute with offices in New York City and Montgomery, Alabama. In 1972 and 1973 this organization was changed somewhat to become the Population Law Center with offices in San Francisco and Washington, D. C.
William Phoebus Lyon was born on January 25, 1813 at No. 5 Bayard Street in New York City. From 1819 to 1822 he lived with his father on a farm two miles from Ithaca, New York. In 1822 he returned to New York City for two years only to move to another farm in Haverstraw, New York in 1824. After two years on the farm, his family returned once again to New York City where after a year Lyon became a clerk in a dry goods store working for his uncle Edward Lyon. From October 1828 to February 1829, he studied at a New York high school, after which he became a teacher in the New York schools from February 1829 to May 1832. After studying law in New York from May 1835 to June 1837, Lyon pursued and was unsuccessful in business enterprises in Chicago; Haverstraw, New York; and New York City. On April 15, 1834, Lyon married Harriet Wood and on May 29, 1835, the couple had a son, William Roscoe.
William P. Lyon is most noteworthy as the founder and senior principal of the Irving Institute, located in North Tarrytown, New York. In 1837, William and his brother Charles Lyon founded the private boarding school for boys in North Tarrytown, later renamed Sleepy Hollow. William P. Lyon was the editor and publisher of the Pocantico Gazette, later known as the Irving Banner, one of the first newspapers in Tarrytown, New York. On August 5, 1840, Wesleyan University bestowed upon him the honorary degree of A.M. through the influence of Wesleyan President Nathan Bangs. In the summer of 1841, Lyon took a trip to Wesleyan University in order to review the examinations of the student body. He was also a prominent member of the New York Conference of the Methodist Church. William P. Lyon died August 10, 1884.
David Park McAllester was born in 1916, the youngest of four children. He grew up in Everett, Massachusetts, where he often accompanied his mother on natural history walks as she collected material for her weekly column in the Boston Sunday Herald. Professor McAllester traces his ultimate career as a specialist in Native American culture to an early exposure to reading animal tracks in the snow as well as to the literature of Ernest Thompson Seton, Bret Harte, James Fenimore Cooper and Henry David Thoreau. He was also musical; he sang as a boy soprano beginning around the age of eight and attended private voice lessons with the original intention of becoming a professional singer.
David McAllester attended Harvard University, entering in 1934 and graduating in 1938. There he continued his dual interests in anthropology and music. He took classes in southwestern ethnology and linguistics with Clyde Kluckhohn and sang as a soloist with the Harvard Glee Club. Music led him to his future wife, Susan Watkins, during a joint performance with the Radcliffe Choral Society. After graduating from Harvard, he started at Juilliard; however, he continued to do field work during the summers at an archaeological dig at the Lindenmeier site in Colorado, an activity he had started while at Harvard. He also started taking classes at Columbia University, notably George Herzog's "Primitive Music" class. By the spring of 1940 he had made the decision not to pursue music as a career and had started in the PhD program in anthropology at Columbia with a focus on American Indian music. In the summer of 1940 he joined a linguistic field study of the Comanche in Oklahoma where he did research on peyote songs and rituals. With the war looming, he and Susan were married in September 1940. He spent academic year 1940-1941 at Columbia where he met such luminaries as Franz Boaz and Margaret Mead.
Although not raised in the Quaker tradition, David McAllester had deeply felt pacifist beliefs and joined the 15th Street Meeting of the Society of Friends while living in New York City. With the entry of the United States into World War II he filed for, and was granted, conscientious objector status. He spent the next two years working with the Civilian Public Service (CPS) in a forestry camp in Cooperstown, NY, and the following two years working with the CPS at the Connecticut State Hospital in Middletown, CT.
When the war ended in 1945 he returned to Columbia where he began work on his dissertation on peyote songs. He had a part-time job in the Archive of Primitive Music there and supplemented this with adjunct teaching at Brooklyn College. He was awarded his PhD from Columbia University in 1950. In 1947 he was invited to join the faculty at Wesleyan University where he remained until his retirement in 1986.
Professor McAllester has been active in the development of the field of Ethnomusicology. When he first came to Wesleyan he had a joint appointment in Psychology and Biology. In 1952, at the American Anthropological Association meeting in Philadelphia, he was introduced to Alan Merriam by Willard Rhodes of Columbia University. These three joined forces with Charles Seeger to create a newsletter focused on ethnomusicology, first published in December 1953. The four men founded the Society for Ethnomusicology in 1955. David McAllester broadened the music curriculum at Wesleyan to include non-European music in 1956 with his course Music 31, Ethnic and Folk Music. The World Music Archives at Wesleyan University developed out of the field recordings of Native American ceremonies that he made in the 1940s and '50s, and it was partly his influence that led to the establishment of the department of Anthropology at Wesleyan in 1967. He was appointed professor of Anthropology and Music in 1972.
Professor McAllester traveled extensively during the course of his professional career. He received a Guggenheim grant in 1957 and spent a year in Arizona studying the Navajo Blessingway ritual. In 1960 he was Carnegie visiting professor at the University of Hawaii. In 1972 he spent a sabbatical visiting Japan, Indonesia, India and Finland. In 1978 he taught as a visiting scholar at the University of Queensland, Australia, as a recipient of the Fulbright-Hays Award. His recordings of Comanche and Navajo music led to the establishment of the World Music Archives at Wesleyan University in 1953. This has grown extensively since then with contributions by Professor McAllester and his colleagues.
Beginning in 1979, Professor McAllester taught one full semester per year at Wesleyan, spending the remaining eight months at his home in the Berkshires. He retired fully in 1986. Since then he has continued to be involved in the Society for Ethnomusicology, writing professional book reviews, and has been very involved in his local newspaper.
William Edward Mead was born on October 25, 1860 in Gallupville, New York. His father, Merritt B. Mead was a Methodist minister. He attended Wesleyan and graduated with the Class of 1881 with special honors in English literature. He stayed at Wesleyan as a graduate student and assistant librarian until 1882 when he became the associate principal of Ansonia high school in Ansonia, Connecticut. In 1884, he returned to Wesleyan as assistant in rhetoric and also teaching history at the Normal School in New Britain. The following year, Mead became principal of a high school in Troy, New York. He went abroad to study for the next five years in Germany, Paris, and London. While abroad, he became acquainted with Kate Hurd who was traveling for pleasure. Mead returned to Wesleyan in 1890 as Associate Professor of English, became full professor in 1893, and emeritus in 1925. A listing of many of Mead’s many publications can be found by searching the Wesleyan Library Catalog and the separate card files of faculty and alumni publications in Special Collections and Archives.
Kate Campbell Hurd was the daughter of Dr. Hurd of Newburyport, Massachusetts. She was born on April 6, 1867 in Danville, Quebec, Canada, and graduated from the Woman’s Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1888. She continued her medical studies at New England Hospital in Boston and at various universities in Europe and the Johns Hopkins Medical School. From 1890-93, she was medical director at the Bryn Mawr School in Baltimore.
William Mead married Kate Hurd on June 23, 1893. After their wedding, they went on a trip to Norway and Europe. They took up residence in Middletown and stayed until 1929 when they moved to Sunnymede, a house overlooking the Connecticut River, in Haddam. A photograph of the house appears in the 1932 correspondence folder (Series II, Box 9, folder 49). The Meads traveled extensively throughout the world, especially after Professor Mead’s retirement from Wesleyan in 1925.
Kate Hurd Mead died at her home of a heart attack while assisting a groundskeeper who had collapsed while fighting a brush fire on the Mead estate. At the time of her death on January 1, 1941, at age 73, Kate was a widely known medical author and practicing physician. She was the first woman doctor in Middletown. She had published A History of Women in Medicine, covering ancient times through the 18th century. A second volume was at the printers, and a third volume was almost finished.
Professor Mead died on July 12, 1949 at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown. He was 88. The Meads had no children.
Fred B. Millett (1890-1976) was a professor of English and director of the Honors College at Wesleyan University. He received his bachelor's degree from Amherst College and a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago. Prior to coming to Wesleyan in 1937, he taught at Carnegie Tech, Queen's University in Ontario, and the University of Chicago. Millett taught at Wesleyan from 1937 until 1958. He was the author of a number of books and a frequent lecturer on literature and scholarship.
Wesleyan University has offered a number of courses which discuss Middletown, Connecticut and its history. Since 1972, student papers written on historical Middletown-area topics have been donated to Special Collections & Archives.
During the years 1968 and 1969, military recruitment on the Wesleyan University campus became a heated issue. In February of 1969, Navy recruiter Lieutenant Kehoe came to campus to conduct interviews with students in North College. Approximately 30 Wesleyan students and 3 faculty members crammed the room, making the proceedings impossible, while about 100 more students gathered outside to protest the military presence on campus. In order to deal with the crisis, the University, under the presidency of Edwin Etherington, created a referendum amongst the student body through the College Body Committee, which was followed by a faculty vote. By November 1969 they had arrived at a new policy. Etherington resigned shortly thereafter and was succeeded by Colin Campbell. The full-time position of an Advisor on Military Programs was created and Philip Rockwell took the job. Meetings with military representatives would from then on take place based solely on student request and were to be organized by Philip Rockwell. All interviews, examinations, and tests for military entrance would be done off campus at the appropriate location.
In December 1970, Colonel Kerrigan of the US Marine Corps informed Wesleyan that, due to his interpretation of the University's policy, the Secretary of Defense was advised that Wesleyan was barring military personnel from campus because of the requirement for a student request for a Marine officer visit. The justification for this was, according to Kerrigan, the NASA Act and the Armed Forces Appropriation Act. The University, in its response, was able to clarify its policy and successfully dispute the accusation. Simultaneously, Professor of Philosophy Paul Reynolds was a member for the anti-war Union for Progressive Action, and actively protested recruitment on campus. In numerous documents, he objected to what he called the University sanctioning executive sessions of classified government personnel with members of the community. He maintained that a member of the government under security clearance has no claim to academic rights, and therefore executive sessions being held on campus threatened the academic climate of the University, and legally required a warrant to be held on public premises or at the University. He also objected to the Office of Career Planning helping to recruit students for espionage in the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), or National Security Agency (NSA). According to documents from the University administration, there were not any executive sessions or espionage recruitment. When the draft and the Vietnam War ended in 1973, much of the conflict on campus seems to have died down.
The Middletown Scientific Association was founded on March 17, 1871 by Wesleyan University faculty and residents of Middletown, Connecticut. Its purpose was to encourage scientific investigation and curiosity among members and to receive papers from members and other scientists regarding popular topics in all fields of science, history of science, and education of science. The association was one of the very first town and gown organizations at Wesleyan University. Founding members included John Johnston, E. P. Barrows, Frederic Gardiner, R. G. Pike, H. D. A. Ward, J. M. Van Vleck, J. C. Van Benschoten, W. N. Rice, C. T. Winchester, G. Browne Good, Noah Cressy, E. B. Nye, G. W. Burke, W. W. Coe, H. E. Sawyer, J. H. Emerson, F. D. Edgerton, J. P. Taylor, S. W. Noyes, F. H. Newhall, C. S. Harrington, Joseph Cummings, A. M. Shew, and A. W. Hazen. Members of the association, in addition to Wesleyan faculty, included physicians, ministers, and teachers. Women were admitted into membership beginning in 1880.Regular meetings were often held in the Hall Laboratory of Chemistry, Scott Laboratory of Physics, and Shanklin Laboratory of Biology at Wesleyan University. Occasional field meetings were held, during which members would learn first-hand about botany, geology, and other topics of natural history. Early in the association's history, papers were given at regular meetings on a variety of scientific topics in all fields, usually by members of the association, and occasionally by outside scientific experts. As membership grew, lecturers were more frequently invited from abroad to speak to the association. The Middletown Scientific Association disbanded in 1968, after attendance at regular meetings was limited to those members who had been invited to dinner to meet with the lecturer. Though membership numbers and satisfaction with the organization remained high, there appeared to be a consensus among members that individuals were too busy to attend. The final meeting was held on April 8, 1968.
The Middletown Manuscripts Collection is an intentionally created collection of disparate manuscripts related to the history of Middletown, Connecticut.
The Missionary Lyceum at Wesleyan was founded October 22, 1834, after an address to undergraduates by the first president of the university, Rev. Dr. Willbur Fisk, on the importance of forming a society for the benefit of the missionary cause. The purpose of the Lyceum was to promote a missionary zeal among its members by way of debates, addresses, collection of artifacts and literature from foreign missions, and the exchange of correspondence with various missionaries. A brief discussion of the Lyceum may be found in Carl Price's Wesleyan's First Century, p.42-43.
In the first constitution, adopted October 27, 1834, the name of the organization was announced: This society shall be called the Missionary Lyceum of the Wesleyan University. In the minutes which were kept of the meetings, various recording secretaries referred to Missionary Lyceum, Lyceum, Society, or Missionary Society. However, the minutes of the September 6, 1845 meeting begin: A special meeting of the M & T [Missionary & Theological] Lyceum was convened . . . . It was referred to as the Theological and Missionary Lyceum in minutes for every meeting thereafter. A revised constitution and bye-laws were discussed also, and while no revised constitution for 1845 is recorded, Article I of the May 1, 1848 revised constitution states: This society shall be styled the Theological and Missionary Lyceum of the Wesleyan University.
A previous missionary society, which Price refers to as being literary in character, was begun at Wesleyan on November 21, 1831, but folded the following spring. It appears, however, that the members of the Missionary Lyceum were also conscious of the necessity of a strong background in writings pertaining to theology and missionary work. Daniel P. Kidder, first corresponding secretary of the Lyceum, wrote to the Rev. R. Spaulding on November 6, 1834, announcing the formation of the Lyceum and explaining its goals:
That . . . which at present seems most favorable for awakening Christian sympathy and calling forth benevolent action is the collection and communication of facts, illustrative of those whom we commiserate. This will chiefly be done through the medium of domestic and foreign correspondence and the embodying and condensing of intelligence as may reach us through the press.
In a letter from Dr. Fisk (June 8, 1837) to the Lyceum, he advocated the enlargement of their museum and the beginnings of a library of missionary literature:
[Another] process of exciting the missionary spirit and aiding the missionary cause, through your society, is that of collecting a library, that shall have a direct relation to the missionary work. Although your library is still small yet it is a number around which future accumulations will I trust be collected, until the Missionary Library of the Wesleyan University shall contain all that is important to the missionary student . . .you have from the Wesleyan Missionary Society, in London, their Reports and missionary notices, from the Commencement of that very efficient missionary Institution, an Institution which for its activity & vigor and the extent of its beneficial results & direct & collateral influences, is second to no other Mis. Society in the Christian Church - you have also from that unrivaled Institution, the British & Foreign Bible Society 124 vols. Embracing the different versions of the bible and parts of the Bible in 81 different Languages and Dialects, all of the first workmanship, literary and mechanical.
Correspondence was an important function of the Lyceum. Letters were received from and written to missionaries all over the world; ministers and members of other missionary societies also wrote to Wesleyan to acknowledge honorary memberships, and a student at Iowa Wesleyan University asked how to set up a missionary society similar to the Lyceum.
The correspondence of the Lyceum traces the origins of its missionary museum, later part of the Wesleyan Museum. Corresponding secretary, Daniel P. Kidder, wrote to the Reverend Mr. Spaulding on November 6, 1834, requesting his African curiosities to be housed with the society as the beginning of a museum. In 1835, Kidder sent a form letter to several missionaries, requesting information about their activities and artifacts for the museum. In 1840, Joyn Seys wrote from Monrovia (Liberia) that he had sent the Lyceum
. . . a box of shells, &c, which I beg the gentlemen of the Lyceum to accept of, and to place, if they consider them of sufficient value, among the other curiosities of their cabinet.
Dr. Fisk also wrote the Lyceum:
This society will aid the [missionary cause] . . . by . . . its Missionary Cabinet or Museum. In this you have already a good beginning; but we hope that the members of the society, both the graduates and undergraduates, will exert themselves to enlarge this museum.
Dr. Fisk was most influential in the dealings of the Lyceum and remained devoted to its objects until his death in l839.
The Lyceum's correspondence was varied. James Fulton of Shelbyville, Kentucky wrote six letters in 1835, one of which described what he had learned about methods of Chinese printing. Jonas King wrote from Constantinople on March 18, 1836, detailing his duties there and the hardships of life as a missionary. From his mission post in Rio de Janiero, Brazil, Daniel P. Kidder wrote in February, 1836, that Roman Catholicism seemed distressingly prevalent there, but that he was optimistic of converting people. Former Lyceum member, H.A. Wilson wrote from Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1841, conveying some frustration with his teaching duties in the mission there:
The school includes both sexes and hitherto have been accomodated in the same room. I had much rather have a school of one hundred in any part of New England than one of 50 in [Buenos Aires]. They are the most ungovernable set of children that I ever saw . . . When they are out of school . . . they run wild and require to be sassed in order to tame them down and ring them under any kind of discipline. School keeping here is truly a work of patience.
The Lyceum took an innovative step in 1848 by according honorary membership to a woman. Adelaide Fitzgerald of Middletown wrote on July 22 to acknowledge the honor and to thank the members of the Lyceum.
Although the Lyceum at times could boast of more than forty active members, its appeal declined somewhat in the 1850s. The led to an advertisement to members in the records book in 1858, proposing a new constitution, new amendments, by-laws and amendments to by-laws, in order to rejuvenate the almost inactive society. The last recorded minutes were for January 1871, and the last students to sign the roster were members of the class of 1873. The custom of annual commencement sermons delivered before the Lyceum continued until 1878, however.
In spring 1974, Professor Stephen Dyson of the Classics Department took his Introduction to Archaeology Class on a preliminary excavation in Lyman Orchards in Middlefield, Connecticut. This was a test to see if there was potential for an archaeology class based on fieldwork. The excavation was successful and archaeology classes continued to visit sites in Connecticut, particularly within Middlesex County.
The first time Wesleyan did a European excavation was in 1969 when it joined with Brown University in Buccino, Italy to excavate Roman villas. Later, in 1974, Dyson took a group of students to the town of Cosa, Italy for a dig. In 1982, Professor Stephen White of history and medieval studies and Clark Maines of art history coordinated with Dyson to take a Wesleyan crew to Soissons in France to study the Augustinian abbey of Saint-Jean-des-Vignes. These trips occurred during the summer and often times they would return for several consecutive summers.
As of 2008, the archaeology program continues conduct excavation labs within Middlesex county.
Lynn Smith Miller entered Wesleyan in the Fall of 1910 and graduated with the Class of 1914. At the time of his matriculation, his Freshman class was the largest in Wesleyan's history—a total of 121 students. While at Wesleyan, Miller was a member of Delta Upsilon (the Omega Phi chapter at Wesleyan). He graduated with a B.A.
Lynn Smith Miller was born on November 29, 1891 in Oneonta, New York to Merritt James Miller and Rita Louise Smith Miller. His older brother, Floyd Josiah Miller, also attended Wesleyan and graduated with the Class of 1907 with a B.A. in the Classics (Latin and Greek). Lynn Smith Miller was the president of his graduating class from high school—which consisted for six students—and was awarded Second Prize for General Scholarship. Having graduated high school at the age of 14, Miller would wait four years before matriculating to Wesleyan. During Miller's freshman year, he resided in North College (indicated by the abbreviation "N.C." in his diary—included in the collection) with his roommate William Munroe Dox, also of New York. Highlights of Miller's Wesleyan career included recreational basketball, baseball and tennis; attending Vespers and football games; participating in the "cannon scrap," which Miller's class won in their freshman year; and going to movies at the Nickel Theater and plays at the Middlesex Theater both in downtown Middletown.
After graduating from Wesleyan, Miller and his brother edited and managed the Spectator, a weekly newspaper serving an area of North Indianapolis, Indiana. Miller then joined the U.S. Army in July 1917 and served in World War I in the infantry. After the war, Lynn Smith Miller teamed up again with his brother Floyd and bought a small weekly newspaper in Royal Oak, Michigan on the outskirts of Detroit. When Detroit grew, so did the newspaper and soon its circulation was up to 60,000.
Miller was first married to Roxie Andrews on August 31, 1922, but later had the marriage annulled. He then married Marie Hellen Walcott Fritzinger on September 25, 1929 and had three sons with her. His son John W. Miller graduated Wesleyan with the Class of 1953. Lynn S. Miller died on January 26, 1962 in Royal Oak, Michigan.
The Monday Club was founded in 1892 for the wives of faculty, wives of resident trustees, wives of administrative officers, the associate librarian when a woman, and other female relatives living with faculty members. It was intended as an inclusive gathering in which each woman had an opportunity to serve as president. Members sought social and intellectual enjoyment through a variety of activities: reading of papers by members and guests, teas, musical programs, annual theme parties, and original skits. A topic was chosen each year as the intellectual theme for weekly programs during the academic year. The Monday Club served as one of the primary social gatherings for women in the Wesleyan community.
By the late 1960s, eligibility requirements and functions began to change, and membership included a broader group of women, including local professional women. The group stopped meeting in the mid-1990s.
Music has been part of the Wesleyan University experience since the early days of the institution. Known as a "singing college," Wesleyan inherited a tradition of music from the hymnody of its Methodist roots (see David B. Potts's Wesleyan University, 1831-1910: Collegiate Enterprise in New England). The first music performances at the university were organized by volunteers and sponsored by groups such as the Middlesex Musical Association. Beginning in the 1840s, glee clubs were created for special occasions, and in 1862 Wesleyan singers had their first public tour. In 1882 the university hired a professional musician as glee club coach, and the group gave standing-room-only public appearances, including an 1888 concert at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City. From the 1880s on, undergraduate students as well as alumni composed songs; these were collected in the Wesleyan Song Book, first published in 1901. Weekly sings took place on the chapel steps beginning in about 1901, and in about 1913 the university began offering a small stipend to students who participated in the chapel choir.
During the 1920s, the music program at Wesleyan became more formalized. In 1921, the Music and Dramatics Board was created to supervise musical and dramatic organizations and arrange concerts and trips. The university also offered its first course work in music. In the academic year 1925/26, Hugh L. Smith (class of 1915), an assistant professor in the Department of Romance Languages, offered a course on the history and appreciation of music. In 1928/29, courses in dramatic music and harmony were added. Then, in 1929, alumnus John Spencer Camp (class of 1878) donated a large sum to set up a chair of music at the university. Joseph Stephen Daltry was appointed to the newly endowed chair, and the Music Department was established.
The music program at Wesleyan continued to expand over the years. By the late 1940s, two professors--Joseph Daltry and George McManus--were offering about ten courses a year. In 1949, Richard Winslow (class of 1940) joined the staff. By the mid-1950s, singers performed not only with the Chapel Choir and Glee Club but also with the Choral Society, a male quartet called the Jibers, and a group of eight or nine called the Cardinals. The Wesleyan Band performed at football games and various campus affairs, and a woodwind and brass ensemble played several recitals a year. The Music Department, at that time housed in Judd Hall, had several sound-proof studios and an extensive collection of phonograph records. By the late 1960s, musical opportunities at the university included private lessons; the Wesleyan University concert series; the college orchestra, a "town-gown" organization; the Wesleyan String Quartet; and the Collegium Musicum, which performed medieval and Renaissance music.
A significant development in the music program that occurred around the middle of the twentieth century was the introduction of the study of music "as a universal phenomenon beyond the confines of Western European tradition" (Wesleyan University Bulletin, 1956/57). In 1956/57, associate professor David McAllester, an anthropologist whose specialty was the culture and music of the Navajo, first offered Music 31, Ethnic and Folk Music, in addition to the anthropology courses he taught in the Department of Psychology. In 1961, McAllester teamed up with Robert E. Brown, a specialist in the music of India, to teach classes in the university's new World Music Program. McAllester and Richard Winslow proposed an advanced program of study, and in 1966 the department began offering a doctorate in ethnomusicology in addition to undergraduate and master's degrees. By the 1970s, courses taught by resident and visiting members of the department's faculty covered Western classical, Afro-American, South Indian, North Indian, and Japanese music; the 1970/71 catalog listed some thirty-two courses and seminars in non-Western music. Study groups were organized focusing on the music of South India, Japan, Persia, Korea, and the Javanese gamelan.
In 1973, Wesleyan opened its Center for the Arts, a complex of eleven buildings housing undergraduate programs in art and art history, dance, theater, and music, as well as the graduate program in ethnomusicology. The Center comprises classrooms, galleries, and studios, and its music facilities include a recording studio, a computer and experimental music studio, Crowell Concert Hall, and World Music Hall.
The Music Department currently provides course work and performing opportunities in music from around the world. More than sixty courses are offered. A number of activities--including a variety of chamber ensembles and ensembles in Asian, African, American, and European traditions--are available to students. Music facilities include a collection of instruments from many different cultures; a music-instrument manufacturing workshop; a scores and recordings collection; and a world music archives. An ongoing departmental colloquium presents lectures on issues in the world of music by students, faculty, and outside speakers. In addition, the department sponsors events such as concerts by world-renowned jazz artists, the Wesleyan World Percussion Festival (2000), New England Gamelan Weekend (2002), the Celtic Routes Festival (2003), and the annual Navaratri Festival.
Music has been part of the Wesleyan University experience since the early days of the institution. Known as a "singing college," Wesleyan inherited a tradition of music from the hymnody of its Methodist roots (see David B. Potts's Wesleyan University, 1831-1910: Collegiate Enterprise in New England). The first music performances at the university were organized by volunteers and sponsored by groups such as the Middlesex Musical Association. Beginning in the 1840s, glee clubs were created for special occasions, and in 1862 Wesleyan singers had their first public tour. In 1882 the university hired a professional musician as glee club coach, and the group gave standing-room-only public appearances, including an 1888 concert at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City. From the 1880s on, undergraduate students as well as alumni composed songs; these were collected in the Wesleyan Song Book, first published in 1901. Weekly sings took place on the chapel steps beginning in about 1901, and in about 1913 the university began offering a small stipend to students who participated in the chapel choir.
During the 1920s, the music program at Wesleyan became more formalized. In 1921, the Music and Dramatics Board was created to supervise musical and dramatic organizations and arrange concerts and trips. The university also offered its first course work in music. In the academic year 1925/26, Hugh L. Smith (class of 1915), an assistant professor in the Department of Romance Languages, offered a course on the history and appreciation of music. In 1928/29, courses in dramatic music and harmony were added. Then, in 1929, alumnus John Spencer Camp (class of 1878) donated a large sum to set up a chair of music at the university. Joseph Stephen Daltry was appointed to the newly endowed chair, and the Music Department was established.
The music program at Wesleyan continued to expand over the years. By the late 1940s, two professors--Joseph Daltry and George McManus--were offering about ten courses a year. In 1949, Richard Winslow (class of 1940) joined the staff. By the mid-1950s, singers performed not only with the Chapel Choir and Glee Club but also with the Choral Society, a male quartet called the Jibers, and a group of eight or nine called the Cardinals. The Wesleyan Band performed at football games and various campus affairs, and a woodwind and brass ensemble played several recitals a year. The Music Department, at that time housed in Judd Hall, had several sound-proof studios and an extensive collection of phonograph records. By the late 1960s, musical opportunities at the university included private lessons; the Wesleyan University concert series; the college orchestra, a "town-gown" organization; the Wesleyan String Quartet; and the Collegium Musicum, which performed medieval and Renaissance music.
A significant development in the music program that occurred around the middle of the twentieth century was the introduction of the study of music "as a universal phenomenon beyond the confines of Western European tradition" (Wesleyan University Bulletin, 1956/57). In 1956/57, associate professor David McAllester, an anthropologist whose specialty was the culture and music of the Navajo, first offered Music 31, Ethnic and Folk Music, in addition to the anthropology courses he taught in the Department of Psychology. In 1961, McAllester teamed up with Robert E. Brown, a specialist in the music of India, to teach classes in the university's new World Music Program. McAllester and Richard Winslow proposed an advanced program of study, and in 1966 the department began offering a doctorate in ethnomusicology in addition to undergraduate and master's degrees. By the 1970s, courses taught by resident and visiting members of the department's faculty covered Western classical, Afro-American, South Indian, North Indian, and Japanese music; the 1970/71 catalog listed some thirty-two courses and seminars in non-Western music. Study groups were organized focusing on the music of South India, Japan, Persia, Korea, and the Javanese gamelan.
In 1973, Wesleyan opened its Center for the Arts, a complex of eleven buildings housing undergraduate programs in art and art history, dance, theater, and music, as well as the graduate program in ethnomusicology. The Center comprises classrooms, galleries, and studios, and its music facilities include a recording studio, a computer and experimental music studio, Crowell Concert Hall, and World Music Hall.
The Music Department currently provides course work and performing opportunities in music from around the world. More than sixty courses are offered. A number of activities--including a variety of chamber ensembles and ensembles in Asian, African, American, and European traditions--are available to students. Music facilities include a collection of instruments from many different cultures; a music-instrument manufacturing workshop; a scores and recordings collection; and a world music archives. An ongoing departmental colloquium presents lectures on issues in the world of music by students, faculty, and outside speakers. In addition, the department sponsors events such as concerts by world-renowned jazz artists, the Wesleyan World Percussion Festival (2000), New England Gamelan Weekend (2002), the Celtic Routes Festival (2003), and the annual Navaratri Festival.
Social Credit has been an economic theory, a social philosophy, an ideology, and a political party in England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States since it was first advanced in 1920 by Major C. H. Douglas. He believed finance capitalism deprived individuals of sufficient purchasing power to buy otherwise available products. To overcome this Douglas proposed offering to every citizen dividend payments based on the community's real wealth. As monetary reform and as social theory Social Credit attracted intellectual support in England and the United States especially during the 1930s. Only in Canada, however, did Social Credit become an important movement with a political base and there only in the provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, and Quebec.
In the United Kingdom:
In The Long Week End [The Long Week End: A Social History of Great Britain, 1918-1939 (New York: Macmillan, 1941), pp. 296-297], Robert Graves and Alan Hodge pointed out that the British proletariat between the wars was attracted by more plausible remedies than a revolution. One of the remedies to economic ills was Social Credit. Graves and Hodge continue:
Major C. H. Douglas, a retired Royal Engineer, had been propounding his theory of Social Credit in a series of books and pamphlets for over ten years. In the thirties a Social Credit party was formed; its members adopted the new political habit of wearing coloured shirts as uniforms, and chose green. The Daily Mail honoured the party with a mention in its Year Book for 1935. Serious economists criticized it in the serious weeklies, and T. S. Eliot, who had banking and commercial experience as well as literary eminence, welcomed it as a promising solution of the world's troubles. By 1935 the movement had spread to the Dominions. In Alberta, Canada, a Social Credit party was elected to the provincial legislature, pledged to distribute dollar bills periodically to the electorate. But like all economic plans, however sound in general theory, it could not be applied in a single isolated context, and many banking and business interests in Alberta took flight to other provinces of the Dominion; so that the Social Credit party, which was not even unanimous on practical policy, was starved into surrender.
The Social Credit plan was to distribute national dividends to everyone through the central banks. The basis of the value of these dividends was supposed to be the capital equipment and the energy possessed by the community. The present financial system, Major Douglas held, did not reflect the real credit of the community. To prove this, he developed a theory meant to show that some of the country's income was continuously lost by the interest charges of the banking system. Dividends for All would remedy this by bringing a country's purchasing power up to the level of its productive power. Social Credit took for granted that modern science enabled productive power to be increased limitlessly, even to the point of luxury for all. From this followed the first step in its argument: that only a lack of purchase power prevented the masses from enjoying the natural increase.
Serious people were glad to find a theory which seemed to provide a non-political solution for the world's troubles, the more so because the banks seemed the obvious scapegoats for the Depression. Not many people knew what was the function of banks, and the rest could easily be induced to look on them as concerns that exploited the public for the benefit of their directors. Major Douglas himself, however, pointed out that he regarded bankers not as dishonestly anti-social, but as victims of their own system. He wrote in 1934 of the necessity for exalting the individual over the group. I mean by that the exact opposite of what is commonly called Socialism. The direct road to the emancipation of the individual from the domination of the group is, in my opinion, the substitution, to an increasing extent, of the dividend in place of the wage and salary. Such words were more than welcome to people who feared that their lives would be exactly regulated by Socialist or Totalitarian economics; but neither the orthodox nor the Socialist economists had any difficulty in pointing out the flaws in his argument. The Social Credit theory was never adopted by any influential political group in Great Britain. It merely provided another controversial topic.
Although Social Credit attracted only a small following in Britain, its roots must be remembered to have been English. For this reason, brief sketches of the key men are included in these outlines, which will set the stage for a better understanding of the migration of Social Credit to Canada and to the United States.
CLIFFORD HUGH DOUGLAS, 1879-1952. An engineer with experience in India, Douglas attained the rank of major in the Royal Aircraft Establishment during World War I, retiring in 1918. His ideas on Social Credit were first advanced in articles in The English Review and The New Age. His earliest books were Economic Democracy in 1920 and Social Credit in 1924. Little is known either of his personal life or his professional career. Having had no training in economics, Douglas looked upon Social Credit as a total solution to the world's problems and, consequently, rejected such rival approaches as Guild Socialism, Fabianism, Socialism, or Bolshevism. He may be said to have opposed capitalism on economic grounds and Socialism on political grounds. Social Credit as an idea never escaped its founder's fear of political leadership which he coupled with a messianic approach and inept propaganda. Thus Douglas agreed to advise the Social Credit government in Alberta in 1935, but disagreements led quickly to his resignation. He corresponded with Munson and other Social Credit advocates in the United States and, in 1934, visited New York and Washington. That his style was enigmatic is shown by his belief in individual freedom while insisting, whenever invited to be active in an organization to promote Social Credit, on total power for himself. Thus in 1933, when asked to join the National Credit Association, Douglas demanded absolute authority, a Douglas veto over any proposed members of the conference, and a preliminary agenda committee appointed by Douglas personally. [John L. Finlay, The English Origins of Social Credit (Montreal and London: McGill-Queen's University Press, 1972), p. 133.] This flaw coupled with his anti-Semitism reduced his influence after 1935.
Major Douglas viewed payments made by a productive organization as falling into two groups. He labeled payments made to individuals Group A, those to other organizations Group B. This was explained, as can be seen below, but the A Plus B Theorem became a kind of shorthand for adherents of Social Credit, for Douglas advanced it as an indication and test of Social Credit genuineness. This is his explanation:
Group A--All payments made to individuals (wages, salaries and dividends). Group B--All payments made to other organizations (raw materials, bank charges, and other external costs). Now the rate of flow of purchasing power to individuals is represented by A, but since all payments go into prices the rate of flow of prices cannot be less than A + B. The product of any factory may be considered as something which the public ought to be able to buy, although in many cases it is an intermediate product of no use to individuals, but only to a subsequent manufacture; but since A will not purchase A + B, a proportion of the product at least equivalent to B must be distributed by some form of purchasing power which is not comprised in the descriptions grouped under A. It will be necessary at a a later stage to show that this additional purchasing power is provided by loan credits (bank overdrafts) or export credit. [Clifford Hugh Douglas, Credit-Power and Democracy (London: Cecil Palmer, 1920), p. 22; rev. ed. (London: Stanley Nott, 1934), pp. 19-20.]
ALFRED RICHARD ORAGE, 1873-1934. As editor of the influential New Age from 1907-1922, Orage gave the ideas of Social Credit their first continuous exposition. Orage opened its pages to Major Douglas beginning in 1918. He was important in both England and the United States as a spokesman and interpreter of Social Credit thereafter. After 1922, Orage was drawn to Georgi Gurdjieff's psychological method for the harmonious development of man. In 1932 he founded the New English Weekly, as a Social Credit organ. [See Herbert B. Grimsditch, A. R. Orage, Dictionary of National Biography, 1931-1940, Oxford University Press, 1949, p. 659. For excerpts from Orage's writings, see Wallace Martin, ed., Orage as Critic (London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1974.)]
H. E. B. LUDHAM. A Coventry printer prominent in a rightwing split in the Social Credit movement that began at the Swanwick conference in 1925. This group, which also included Frederick Soddy, a Nobel laureate in chemistry, and Arthur Kitson, called itself the Economic Freedom League. Ludham edited the League's journal, the Age of Plenty. Favoring centralization and political action, Ludham stood for election in the 1938 Coventry municipal election and lost. In the late 1920s and in the 1930s, Ludham became associated with John Strachey and Sir Oswald Mosley of the British Union of Fascists. (See Finlay, English Origins, pp. 126-29, 206, 211.)
JOHN HARGRAVE, 1894-1982. A man of great personal force, unorthodox in the fullest sense, greatly interested in monetary reform, Hargrave did not come to an awareness of Social Credit until 1927. Earlier he was interested in scouting and led such off-beat organizations as the White Fox, Wa-Whaw-Goosh and the Kibbo Kift. Courted by social crediters running the New Age as well as by the rival Economic Freedom League in its columns in the Age of Plenty, Hargrave tended toward the former but favored mass action through a Third Line between Fascism and Communism. He quickly became the most prominent social credit man in England, apart from Douglas, leading a movement with a succession of different titles: the Economic Party, 1929-1930; the Crusader Legion in Coventry, 1930-1933; an inner elite known as the Iron Guard and then as the Green Shirts; the Green Shirt Movement for Social Credit, 1933-1935; and finally, the Social Credit Party of Great Britain. Traditionally antiparliamentary, the Social Credit Party ran a candidate for the House of Commons in South Leeds but gained only 11 per cent of the vote. Hargrave feuded with Douglas, and the Green Shirts, in uniform, broke up a Social Credit reception for one of Douglas's Hargrave had become an hysterical mystic, and the militant Green Shirts was largely ended by the Public Order Act outlawing the use of uniforms for political purposes. For some years, Hargrave edited This Week's Message from Hargrave. He rejected both Fascism and Communism and believed that only a monarch could stand up to the conspiracy of the money trust and, on this ground, took the side of Edward VIII in the abdication crisis of 1937. (See Finlay, English Origins, chapter 7.)
In Canada
The best concise summary of the kindling of Social Credit in Canada is to be found in The Oxford Companion to Canadian History and Literature, by Norah Story (Toronto, London, New York: Oxford University Press, 1967, p. 772), quoted here in full:
Social Credit Party. A popular movement, led by William Aberhart, that won the Alberta provincial election in 1935, it was disciplined into a political party that has remained in power in Alberta, has invaded the federal field, and has spread to other provinces. It came into power in British Columbia in 1952.
The intricate monetary scheme and social philosophy known as social credit was enunciated in England by Maj. Clifford Douglas. At the instigation of William Irvine, Douglas was brought to Canada in 1923 where he was invited to explain his views to the House of Commons' Select Committee on Banking and Commerce. He made a poor impression on all but the UFA (United Farmers of Alberta) members, who distributed social credit in their province. The theory of social credit was brought to the attention of William Aberhart, a high-school principal in Calgary whose Sunday radio broadcasts as head of the fundamentalist Prophetic Bible Institute had a large and enthusiastic following. In 1932 Aberhart began to introduce his own vague theories of social credit into these broadcasts, recommending a redistribution of purchasing power and later, as head of the Social Credit Party, promising a social dividend of $25 a month to every citizen. Followers of Douglas attacked his interpretation, and the resulting public debate and paper warfare stimulated public interest. In 1934 Douglas was brought to Alberta as 'reconstruction adviser' to the UFA government. This move created an outpouring of sentiment on behalf of Aberhart. Social Credit candidates were selected in the constituencies, but Aberhart personally chose which of these should stand. They swept the province in the election of 1935 and Aberhart became the premier.
Acts passed in Alberta in 1937 to implement social credit monetary theories were disallowed by the federal government or declared unconstitutional. The Social Credit Bill of Rights, passed under Aberhart's successor, E. C. Manning, was appealed to the privy council where it too was declared unconstitutional. These decisions have given impetus to campaigning for seats in parliament in the hope that, with a majority, the constitution could be amended. The party gained 17 federal seats in 1935. Thereafter membership fluctuated until 1958 when no member was elected, but 30 seats were won in 1962 and 24 in 1963 when the representation was weakened by the members from Quebec who organized as a separate group.
ABERHART SOCIAL CREDIT DOCTRINE. The conditions of life in Alberta during the Great Depression made social credit attractive: they also modified the ideas of Douglas. The class makeup of Alberta and the debtor position there had produced a tradition of looking for monetary cures to economic troubles. Additionally there was a strong predilection for prophetic religion so that a leader of Aberhart's charismatic traits easily gained a large following. These three circumstances made Alberta, as a community, far more receptive than was England to a monetary reform doctrine with spiritual overtones. They made it possible for social credit to become a mass movement, and in so doing ensured the vulgarization of the social and economic doctrine of Major Douglas. [C. B. Macpherson, Democracy in Alberta: The Theory and Practice of a Quasi-Party System. (Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1953), p. 148.] Aberhart reduced the Douglas doctrine to the simple points of A plus B, the unearned increment, the basic dividend, and the just price.
ALBERTA SOCIAL CREDIT PROGRAM, 1935-1943. As premier of the first social credit government in the world for eight years, William Aberhart's program has been characterized as politically radical but economically conservative. He and his constituents wished to divorce themselves from the central government in Ottawa without making profound changes in Alberta. Three key measures were enacted in 1937: (1) the Credit of Alberta Regulation Act, (2) the Bank Employees Civil Rights Act, and (3) the Judicature Act Amendment Act. A stunning thing then happened. Under its federal system, the central government in Ottawa disallowed these provincial statutes and this was upheld in rulings of the Canadian Supreme Court and the British Privy Council. There is much more to the story, but in 1938 the essence of the Social Credit program was dead. It meant that Aberhart's program of social credit eventually failed even in name. [J. R. Mallory, Social Credit and the Federal Power in Canada. (Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1954), pp. 57-90.]
SOCIAL CREDIT IN CANADA, 1943-1976. With a hold on Alberta established, Social Credit developed branches in other provinces, first in Saskatchewan and then in British Columbia where it came to power in 1952. [See Martin Robin, The Social Basis of Party Politics in British Columbia, in H. G. Thorburn, ed., Party Politics in Canada, 2nd ed. (Scarborough, Ont.: Prentice-Hall of Canada, Ltd., 1967), pp. 201-211.] At the provincial level in recent years, the Social Credit Party has shown significant strength in Alberta, British Columbia and Quebec. In federal elections its chief strength has been in Quebec where 20 per cent of the total vote has been won, while elsewhere Social Credit has fallen to less than 5 per cent. [For a close examination of the appeal and success of Social Credit in the 1962 elections in Quebec Province, see Maurice Pinard, The Rise of a Third Party: A Study in Crisis Politics (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1971). For a sociological and political study, see Michael Stein, The Dynamics of Right-Wing Protest: A Political Analysis of Social Credit in Quebec (Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1973).]
In the United States
The Social Credit ideas of Major C. H. Douglas were adopted in the United States by a small group of intellectuals who advanced this monetary reform from 1932 to 1945 through a succession of small organizations and publications. Electoral support was never sought as in Canada. The early influences were from Ezra Pound, the self-exiled poet and A. R. Orage, the English editor who lived in the United States in the twenties. Pound first wrote about the wisdom of Major Douglas in The Little Review in April 1920. He became a zealous advocate of Social Credit and influenced such figures as William Carlos Williams and, later, James Laughlin IV. Orage's influence is difficult to calculate, but his impact on artists and writers in New York was profound, as they have attested. He cultivated an American readership for his Social Credit journal, The New English Weekly, founded in 1932. More than any other single element, this publication marked the beginning of the organized study of Social Credit in the United States.
Gorham Munson was the most eloquent and durable Social Credit leader in the United States. In 1932, he became American correspondent for The New English Weekly, defended Social Credit in The Nation and helped form a key Social Credit organization, the New Economics Group of New York. In 1933 he initiated a vital Social Credit journal of the arts and public affairs, New Democracy, and was its chief editor during its three-year life. Beginning in 1935, Munson was an active lobbyist working with such congressmen as T. Alan Goldsborough and Jerry F. Voorhis in seeking national Social Credit legislation. During the middle thirties there were short lived or temporary organizations, national in scope, that espoused Social Credit, among them the National Social Credit Association, the League for National Dividends and the Committee in Support of H. R. 7188. In 1938 Munson led convinced Social Crediters in the formation of a more permanent organization, the American Social Credit Movement (ASCM), for which he served as General Secretary throughout its existence from 1938 to 1945.
ASCM encountered several difficulties in spreading Social Credit in the United States. Its membership was limited to persons subscribing to the Douglas Theorem and three specific national legislative goals, which meant that some independent Social Crediters and hosts of plain money reformers were excluded. Social Credit bills in Congress were diluted and became progressively less satisfactory to the ASCM. New Deal reforms and the coming of World War II lessened interest in basic economic change. Some money reformers, including Ezra Pound and Major Douglas, became loudly anti-Semitic. This Munson dealt with squarely and courageously but, even so, the Social Credit movement in the United States ended, chiefly due to the War.
In 1945 Munson published a book entitled Aladdin's Lamp: The Wealth of the American People summing up his critique of the private monopoly of banks which held down the credit power of the American people.
THE ROLE OF A. R. ORAGE, 1931-1934. The importance of A. R. Orage in the Social Credit movement in England has been remarked upon above. This exceptional man also played an important role in the formation of the movement among American intellectuals as a sponsor of the ideas of the Gurdjieff system. This occurred during the late 1920s when he travelled between New York and Fontainebleau. In New York he organized groups for instruction in the Gurdjieff system and there met Gorham Munson, Elizabeth Delza, Margaret Anderson, Jane Heap, Van Wyck Brooks, Lawrence S. Morris and others. At the depth of the Great Depression Orage again drew upon his knowledge of Social Credit to win American intellectuals to this view, as Munson has recalled: Shortly before the end of his American stay, Orage took the initiative and rented a room at the New York School of the Theatre to give a series of four lectures on Social Credit in the early part of 1931. About fifty enrolled to hear his plea that Financial Credit reflect Real Credit. He also struck a note for increasing the distribution of leisure, defined as the economic condition of voluntary activity. Orage left the United States soon afterwards to return to England where he established the New English Weekly. In New York a study group under the leadership of Schuyler Jackson began meeting at Muriel Draper's home, and from this group of enthusiasts came the founders of the New Economics Group of New York in the fall of 1932. [Gorham Munson, The Awakening Twenties, Brom Weber, editor, Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, forthcoming 1977.]
NEW ENGLISH WEEKLY, 1932-1947. Begun in London on April 21, 1932, the New English Weekly under A. R. Orage sought a wide audience for its Social Credit message. Major Douglas, Ezra Pound and Orage--whom T. S. Eliot called a tireless and wholly disinterested evangelist of monetary reform--were frequently featured. NEW was a clearinghouse for the movement through its Credit Forum carrying organizational news from all countries. Gorham Munson was on the masthead from the very first issue as American Representative. Through its circulation here Munson helped crystallize activity for Social Credit in the United States. [See Gorham Munson, American Intelligentsia, Advance, New English Weekly, Vol. 2, Dec. 29, 1932.]
NEW ECONOMICS GROUP OF NEW YORK, 1932-1938. A number of valuable functions were performed by the New Economics Group of New York following its formation in December, 1932. Its study meetings broadened knowledge of Social Credit. It sponsored and provided editorial and business offices for New Democracy. Its technical committee drafted the National Credit Issue Bill, a model for bills introduced for legislative consideration in Washington, London, and Ottawa. It conducted major public lectures on the subject of Social Credit: Archibald MacLeish in 1933, Major C. H. Douglas in 1934, and the Very Reverent Hewlett Johnson, Dean of Canterbury in 1935. Board members included Allan R. Brown, Blanche Brownell Grant, Paul Hampden, Elizabeth Sage Holter, Lawrence Morris, Gorham Munson, and W. A. Nyland. After 1935 the New Economics Group of New York experienced a decline caused in part by personal disagreements and factionalism.
NEW DEMOCRACY, 1933-1936. A fortnightly and later monthly review of economics and the arts, New Democracy was published in New York for three years beginning August 15, 1933. Its announced policy was Social Credit in the United States at the earliest possible date. To achieve this, New Democracy's columns were packed full with Social Credit -- news notes, articles, poems, letters, book reviews and organizational items. This review also published major documents of the movement in the United States: the text of speeches by Major douglas and the Dean of Canterbury, the Goldsborough Social Credit Bill and significant commentary. Gorham Munson was the editor throughout the three years, joined by Herbert Bruce Brougham in 1933-1934, by Lawrence Morris in 1934-1935, and by Paul Hampden and Elliott Taylor in 1935-1936. W. A. Nyland of the New Economics Group of New York was the publisher.
NEW DIRECTIONS, 1935-1936. Under Munson, New Democracy in its final year of publication included a distinguished literary page with the title New Directions, edited by James Laughlin IV. Scion of the Pittsburgh steel family, in 1935 a student at Harvard, Laughlin had been introduced to Munson by Ezra Pound. He opened the page with this declaration: New Directions. The great new direction is, of course, Social Credit, with its changed conception of the means, and the ends of life. Not all contributions dealt with economics or Social Credit, however, as Laughlin published T. S. Eliot, Marianne Moore, Henry Miller, e. e. cummings and Kay Boyle. Pound's great Bank of England CANTO, XLVI, which Laughlin called definitely the epic of Social Credit, was published in the March, 1936 issue of New Democracy. The literary page ended, but its name was adopted by Laughlin for his avant-garde New Directions publishing house.
NATIONAL SOCIAL CREDIT ASSOCIATION, 1934-1935. In 1934 W. A. Nyland of the New Economics Group of New York tried to federate local organizations across the United States into the National Social Credit Association. His capacity for leadership was insufficient, and established local independence prevailed. Philadelphia's Retail Discount Organization, formed in 1931 and led by Edward F. Harvey, was the oldest Social Credit local in the country. Others were New Economics Groups led by Social Credit pioneers: Herbert Bruce Brougham in Washington, Mrs. E. Sohier Welch in Boston, Luther Whiteman in San Francisco, J. Crate Larkin in Buffalo, and A. M. Edwards in Detroit. There were smaller groups in Carmel, Los Gatos, and Pasadena, California; West Palm Beach, Florida; Peekskill, New York; and Colorado Springs, Colorado. These organizations continued even after the National Social Credit Association failed in 1935.
LEAGUE FOR NATIONAL DIVIDENDS, 1935-1936. Formed in San Francisco in June 1935, by Elliott Taylor, editor of the magazine Controversy, the League for National Dividends aimed to build up a mass-demand for the issuance to al of national dividends. Following the Social Credit sweep in Alberta Province on August 22, 1935, and the introduction of the Goldsborough Bill in Congress, the headquarters of the League for National Dividends was moved to the offices of New Democracy in New York. Soon Gorham Munson was Acting Secretary, council members included Howard Buck, Walter Hampden and William Carlos Williams, and the League spoke militantly: WANTED: SOCIAL CREDIT SHOCK TROOPS. Low productivity was attributed to the lack of consumer purchasing power. The League argued that new money must be issued by the Government as potential production warrants it. There is no evidence of a rise of interest in Social Credit on account of the League. There were only brief hearings on the Goldsborough Bill and 1935, and by August 1936, the League for National Dividends had dissolved.
GOLDSBOROUGH SOCIAL CREDIT BILL, H.R. 9216, 74th CONGRESS, 1935-1936. Congressman T. Alan Goldsborough (D., Md.) in August 1935, sponsored the first bill embodying Social Credit principles to be introduced in any legislative body in the United States. This was largely in the form drafted by a committee of the New Economics Group of New York consisting of Allan R. Brown, Edward F. Harvey, W. A. Nyland, Carle C. Conway, Jr., and H. B. Brougham. Its short title was the National Income and Credit Issue Bill introduced on August 22 and, as Brougham wrote in New Democracy, embodying the tenets of Douglas without any frills. The bill presents straight out Social Credit measures. It would establish the National Credit Account, defined in Title I as the money valuation of the annual unused capacity of the industries and people of the United States to produce wanted goods and services. The Treasury would produce non-interest bearing credit certificates, not to exceed the National Credit Account, to circulate as money throughout the banking system only. These certificates would finance a discount on prices to consumers at retail. They would also provide a national per capita consumers dividend of $5.00 a month. This consumers' dividend and other features of the bill would be administered by an independent regulatory agency called the Federal Credit Commission. Should the Commission records show an unduly expanded monetary condition then a Credit Retirement Fund would set aside a portion of national revenues to retire Treasury credit certificates. The bill was discussed and analyzed at length in New Democracy, advocated by the League for National Dividends and, with Goldsborough as the ranking member of the House Committee on Banking and Currency, there were brief hearings on H.R. 9216 in the 74th Congress. On this occasion, Paul Hampden testified for the Social Credit bill at the invitation of Goldsborough. The bill lapsed at the end of the 1936 session.
COMMITTEE IN SUPPORT OF H.R. 7188, 1937-1938. Twenty Social Crediters formed the ad hoc Committee in Support of H.R. 7188, to lobby for Goldsborough's revised bill in the 76th Congress, 1937-1938. The final report of the Committee's Secretary, Gorham Munson, describes the frustrations experienced in seeking Social Credit legislation. The bill, H.R. 7188, had several basic weaknesses: it neglected the crucial fact of an inherent shortage of money in consumers' hands and it presented the retail price discount as merely an emergency device for economic slumps to be snapped off on recovery. Although Munson twice testified, the hearings were not satisfactory from his viewpoint. Leading Social Credit figures who were members of the Committee in Support of H.R. 7188--Wallace Clark, Raymond Haight, J. Crate Larkin, C. E. Luntz, Allan T. Gwathmey and Elliott Taylor--did not appear. Yet, three whom Munson regarded as eclectic Social Crediters--Allan R. Brown, Herbert Bruce Brougham and Edward F. Harvey--participated in the hearings. Munson interviewed several congressmen in Washington. Paul Hampden acted as technical adviser to the Committee. Mrs. E. Sohier Welch served as Treasurer. Despite disappointment, Munson praised the efforts of Congressman Goldsborough and concluded that future legislative efforts should not allow compromise with Social Credit Principles.
AMERICAN SOCIAL CREDIT MOVEMENT, 1938-1945. The culminating voluntary association promoting Social Credit in the United States was the American Social Credit Movement, founded on October 5, 1938. Gorham Munson was General Secretary. Paul Hampden served as Acting Secretary while Munson was on leave in Washington, 1939-1940. ASCM sought public support but limited its membership strictly to those who after sufficient acquaintance with the ideas of Social Credit are prepared to subscribe to the Theorem and the Three Demands. As a result of experience with the second Goldsborough Bill, the three demands were to establish the Federal Credit Commission, the Compensated Price and the National Dividend. Eclectic money reformers were thus excluded and membership in ASCM never reached one hundred. The American Social Credit Movement maintained a book service, sponsored lectures and study meetings, issued weekly bulletins and worked for legislation. Munson cooperated with Representative Jerry F. Voorhis (D., Cal.) in framing Social Credit bills in 1939-1940, 1941-1942 and 1943-1944. He also prepared a special series of bulletins on Social Credit called Men First. Activities diminished after 1942 and ceased altogether in 1945.
WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS AND SOCIAL CREDIT, 1933-1941. The Rutherford, New Jersey, physician and poet William Carlos Williams (1883-1963) was a member of most of the Social Credit organizations led by Gorham Munson. Williams was persuaded to his Social Credit beliefs by Ezra Pound. He wrote for New Democracy, heard Major Douglas speak in New York in 1934, and was a member of the League for National Dividends and the American Social Credit Movement. Wile Williams had a continuing interest in Social Credit, he was not a very active participant in the organizations he joined. Williams joined Munson, Laughlin, Walter, Paul Hampden, and others in 1936 and the University of Virginia where he attacked bankers and declared that money reform would bestow cultural benefits. Pound's addiction to Fascism and Douglas's to anti-Semitism made Williams flee the Social Credit movement. [A good study is Reed Whittemore, William Carlos Williams: Poet from Jersey (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1975), pp. 259-264.]
EZRA POUND AND SOCIAL CREDIT, 1920-1945. American poet Ezra Pound (1885-1971) in the 1920s and 1930s argued insistently in prose and verse that usura, or credit capitalism, was the root of all evil in the world and Douglas Social Credit reforms was the best cure. This view permeated most of his writings especially the middle Cantos, of which CANTO XLV on usury, and CANTO XLVI on the Bank of England published in New Democracy are noteworthy. In 1920, he reviewed Douglas's Economic Democracy for an American audience in The Little Review. He wrote regularly for New Democracy, and numerous letters harangued Munson about Mussolini, Roosevelt, the New Deal, bankers, Jews and Social Credit. Pound left the United States in 1908, lived in England until 1920, in Paris until 1928, and Rapallo, Italy until 1945. After 1937, Munson did not think Pound to be a real Social Crediter. Pound attached himself to Social Credit while dabbling in other theories of money reforms. Because of his fascination with the Corporate State, and his ultimate lapse into anti-Semitism, he gave Social Credit a black eye. On account of paid broadcasts to American troops and related overt acts in wartime with the intent to adhere to and give aid and comfort to the Kingdom of Italy, and its military allies, Pound was indicted by the United States for felonious, traitorous and treasonable actions. Removed to Washington, Pound was found mentally incompetent to stand trial and so was confined to St. Elizabeth's Hospital from 1945 to 1958 when he was allowed to return to his home in Rapallo. [For some works explaining the context of Pound's economic thought, see Earle Davis, Vision Fugitive: Ezra Pound and Economics (Lawrence, Kansas: University Press of Kansas, 1968); Hugh Kenner, The Pound Era (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1971); C. David Heymann, Ezra Pound: The Last Rower (New York: Viking Press, 1976).]
ANTI-SEMITISM IN SOCIAL CREDIT, 1938-1941. Gorham Munson led the American Social Credit Movement in repudiating those money reformers guilty of anti-Semitism by linking usury, banking and Jews together. ASCM took this official position:
American Social Credit stands for the liberty and equality of opportunity of the individual irrespective of race, creed or color. We abominate anti-Semitism. The Money Question and the so-called Jewish Question have NOTHING to do with each other and we will let no one confuse this fact.
Munson was obliged to apply this principle to Major C. H. Douglas, the originator of Social Credit, in 1938 and he did so with dispatch, disowning Douglas for anti-Semitism while staying pledged to Douglas economics. Munson also shed all responsibility for Ezra Pound well before the United States entered World War II. Munson was an outspoken critic of anti-Semitism in private correspondence and in public statements. [See Gorham Munson, A New Attack on Anti-Semitism, Opinion: A Journal of Jewish Life and Letters, September 1939.]
ALADDIN'S LAMP, 1945. As ASCM activities lessened during World War II, Munson completed a book criticizing the banking-credit system and advocating Social Credit as a vitally needed reform. The book, entitled Aladdin's Lamp: The Wealth of the American People, won favorable reviews and many laudatory letters. Its publication in the spring of 1945 marked the end of Munson's active advocacy of Social Credit and of the American Social Credit Movement. Munson had occasion, in answering a friendly letter questioning the value of Social Credit, to sum up his feelings about the reform he had championed actively since 1932:
Social Credit is not a cure-all. Our dogmatism goes only this far: we assert that credit reform must have priority over any other reforms; we assert it is fundamental. We can then tackle with some hope of success other bad features of capitalism. Beyond this are the psychological problems of the good life to which Social Credit provides no key. Even with Social Credit human nature would be plenty troublesome. But I do not think it would act, as does chronic money shortage, to whip people up to greed and war. On the contrary, it would give humane education a real chance--but only a chance. It can't accomplish what is ultimately the function of culture. [GM to H. W. Cross, August 19, 1945.]
Gorham Munson Biography
1896 Born May 26, Amityville, New York. Mother, Carrie (Morrow) Munson. Father, Hubert Barney Munson, Wesleyan class of 1892, and a Methodist minister.
1917 Graduated Wesleyan University. During his senior year, managed the Dramatic Association and was editor of the Wesleyan Literary Monthly. Sold his first article, based on his undergraduate thesis, on the Socialist conception of morality.
1917-1919 Taught English at the Ridgefield (Connecticut) School and at the Riverdale Country School in New York.
1919-1921 Lived in Greenwich Village and, with Hart Crane, Waldo Frank, and Jean Toomer, formed a literary group whose basic interests were in a new slope of consciousness.
1921 Married Elizabeth Delza of New York City, a professional dancer and teacher of dance, April 2.
1921-1925 Traveled and studied in Europe, living in Paris for a time. In Vienna in 1922, founded the little magazine Secession in collaboration with Matthew Josephson and Kenneth Burke. The magazine was published for two years, 1922-1924. Contributors included Crane, Frank, e. e. cummings, Malcolm Cowley, Marianne Moore, Wallace Stevens, and William Carlos Williams.
1926-1928 Editorial work: Grant Publications, Psychology magazine, and Bookman magazine.
1927-1966 Began teaching courses on literary topics at The New School for Social Research in New York city in 1927. In 1931, began experimenting with a workshop course in professional writing. This popular course, among the five best-attended, was repeated twice a year for more than thirty years.
1928-1950 Summer Writers' Conference Movement: Taught criticism for 13 sessions as a staff member of the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference at Middlebury College. For many years, wrote the annual preview of writers' conferences for the Saturday Review of Literature. A staff member of conferences at the University of New Hampshire, University of Connecticut, University of Colorado, University of Washington, and the Southwest Writers' Conference. Director of the University of Kansas City Writers' Conference, New York City Writers' Conference at Staten Island (Wagner College) and the Fairleigh Dickinson Writers' Conference.
1928-1960 Book Editor: Advisor to John Farrar, Doubleday, Doran, prior to Farrar's establishment of Farrar & Rinehart. Advisory editor with Thomas Y. Crowell beginning in 1934. Managing editor, national office, WPA Writers' Program, 1939-1940, and head of Library of Congress WPA Writers' Project, 1940-1941. Associate editor, Robert M. McBride & Company, 1941. Editor, Greystone Press, 1942-1943, Prentice-Hall, 1944-1948, Hermitage House, 1951-1955, and Thomas Nelson & Sons, 1955-1960.
1932-1945 Social Credit: Leading advocate of monetary reform through adoption of the principles of Social Credit. Founding member of New Economics Group of New York and the National Social Credit Association. American correspondent of the New English Weekly, 1932-1941. Editor, New Democracy, 1933-1936. General Secretary, American Social Credit Movement, 1938-1945. Author, Aladdin's Lamp: The Wealth of the American People, 1945.
1961-1966 Assistant Professor of English, Fairleigh Dickinson.
1966-1967 Senior Lecturer in English, University of California at Davis.
1967-1968 Fellow, Center for Advanced Studies, Wesleyan University.
1968-1969 Distinguished Visiting Professor of English, University of Hartford.
1969 Died, August 15, Middletown, Connecticut.
The Wesleyan Museum (1871-1957) was an integral part of the science curriculum at Wesleyan University. Materials collected by faculty, students, and other donors were intended to help students study the natural world. Materials collected included shells, rocks, fossils, wood specimens, mineral specimens, birds, fish, animals, insects, and dried plants. In addition, American Indian artifacts, coins, certain artworks, and a mummy also found a home in the museum. Wesleyan closely followed the 19th century curiosity cabinet model of natural history museums.
The Museum opened on the third and fourth floors of Judd Hall in 1871. By the end of the decade, a number of students and faculty members were using the museum's materials in their research. It later expanded into some rooms on the second floor of the building in 1886. In the late 1880s, the museum added a focus on ethnological collections, related to humans.
Towards the end of the 1890s, the institution's interest in the museum lessened, with less funding allocated. The museum moved out of the second floor of Judd Hall. New faculty preferred laboratory work to studying museum specimens, and the museum became less relevant to the curriculum. The Museum remained open but largely unused in the curriculum.
In 1938, the museum had an official re-opening to signify renewed interest in the museum. Funds were allocated for repairs and remodeling. School groups regularly toured the museum, and were perhaps its primary visitors until the Museum closed in 1957.
When the Wesleyan Museum closed, there were thousands of specimens to disperse. Many went to the Smithsonian Institution; others were donated or put on loan to Connecticut institutions. Some of the materials were divided up among science departments at Wesleyan. Other materials were dispersed to storage locations across campus, often without a record of the transfer.
In the 1970s, some faculty took an interest in cataloging the materials within their own departments, especially archaeological and anthropological materials. The museum's mummy came to national prominence in the late 1970s when it was unwrapped and studied by Professor Stephen Dyson.
Wesleyan University hosted both V-5 and V-12 Naval Training Units on its campus during World War II. The V-5 Unit was also called the Navy Flight Preparatory School, and stayed at Wesleyan from January 1943 until August 1944. Coursework focused on aerology and naval science. The V-12 Unit, also known as the Navy College Training Program, began in July 1943 and included coursework more akin to Wesleyan's traditional liberal arts curriculum. The program continued until the end of World War II in August 1945.
Wesleyan University was founded in 1831 in Middletown, Conn. Originally a small Methodist institution for men, with a student body of 48, it had by the end of the 19th century admitted both male and female students for a population of 339.
Stephen Henry Olinwas born in 1847 on the Wesleyan University campus while his father, Stephen Olin, served as its second president. Olin compiled this scrapbook when he was 13 years old, presumably as an admirer of the Gallant Seventh.
After graduating from Wesleyan University in 1866, Olin graduated from the Law School of the University of Albany and began practicing as a lawyer in 1869. His law practice centered on issues of copyright and trademark, particularly in literary publications. Olin was a trustee of Wesleyan University from 1880 to 1925, and in 1922 he also served as acting president of the university.
The Parley Committee of 1930 described the Wesleyan Parley as follows: This parley is offered to the friends, guests and students of Wesleyan with the basic assumption that we as students have no prerogative to be utterly carefree or completely cloistered from the stress and flux of affairs 'off-campus.' We believe that without scorning campus interests a student may wisely concern himself with the interwoven political and economic forces that have given his people prosperity - and in turn have given him his Alma Mater.
In a day when our government is groping through new and bewildering mazes, it seems no more than decently sporting that we students grapple these problems…Though in some campus circles this is treason, we cordially invite you to make the most of it.
Wesleyan parleys were arranged by the Parley Committee of the College Body (the student government) with secretarial assistance from the Christian Association. The Parley Committee generally consisted of four to ten students, along with faculty help until 1930. The annual conferences featured scholars from around the country discussing some of the day's most controversial and important topics, including labor, crime, race, marriage, and foreign policy. The tradition of Wesleyan Parleys began in 1924 and lasted until about the early 1960s.
Chronology List
Items marked with an asterisk (*) have accompanying scrapbooks.
1924-1925 College Life and Society
1925-1926 American College Education
1926-1927 American College Education
1927-1928 Symposium on Religion
1928-1929 Parley on War
1929-1930 *American Government and Business
1930-1931 *Parley on Crime
1931-1932 *Parley on Disarmament
1932-1933 *Parley on Marriage
1933-1934 *Parley on Race Relations
1934-1935 *Parley on Political Philosophies
1935-1936 *Parley on Labor Relations
1936-1937 *Parley on Marriage
1937-1938 *Parley on Higher Education in a Democracy
1938-1939 Parley on Inter-fraternity Relations (preliminary College Body Parley)
1938-1939 *Parley on American Foreign Policy
1939-1940 *Parley on the Political Issues in the Coming Election
1940-1941 *Parley on Marriage
1941-1942 *Parley on the Part of College Youth in the Post-War World
1946-1947 *Parley on Marriage
1947-1948 *Parley on Labor-Management Relations
1948-1949 *Parley on the United States and World Affairs
1949-1950 *Parley on Civil Liberties and American Minorities
1950-1951 Parley on Communism in a Democratic World
1952-1953 The Future of American Conservatism
1955-1956 India Today
1956-1957 The New Middle East
1958-1959 War and Peace in the Space Age
1959-1960 Parley on Social Responsibility in Labor Relations
1959-1960 The Face of American Morality
1960-1961 The South in Search of Itself
1961-1962 Government Secrecy in a Free Society
1962-1963 The Future of American Labor
1963-1964 Humor in Politics
1964-1965 Modern Dance, Music, and Theater
1965-1966 Future of the Civil Rights Movement
On February 24, 1845 a vote was passed by the Connecticut Alpha of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, establishing its ninth chapter at Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT.
The Physiological Society of Wesleyan University was a direct response to Grahamism, a movement concentrating on regulating diet and lifestyle to temper impulsiveness, mental health, and sexuality. Grahamites practiced a strict vegetarian diet, also cutting out sugar, white bread, and most importantly, alcohol. The Grahamist movement was inspired by American reformer Sylvester Graham, who in 1829 invented Graham bread, today know as the Graham cracker. Graham wrote extensively for his followers, but his best known works were the Lectures on the Science of Human Life (Boston, 1839), and Lectures to Young Men on Chastity. The ties that Wesleyan’s Physiological Society held to the Grahamist movement are evidenced by an announcement of the club's inception in the 1839 edition of The Graham Journal of Health and Longevity, as well as in the Society’s own records. The Society appears to have disbanded for good sometime in April 1844, seven years before Sylvester Graham's own death and a subsequent decrease in Grahamism's popularity.
This collection of poetry is comprised of information regarding the poetry presented at the Honors College. The Honors College, housed in Russell House, was a program for distinguished students in the Wesleyan community. In addition to informal lectures by young men and women distinguished in the arts, sciences, and professions, the Honors College hosted for its members (and later, the public) a series of music concerts and poetry readings by distinguished, young American poets beginning in either 1964 or 1965. The poetry series at the Honors College also came to include an opportunity for Wesleyan students to share their own work for an audience. In April of 1984, the Honors College hosted an anniversary poetry festival with over 30 poets participating to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Wesleyan Press Poetry Program.
Another large part of this collection is the work with the Connecticut Poetry Circuit. The Connecticut Poetry Circuit is a non-profit organization that provides three poetry reading programs for colleges and some preparatory schools. The Connecticut Poetry Circuit was founded as the New England Poetry Circuit in 1963, but after August, 1968, the New England Poetry Circuit split into the New England Poetry Circuit and the Connecticut Poetry Circuit. The intention of the circuit was to bring established yet unpublished poets to colleges and universities, as well as a competition among students throughout Connecticut to travel the circuit as student poets. The winners of the competition (usually four students, sometimes five) are chosen by a selection committee to tour the state reading their poetry. The first group of student poets to tour around Connecticut was in 1970. While not a major part of the poetry circuit, the Connecticut Commission on the Arts awards grant money to the circuit to allow for the poets to tour. The connection between the Connecticut Poetry Circuit and Wesleyan University is that Jean Maynard, the assistant director of the Honors College, was the director of the Connecticut Poetry Circuit. She organized the committee to select the student poets, as well as find and invite poets to join the circuit.
Professional Poets at the Honors College
1966-1967
Bink Noll
A.R. Ammons
Jon Silken
Adrienne Rich
1967-1968
Richard Howard
Donald Petersen
Edward Weismiller
F.D. Reeve
James Scully
Marge Piercy
Philip Levine
Richard Wilbur
1968-1969
Tony Connor
Michael Benedict
James Wright
William Jay Smith
William Meredith
Mark Strand
Gray Burr
Leonard Nathan
Barbara Howes
John Montague
Vito Hannibal Acconci
1969-1970
Louis Simpson
Charles Levendosky
James Seay
Thomas Kinsella
Gwendolyn Brooks
Daryl Hine
Richard Tillinghast
Anne Stevenson
Ken Smith
Robert Peters
1970-1971
Michael Hamburger
Stanley Burnshaw
Michael Goldman
Dugan Gilman
John Haines
Anthony Hecht
Phyllis Thompson
Clarence Major
William Harmon
Philip Appleman
1971-1972
Tony Connor
W.S. Merwin
Irving Feldman
Derek Walcott
Richard Wilbur
The Blue Cat
 Michael Harper
Andrew Gaus
Edmund Helminski
1972-1973
Carolyn Kizer
Robert Huff
Donald D. Walsh
Lawrence Lipking
Richard Howard
Wilbert Snow
Peter Klappert
Thom Gunn
1973-1974
Lucille Clifton
Josephine Miles
James Tate
Rex Warner
Rosemarie & Keith Waldrop
Christopher Montgomery
Maxine Kumin
William Jay Smith
Constance Carrier
Robert Penn Warren
1974-1975
Richard Wilbur
Robert Fitzgerald
Muriel Rukeyser
Thomas Kinsella
Marge Piercy
William Heyen
Robert Siegel
John Ormand
1975-1976
Denise Levertov
Brendan Galvin
Robert Francis
Michael Hamburger
Charles Wright
Calvin Forbes
John Hollander
1976-1977
Mark Strand
 Charles Simic
John Ashbery
Peter Fallon
F.D. Reeve
Samuel Hazo
David Walker
Patrizia Cavalli
Judith Minty
Leon Forrest
Michael Harper
1977-1978
Tony Connor
Margaret Atwood
Richard Hugo
Brendan Kennelly
Ellen Bryant Voigt
Ruth Stone
Thom Gunn
Robert Hayden
Michael Harper
Richard Eberhart
1978-1979
Richard Willar
Linda Pastan
 Derek Walcott
Robert Morgan
F.D. Reeve
Ricardo Alonso
Stephen Policoff
Judith Hemschemeyer
Frank Bidart
Galway Kinnell
1979-1980
Mark Strand
Vernon Yang
Steve Orlen
Lucien Stryk
Robert Pinsky
William Stafford
Diana Der Hovanessian
James Merrill
Alfred Corn
Annie Dillard
1980-1981
Edmond Jabès
Tony Connor
Rosemarie Waldrop
Daniel Haberman
Robert Fitzgerald
Philip Martin
John Peck
Daniel Hoffman
William Meredith
Sherley Anne Williams
Linda Pastan
Irving Feldman
1981-1982
Richard Wilbur
Tony Connor
Wilbert Snow
Charles Olson
Constance Carrier
Elizabeth Spires
Robert Neal
Norma Blacke-Bragg
Dean Holmes
Donald Justice
Jane Cooper
Richard Tillinghast
Allen Grossman
Judith Moffett
John Malcolm Brinnin
1982-1983
Alastair Reid
Katha Pollitt
Galway Kinnell
Gillian Clarke
John Ormond
Robert Minhinnick
William Jay Smith
F.D. Reeve
Seamus Heany
J.D. McClatchy
Charles Wright
1983-1984
James Merrill
David Ferry
Brendan Galvin
Tony Connor
Brad Leithauser
James Tate
George Starbuck
Robert Bly
Yehuda Amichai
Derek Walcott
April 1984
25th Anniversary Poetry Festival:
James Dickey
Richard Howard
Sherman Hawkins
Susan Mitchell
Jean Maynard
Richard Tillinghast
Robert Brown
Garrett Hongo
Bonnie Costello
Charles Wright
David Ingatow
Carl Viggiani
Mark Schafer
Tony Connor
David Lehman
Margaret Gibson
Gertrude Hughes
Annie Dillard
Louis Simpson
Grace Shulman
Richard Stamelman
Harvey Shapiro
Richard Wilbur
Richard Katrovas
Jonathan Galassi
Yusef Komunyakaa
Brendan Galvin
Colleen McElroy
Krishna Winston
Hilary Mullins
Collin Camobell
Norman Shapiro
James Tate
1984-1985
John Tranter
Amy Clampett
John Haines
Norman Shapiro
Rosanne Coggeshall
Philip Levine
Robert Mezey
Dave Smith
Joseph Brodsy
Lisel Mueller
1985-1986
Liam Rector
Harvey Shapiro
Charles Simic
Joanne Burns
Pi O
Geoff Page
John A. Scott
George Garrett
Rachel Hadas
Sharon Olds
Peter Davison
John Ash
T. Carmi
Richard Katartrovis
Brad Leithauser
1986-1987
Sandra Mcpherson
Michael Collier
Marilyn Wanick
Neely Bruce reads Gertrude Stein
Gjertrud Schnackenberg
Edmond Jabès
Dana Gioia
David Ingatow
Richard Wilbur
Tony Connor
1987-1988
Mark Anderson
Mark Schafer
Laurie Duggan
Helen Garner
Michael Heyward
Susan Mitchell
Rennie McQuilkin
Michael Standon
Mary Jo Salter
Charles Wright
David Lehman
Yusef Komunyakaa
Dick Allen
1988-1989
James Merrill
Nancy Willard
Wendy Larsen
Tran Thi Nga
Richard Kenney
J.D. Reeve
Judith Baumel
James Tate
Katha Pollitt
Wesleyan Student Poets
1967-1968
John Barlow
Andrew Gaus
Edmund Helminski
Lynn T. Kozlowski
Jeff Wanshel
Michael Wolfe
1968-1969
John Barlow
Frank Cobb
Lynn T. Kozlowski
Cedric Noble
Jeff Wanshel
1969-1970
Georgia Sassen
Andrew Elden
Allan Gray
Paul Maynard
Richard Noble
Stephen Policoff
1970-1971
Connie Balides
Frederick Lord
John Marlone
Geoffrey Rips
Kit Royce
Robert Ulreich
1971-1972
Kate Ballen
Michael Carlson
John Cox
Bonnie Krueger
Frank Levering
Steven Pope
Steven Soria
Nathaniel White
1972-1973
Tim Bahti
Kate Ballen
Michel de Konkoly Thege
John Martone
Cedric Noble
Caroline Sutton
1973-1974
Barbara Bachtell
Norma Bragg
Peng Khvan Fong
Jennifer Gage
Robert Lake
1974-1975
Bill Aronstein
Carol Cooper
John Jackson
Seth Lerer
Jill Rips
Stan Sutton
1975-1976
Stephen Alter
Bonnie Bernstein
Dean Holmes
Jerry McGuire
Ruth Pachman
Ellen Marks
Nina Shengold
Tracy Winn
Michael Minard
1976-1977
Elissa Ely
Judith Harway
James Skofield
David Wisdo
1977-1978
Nola Butler
Michael Dorsey
Bryna Goodman
Beverly Hinton
Elaine Tietjen
Elizabeth Weiss
1978-1979
Christopher Breyer
Robert Chance
Elizabeth Dunn
Candace Payne
Edwina Trentham
Stephen Ward
1979-1980
Christopher Breyer
Michael Collins
Kenneth Haltman
Cynthia Jaffee
Lisa Kaufman
1980-1981
Cori Adler
Paul Margolis
Alan Botsford
Becky Shuster
James Marcus
John Stanizzi
1981-1982
Julia Croston
David Frankfurter
Jennifer Montgomery
Virginia Rye
Clara Silverstein
1982-1983
Susan Lepseiter
David Lorey
Catalina Rios
Kirsten Wasson
1983-1984
Nancy Daley
Hilary Mullins
Jon Sadowsky
Liz Solar
Molly Willey
1984-1985
Lisa Cook
Evelyn Gonzales
Rachel Kaplin
Spencer Reece
Scott Sager
Mark Shafer
1985-1986
David Aronson
Marcy North
Karin Schalm
Elizabeth Zsuga
1986-1987
Antonio Jocson
Naomi Mezey
Amy Schwartz
Matthew Weiner
1987-1988
Bethany Casarjian
Nicole Grieco
Cameron Gearen
Lisa Nash
Antonio Jocson
1988-1989
Laura Michelle Cherry
Daniel Handler
Arthur Halpern
Ezra Fred Tawil
Adina Hoffman
Student Poets on the Connecticut Poetry Circuit
1970
Gayle Jones- Connecticut College
Raymond A. Biasotti- University of Bridgeport
Stephen Policoff- Wesleyan University
Daniel Santhouse- University of Connecticut
1971
D.W. Donzella- University of Bridgeport
Theodore James Guhl- Central Connecticut State University
John Maynard- Wesleyan University
Don Shambroom- Yale University
1972
Katherine Royce- Wesleyan University
Leonard Marcus- Yale University
Sarah Meisner- Manchester Community College
Raja Changez Sultan- Trinity College
February 1973
Rika Lesser- Yale University
Frank Levering- Wesleyan University
Shelley Strohm- Manchester Community College
Chase Twichell- Trinity College
February 1974
Elizabeth Egloff- Trinity College
Peter Kerr- Jarreti- Yale University
Jerry McGuire- Manchester Community College
David Weinstock- Wesleyan University
1975
Michael Collier- Connecticut College
Dederick Finne- Yale University
Binnie Klein- University of Bridgeport
James Stefon- Mohegan Community College
1976
Robin Green- University of Bridgeport
Dean Holmes- Wesleyan University
Melinda Kahn- Yale University
Philip Paradis- Central Connecticut State University
1977
Nina Shengold- Wesleyan University
Starry Schor- Yale University
Elizabeth Tyson- Trinity College
Nina George- Connecticut College
1977-1978
Madelyn Flammia- University of Bridgeport
Susan Ralph Jackman- University of Connecticut
Mark Malone- Western Connecticut State University
John Stanizzi- Manchester Community College
1978-1979
Allan Garry- Mohegan Community College
Langdon Hammer- Yale University
Vincent Kay- Central Connecticut State University
Judith Shaw- Trinity College
1980
Carolyn Abbott- Connecticut College
Jon Davis- University of Bridgeport
Martha Hollander- Yale University
Amy Pattullo- Wesleyan University
1981
Particia Daddona- Connecticut College
Nancy Kamm- Manchester Community College
David Leavitt- Yale University
Michael Lohnes- Southern Connecticut State
Maddy Sheinberg- University of Bridgeport
1982
Cori Adler- Wesleyan University
Robert Breen- Fairfield University
John Carey- University of Connecticut
Elena Vira- Trinity College
1983
Barbara Browning- Yale University
Cheryl Bouteneff- Central Connecticut State
Ted Lord- Trinity College
Francis Drapeau- Fairfield University
Doug Swift- University of Bridgeport
1983-1984
Kaci Kinne- Connecticut College
Dale Mantautas- Trinity College
Lisa Mierzejewski- Central Connecticut State
Mark Shafer- Wesleyan University
Claude Solnik- Southern Connecticut State
1984
James Aquilino- Southern Central Community College
Thomas Curtis- Connecticut College
Mara Eilenberg- Trinity College
Carol Foster- Hartfold College for Women
1985-1986
Meg Bishop- Trinity College
Jane Mendelsohn- Yale University
Anne Minicozzi- University of Hartford
Ralph Savarese- Wesleyan University
1986-1987
John Hamlett Barker- Yale University
Mary Kane- University of Connecticut
Joseph Pandolfo- Eastern Connecticut State
Karin Schalm- Wesleyan University
1987-1988
Nan Cohen- Yale University
Anne de Kay- Mohegan Community College
Claudia Grandi- Manchester Community College
Antonio Jocson- Wesleyan University
Susan Pfeil- University of Bridgeport
1988-1989
Adina Hoffman- Wesleyan University
Sung-San Hong- Trinity College
Monica Prasad- Yale University
John Stambaugh- University of Bridgeport
1990
Hanneli Ansel- Mohengan Community College
Lawrence Berger- Yale University
Robin Delman- Wesleyan University
Kimberly Peters- Trinity College
Khan Wong- University of Connecticut
The Press Archives began at Wesleyan University in 1952 with a grant from Gannett Foundation. After three years the project lapsed, but was re-started around 1958 by professor Sigmund Neumann. He intended the Press Archives to be a resource for students and faculty in the then-new Public Affairs Center.
In a 1962 index of materials in the Archives, Jane K. Parker, Curator, wrote The purpose of the Press Archives is to collect and organize material from newspapers into subject headings of primary interest to various departments on campus. These articles, clipped, pasted, and filed, constitute research material for faculty and students who are interested in following contemporary, day by day developments and reactions to current problems and concerns.
According to a 1975 note, the Press Archives ceased operation upon Neumann's death in October 1962, and the contents were eventually transferred to a faculty member at what is now Central Connecticut State University.
Wesleyan University was founded in 1831 in Middletown, Connecticut.
The Public Relations Office, which was later called Office of Public Information and Publications, was responsible for communicating news and achievements at Wesleyan University to the local, state, and national media. This office was later folded into the University Relations department.
Daniel Curtis Rand was born February 1, 1820, and grew up in Charleston, New Hampshire. He attended from Kimball Union Academy in Meriden, New Hampshire, and graduated with the class of 1839. Rand attended Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut, and graduated in the class of 1843. After a short traveling tour in New York and Connecticut he settled in Middletown for a little while longer and worked with his sister Lucia at the powder mill his family owned. An informal ledger of mill accounts can be found in the middle section of Rand's journal. Rand eventually settled in Pittsford, New York where he opened his own powder mill, manufacturing blasting powder used in New York stone quarries and Pennsylvania coal mines, in addition to regular gun powder. Rand entered into a business partnership with Mortimer Wadhams, and they named their plant Rand and Wadhams Manufacturing of Mining, Blasting and Sporting Powder. It remained so until 1900 when it was renamed the D. C. Rand Powder Co. Daniel married Wadhams' daughter Stella in 1864, and the couple had four sons, Mortimer, Robert, Samuel, and Phillip, and three daughters, Lucia, Lucy, and Stella. Upon Rand's death, Stella and her 14-year-old son Phillip took over the business, which continued to operate until about 1910 after a series of unfortunate explosions. The site of the Rands' home was called Oakridge, and this property is now a part of a county park, aptly named Powder Mills Park.
Born in 1845, William North Rice, of Springfield, Massachusetts, entered Wesleyan University in August 1861 at the age of fifteen. He graduated in 1865 as the valedictorian of his class, and went on to the Sheffield Scientific School at Yale University to receive the first Ph.D. awarded in the United States in geology in 1867. After further study in Europe, he returned to Wesleyan to teach natural science courses, a very new field in the existing academic world of Greek and Latin literature and mathematics.
He served as Professor of Geology and Natural History, 1868-1884; G.I. Seney Professor of Geology, 1884-1918; G.I. Seney Professor of Geology Emeritus, 1918-1928; and as acting president of the university, 1907, 1908-1909, and 1918. He died 13 November 1928, after a 67-year association with Wesleyan.
Rice was distinguished not only for his knowledge of geological formations throughout the mountains of Connecticut and Massachusetts, but also for his many publications and sermons as a Methodist minister.
In addition, Rice was a prolific writer. Along with several books, he wrote dozens of sermons and lectures which were published in newspapers and journals. He was a frequent contributor to Zion's Herald, a religious publication of the Boston Wesleyan Association, as well as to other religious and secular newspapers. His writings often dealt with the conflict many people experienced, in the first half-century after the publication of Darwin's Origin of the Species, between new scientific thought and Biblical tradition. Other lectures and sermons were strictly theological in nature.
In 1923, the Rosa Club was founded by the members of the defunct Radio Club. The Rosa Physics Club was named for an Wesleyan alumnus, Edward B. Rosa, class of 1886, a physicist, and physics professor. The purpose of the Rosa Club was to promote an interest in physics and its applications, and this collection documents the club's existence from 1923 until 1952. The club was made up of physics students and a few professors. There were annual officer elections each May for the executive committee positions of faculty representative and student president, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer, who was the student responsible for taking the minutes of each meeting. According to the minutes, there were requirements to be part of the club, mostly in regard to the number or level of classes taken in the physics department, meaning that the members were exclusively physics majors, mostly juniors and seniors, although any physics graduate students and professors were welcome to join the club. The meetings were held twice a month, and each meeting included a report of the previous meeting, new business, a presentation of some scientific news, and a speaker, often a professor or student presenting research.
Alfred S. Roe was a 20-year-old schoolteacher in Middleville, Herkimer Co., New York when he enlisted in the war. He was the son of a Methodist minister. He served with Company A, Ninth New York Heavy Artillery, from January 1864 to June 1865. Roe was captured by Early's troops in the Battle of Monocacy, Maryland, July 9, 1864, and was imprisoned at Danville, Virginia, for nearly eight months. He then attended Wesleyan University, from which he graduated 1870. After graduating from Wesleyan, Alfred Roe went on to be principal of the high schools in Ashland, MA and Worcester, MA. He served as a representative in the Massachusetts Legislature and as a state senator. He also authored Histories of Rose, N.Y., Worcester in the Spanish War and edited Worcester Light and Worcester Magazine. He married Nora A. Metcalf of Ashland, MA on June 22, 1874, and they had four children.
Phyllis Rose (born 1942) was a professor of English at Wesleyan University from 1969 until her retirement in 2005. She received a BA from Radcliff College, MA from Yale, PhD from Harvard, and an MAAE from Wesleyan University. She is the author of three biographical works: Woman of Letters: A Life of Virginia Woolf (1978), Parallel Lives: Five Victorian Marriages (1983), and Jazz Cleopatra: Josephine Baker in Her Time (1989). She has also authored two collections of essays and reviews and her memoirs entitled The Year of Reading Proust (1997), and edited the Norton Book of Women's Lives (1993). She is a contributing writer to many publications including the New York Times Book Review, The Sophisticated Traveler, and Civilization Magazine, and is on the editorial board of The American Scholar.
Marjorie Suzanne Rice Daltry Rosenbaum was born on May 10, 1921 in Hartford, CT to Louis Haskell Rice and Guilelma Murray Rice, and was the older sister of Charles Murray Rice. She was a resident of Connecticut her entire life, and lived in West Hartford until relocating to Middletown in the 1950s. She attended school within the West Hartford public school system until her graduation from Hall High School. In 1943, she graduated with a BA from Radcliffe College in Cambridge, MA, with a major in English and a minor in music.
After graduating from college, she returned to West Hartford and took up a teaching position at Sedgwick Junior High School. She remained there until 1957 as the chairman of the English department and as an instructor of both choral music and social studies. While at Sedgwick, she also completed a Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) in music, theatre, and art in 1955 at Wesleyan University. In doing so, Marjorie became one of the original graduates of Wesleyan's Graduate Liberal Studies Program (GLSP). During her life, Marjorie also completed additional graduate work at Harvard University, the University of Connecticut, and Central Connecticut State College.
Between 1957 and 1973, Marjorie continued to teach in the West Hartford, Haddam, and Middletown public schools until she retired in June 1973 after 30 years of service. She also performed in and directed a number of concerts and musicals in both a professional and recreational capacity. A number of these productions were in Wesleyan's student run '92 Theatre or for the Theatre Department including The Tempest, a Cole Porter concert, and a number of cabarets. She also made the Broadway cast of Kiss Me Kate, which came to Broadway in 1948.
In 1956, she married Joseph S. Daltry, founder, chairman, and first instructor of the Music Department at Wesleyan University and director of the MALS program. The two remained together until Joseph S. Daltry's death in 1967 at age 68.
She did not just dedicate her life to teaching within an established system, but sought to create a new and better educational experience for students within the public school system. To this end, she founded C.A.U.S.E. (Community And University Services for Education) in 1967. C.A.U.S.E. was set up as a cooperative program meant to facilitate projects between Wesleyan University and the Middletown community and public and private schools in the area. She felt that a university, any university, owed something to the community it was in. By 1980, C.A.U.S.E. had either been involved in or supported over 45 distinct programs to support the schools in the Middletown area. These projects ranged from breakfast programs, to enrichment summer school, to art and dance programs, and adult education. She remained C.A.U.S.E.'s principal strength throughout her life. She later became chief administrator of Wesleyan's Educational Studies Program from 1973-1985.
She remarried Wesleyan Professor Emeritus of Science and Mathematics Robert A. Rosenbaum and remained with him until her death on October 20, 2013 in Delta, Colorado. Marjorie was a woman who always gave back and always sought to make the experience of others as beneficial and exciting as possible. As her obituary in the Hartford Courant wrote, "She was a woman of cultured substance, demonstrative presence, and memorable performance."
This collection concerns Phase II of the Science Center. Phase I was the construction of Hall-Atwater Laboratory, which was completed in 1967, preceding the rest of the center. The project began when Victor Butterfield was President. In the mid-1960s, the student population of the University was augmented by 510, approaching the population of the 1990s-2000s. Wesleyan had to meet the need to accommodate more students than the previous Hall Laboratory could, as well as meet competitive standards in the fields of science. These two factors justified the cost of the new Science Center, which in the end was approximately 18 million dollars. Phase II was completed in 1970 and the Science Library switched from the Cutter classification system to the Library of Congress classification system. In 2002 the Science Center was dedicated to Charles E. Exley, Jr., class of 1951, for his generous contributions to the University.
Chronology List
1892 Born, Bethany MN, August 11.
1915 A.B., University of Wisconsin. Phi Beta Kappa.
1916 Works for the YMCA for two years.
1918 Serves in the Navy for one year.
1919 Teaches at Senior High School, Butler PA, until 1926.
1926 Wallace Fellow in Political Science, University of Pittsburgh.
1927 M.A., University of Pittsburgh.
1927-1930 Instructor in Government, Columbia University.
1929-1930 Assistant Professor of Political Science, New Jersey College for Women (now Rutgers University)
1930-1935 Assistant Professor of Government, Wesleyan University
1935 Ph.D., Columbia University.
1935-1939 Associate Professor of Government, Wesleyan University.
1938-1940 Member, City Council, Middletown CT.
1939-1960 John E. Andrus Professor of Government, Wesleyan University.
1940-1946 Member, [Connecticut] State Board of Mediation and Arbitration.
1944-1952 Member, Board of Directors, The Rockfall Corporation, Middletown CT.
1946-1951 Consultant Editor, Rinehart & Co.
August 1949 Travels to Germany as a visiting expert for the U.S. Army of Occupation.
1949-1950 Visiting professor at Syracuse University supervising the studies of 20 visiting German students.
1949 Chair, Committee on Political Parties, American Political Science Association. Report of the committee was published in 1950 as Toward a More Responsible Two-Party System.
1950-1955 Member, Board of Directors, Long Lane School, Middletown CT. President of Board, 1953-1955.
1951 Chair, Governor's Commission of Community Adjustment Problems.
1953-1954 Vice-president, American Political Science Association.
1955-1961 Chair, Public Affairs Center, Wesleyan University.
1955 Receives Moravian College Annual Alumni Award.
1956-1957 President, American Political Science Association.
1956-1962 Member, Board of Trustees, National Center for Education in Politics.
1957-1961 Chairman, Board of Directors, Citizenship Clearing House, an organization that encourages college students to enter politics.
1958 Receives Freedom Foundation award for Democracy as a Moral System, a television discussion with Julian Hartt of Yale University.
1960-1971 Professor Emeritus of Government, Wesleyan University. Taught courses at Wesleyan through 1970.
1960 Receives L.L.D. degree [honorary], Moravian College.
1967-1968 Member, Charter Study Commission, Old Saybrook, CT.
1969 Receives James L. McConaughy Memorial Award, Wesleyan Alumni Council.
March 4, 1971 Dies.
Second Stage is an organization of students at Wesleyan University dedicated to producing theater and other performances. Founded in 1973 by Jan Eliasberg (class of 1974) with Samuel Miller (class of 1975), it originated as an alternative to Theater Department productions. In 1973, the Wesleyan Theater Department moved from the '92 Theater building (now known as the '92 Patricelli Theater) into the new Center for the Arts theater. This made it possible for Second Stage to use the '92 Theater space , and they frequently staged noontime performances of theater, music, and poetry. Second Stage soon began to produce full-length shows, with each production running for several days.
The mostly volunteer student group manages the administration, staging, finances, and selection of approximately thirty-five shows each academic year. Second Stage provides an opportunity for aspiring playwrights, directors, actors, and technicians to stage their very own productions. Many, but not all, of the fifteen or so Second Stage staff members are theater majors. A Managing Liaison, a Building/Maintenance Liaison, and a Lighting and Rigging Liaison, the only paid members of Second Stage, serve as links to the Theater Department, which does not have oversight of the group. However, the department and Second Stage work closely together, sharing facilities and equipment. Second Stage is funded by the Wesleyan Student Assembly, and the paid staff members are funded by the Theater Department.
Dr. H. Kenneth Shook received a bachelor's degree from Western Maryland College and was a 1954 graduate of the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program at Wesleyan University. He served as director of admissions and financial aid at Western Maryland College from 1958 to 1975, then as Executive Director of the Maryland State Scholarship Board. He later taught high school before retirement.
Shanklin Laboratory at Wesleyan University was originally built in the late 1920s, finished in 1928. The funds for the building were donated by the friends of late University president William Arnold Shanklin, and its construction was part of a 1.25 million dollar building initiative on campus. The Shanklin renovation initiative (beginning in 1963) was a result of the University’s decision to increase the size of the student body by 510, and to put a greater emphasis on scientific research and competitive science programming. Additionally, the University was pushing forward a huge building plan for the new Science Center (renamed Exley Science Center in 2002), which broke ground in 1965. The Shanklin renovations were completed in pieces; most phases were done room by room as funds became available. Accordingly, many of the papers in this collection are correspondence between individual professors and administrators lobbying for personal offices and labs to be renovated and updated. A summary of all renovations completed year-by-year can be found in Folder 17 (Subseries 5.1: Planning Correspondence).
Mark Slobin is the Winslow-Kaplan Professor of Music at Wesleyan University.
Willis Kimball Stetson, son of Daniel Kimball Stetson and Mary Weeks Sanborn Stetson, born 1858 and died 1942. After graduating from Wesleyan University, Class of 1881, he taught public school in Ansonia, CT then became the Assistant Librarian and Librarian at Wesleyan University from 1882 to 1887. Willis Kimball Stetson married Lillian Minor and had three children: John Minor Stetson (born 1887), George Albert Stetson (born 1889) and Mary Mead Stetson (born 1891). Margaret Buell Allen is the daughter of Frederick G. and Mary Mead Stetson Allen. There is no accompanying biographical information regarding the Minor family photographs or other Stetson family member photographs.
Jean Stafford (1915-1979) was a Pulitzer Prize winning writer of novels, short stories, non-fiction, and children's literature. She spent the 1964-1965 academic year as a resident fellow in the Center for Advanced Studies at Wesleyan University.
Nathan Comfort Starr was born in Eau Claire, Wisconsin in 1896. He received degrees from Harvard and Oxford Universities. It was a class at Harvard, taught by G. H. Maynadier, which first piqued Starr's interest in the Arthurian legends. He would go on to teach courses in Arthurian literature and write King Arthur Today: The Arthurian Legend in English and American Literature, 1901-1953, a study of modern Arthurian adaptations. During his career, Starr taught English at Harvard, Radcliffe College, Colgate University, St. John's University, Rollins College, Williams College, and the University of Florida. He was a member of the Grolier Club in New York, and exhibited a number of items from his Arthuriana collection there in 1972. Starr passed away in 1981 at the age of 84.
Sheila Tobias was born in Brooklyn, New York, on April 26, 1935. She received a B.A. in history and literature from Radcliffe College in 1957, and an M.A. and M. Phil. in history from Columbia University in 1961 and 1974, respectively.
During the early 1960s, Tobias held positions in journalism and education. From 1967 to 1970, she was assistant to the vice president for Academic Affairs at Cornell University, with special emphasis on implementing the Kahn-Bowers report on undergraduate education. As part of what was first thought to be a "January Term" activity, she launched one of the first women's studies courses later to become one of the first women's studies programs in the country.
In 1970, she became associate provost at Wesleyan University. Her primary administrative focus was on helping Wesleyan make the transition to coeducation for a second time (the first period of coeducation was 1872-1909), which began in 1968. This included the hiring of women faculty and other key personnel. She also co-organized a New England-wide Higher Education Resource Service for women academic professionals, which later grew into the HERS Bryn Mawr Summer Institute for Women in Higher Education Administration. She taught American Studies 210, "Gender and Politics," "Men and Women in Wartime." In 1978, she left Wesleyan to become director of the Math Anxiety (training trainers/dissemination) Project, Washington School of Psychiatry.
Since 1978, Tobias has worked as an educational consultant, engaging in a research and writing assignment for the Research Corporation, working for the Sloan Foundation in its development of the professional science master's degree, and conducting a long term association with the Universities of Leiden and Amsterdam in the Netherlands, among many other activities.
Samuel Miller Tuthill (January 7, 1919-December 6, 2005) was a 1939 graduate of Wesleyan University. He remained at Wesleyan for two years as an instructor and earned his master's degree in Chemistry in 1941. That year, he moved to St. Louis to begin a job with the Mallinckrodt Chemical Works. He remained with the company until his retirement in 1981, leaving only to earn his Ph.D. at Ohio State University from 1945 to 1948.
Chronology List
1888, July 7 Born, Newark, New Jersey
1901-1905 Attended Newark Public High School. Class president each of four years. Graduated, 1905.
1905-1906 Worked outdoors for a year with a surveying crew of the Lackawanna Railroad in New Jersey.
1906-1910 Wesleyan University Undergraduate. With his savings from working with the railroad and additional financial support from an aunt, Vanderbilt entered Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut. He became a campus leader, and among his achievements were editorship of the Argus, the campus newspaper, and membership in Phi Beta Kappa. He also founded and managed the Debate Council. Fraternally, Vanderbilt was an active member of Delta Kappa Epsilon. In his senior year, he was elected president of both his class and the college body. Vanderbilt completed work for both the A.B. and A.M. degrees in four years. At the inauguration of Dr. William A. Shanklin on November 12, 1909 as the tenth president of Wesleyan, Vanderbilt spoke for his fellow students. A festive occasion, he shared the platform at the Middlesex Opera House with such national notables as President William Howard Taft, Vice President James Schoolcraft Sherman and United States Senator Elihu Root of New York
1910-1913 Attended Columbia Law School. Taught classes in the Newark Evening High School during this period. LL.B., Columbia, June, 1913.
1914, September Married Florence J. Althen of Newark. There were five children, three daughters and twin sons.
1913-1947
Law Practice. Before admission to the Bar, Vanderbilt clerked in the Newark law firm of Sommer, Colby and Whiting. In 1913, upon admission to the Bar, he practiced for two years with Jerome T. Congleton, later to serve as Mayor of Newark. From 1915 to 1947, Vanderbilt engaged in individual practice in Newark.
Vanderbilt's practice largely represented fire insurance companies, corporations, and banks. He was engaged in equity receiverships, particularly the Virginia Carolina Chemical Company case in 1923-1925. He was founder and Chairman of the Board of the Public Fire Insurance Company and the Public Indemnity Company, both of Newark, New Jersey from 1928 to 1933, and served on the board of directors of various banks, and corporations. An increasing amount of his professional work came from other lawyers and, hence, he became known as a "lawyer's lawyer."
Served as New Jersey's counsel for the Port of New York Authority from 1926 to 1927.
Trial and appellate work continued through all these years. These included notable civil liberties cases. In the Paterson textile strike of 1926 Vanderbilt represented Roger N. Baldwin, Secretary of the American Civil Liberties Union, and won this early state case upholding the constitutional right of public assembly. [State v. Butterworth, 104 N.J.L. 579, 142 A. 57 (1928).] Ten years later Vanderbilt defended the durable Socialist leader Norman Thomas in a free speech case arising out of Frank Hague's efforts to control Jersey City. This case of Thomas v. Casey, 121 N.J.L. 185, 1 A.2d 866 (1939) was among the cases linked to the landmark on public meetings of Hague v. C.I.O., 307 U.S. 496 (1939). [Clark, "Conservatism and Civil Liberty," American Bar Association Journal 24 (Aug. 1938), 640.]
During the 1930s Vanderbilt was among the most active lawyers in trial and appellate litigation in the country. Between 1928 and 1932 he argued twenty-one cases before the New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals and won them all. He successfully represented claims of teachers without tenure in Seidel v. Ventnor City, 110 N.J.L. 31, 164 A. 901 (1932) and in Downs v. Hoboken Board of Education, 113 N.J.L. 401, 181 A. 688 (1935). He was a specialist in municipal law, handled anti-trust matters, and dealt with a major government contracts case during World War II. [Copies of all court briefs prepared by Arthur T. Vanderbilt are bound and shelved in the law firm of Toner, Vanderbilt & Toner, 554 South Livingston Avenue, Livingston, N. J. 07039.]
Association with the Pepsi-Cola Company began in September 1938 as the result of a ruling in a proxy fight by Chancellor Josiah O. Wolcott in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Seven directors were then placed in control of the company: six named by the litigating parties, three for each side, and the seventh by the Chancellor. "As the seventh Director -- the man who obviously would have the controlling vote on contested matters--the Chancellor named Mr. Arthur T. Vanderbilt." He played varied roles as a director, as Chairman of the Board and as counsel to the Pepsi-Cola Company from 1938 to 1947. [Milward W. Martin, Twelve Full Ounces (New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 2nd edition, 1969), pp. 80-92.]
1919-1948
Law Teacher and the Reform of Legal Education. Vanderbilt served on the faculty of the New York University School of Law on a full-time basis simultaneously conducting his law practice. He was an instructor from 1914 to 1918, professor of law from 1918 to 1943 and Dean of the Law School from 1943 to 1948. He taught nearly every course in the curriculum, published hundreds of articles in legal periodicals, and originated numerous ideas in legal education that brought research, teaching, practice, and continuing education together. One summary of his contributions at N.Y.U. follows:
"Another outstanding achievement was Arthur Vanderbilt's origination of the modern law center as a place where scholars, judges, practicing lawyers, businessmen and labor leaders could collaborate on the great problems of the day. He brought the Law School out of isolation; he recognized its obligation not only to teach law but to aid in the continuing education of the bar and to engage in co-operative projects of reforming and simplifying the law.
"It was therefore, fitting that the building on Washington Square, New York City, for which he, by prodigious effort raised the building fund, be named 'Arthur T. Vanderbilt Hall' by New York University, and that the building, with others to follow, should be dedicated to the Law Center program which he established." ["Arthur T. Vanderbilt," Wesleyan University Alumnus, November 1957, pp. 15-16.]
Wesleyan University Trustee. Vanderbilt was a trustee of Wesleyan University from 1934 to 1957 and in 1946 to 1947, was President of the Board of Trustees. He was chairman of the presidential search committee which in 1941-1942 nominated Victor L. Butterfield to be President of Wesleyan, a post Butterfield then held for twenty-five years.
1919-1948
Politics. Vanderbilt cared deeply about the quality of local government and in 1919 founded and led to power an organization stressing clean government called the Essex County Republican League in Essex County, New Jersey. In 1922, he became County Counsel, a position he held for twenty-five years. Though an insurgent, he remained a Republican throughout his life, dominated Essex County and eventually came to be thought the benign Republican "boss" of the state of New Jersey. [See Thomas Reed, Twenty Years of Government in Essex County, New Jersey (New York: D. Appleton-Century Company, 1944).]
Interested in national political affairs as well, he was a supporter of Thomas E. Dewey. He was a delegate to the Republican National Conventions of 1936, 1940, and 1944.
1920-1947
Bar Association Leader. Vanderbilt served with the American Bar Association as a member of the General Council from 1932 to 1934; as founder and first chairman of the Section on Insurance, 1933-1934; as a member of the Executive Committee, 1934-1935; and on the Board of Governors, 1935-1937. Long active in the state bar, Vanderbilt became vice president and member of the Board of Trustees of the New Jersey State Bar Association between 1934 and 1937. During 1937-1938 he served as president of the American Bar Association.
During his term of office, the American Bar Association established an ad hoc committee on the Bill of Rights to provide counsel to anyone who felt that his civil rights were violated. This committee worked with the American Civil Liberties Union and filed an amicus curiae brief in Hague v. C.I.O., 307 U.S. 496 (1939), among others.
The American Bar Association also advocated a simplification of the federal court system. The Section of Judicial. Administration was established during his presidency of the A.B.A. with Federal Circuit Judge John J. Parker as chairman. Studies by the Judicial Administration Section resulted in seven committee reports of suggested reforms and standards. These reports, along with Vanderbilt's Minimum Standards of Judicial Administration (New York: New York University Law Center, 1949) have been stimuli for several states to reform judicial administration.
1930-1957
Improving the Administration of Justice. Vanderbilt's ideals over many years of leadership in law practice, legal education and bar association activity were to see that the courts functioned properly, to improve their personnel and to revise their procedures to accommodate modern conditions. He worked closely with Roscoe Pound (1870-1964) whose now famous speech to the American Bar Association in 1906, entitled "The Causes of Popular Dissatisfaction With the Administration of Justice," awakened national interest in the subject. Judge John J. Parker was a close associate of Pound and Vanderbilt in this movement. Vanderbilt's preeminent place in the movement to reform the administration of justice is neatly captured in the following assessment:
"Before long, public-spirited members of the bench and bar began to take notice. The chief vehicle for their early efforts at reform was the American Judicature Society, formed in 1912. In the 1930s, the organized bar began to lend its strength to the growing movement, largely as the result of the enthusiasm of Arthur T. Vanderbilt, who was destined to become not only president of the American Bar Association, the American Judicature Society, and the Institute of Judicial Administration, as well as chief justice of New Jersey, but also the acknowledged leader of the entire movement." [Delmar Karlen, "Judicial Administration," International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences (1968), vol. 8, p. 298.]
Vanderbilt's detailed activities are amply shown in his papers and the positions he held listed in the short biographical sketches listed below. His own formulation of the problems and solutions are expressed most profoundly in two of his books, Minimum Standards of Judicial Administration (1949) and The Challenge of Law Reform (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1955).
He served as chairman of the New Jersey Judicial Council from 1930 to 1940. He was also chairman of the National Conference of Judicial Councils from 1933 to 1937 and chairman of its executive committee from 1937 to 1957.
In 1938-1939 Vanderbilt chaired a committee named by the Attorney General to consider reforms in administering the entire federal court system. As a result, the Administrative Office of the United States Courts was created by act of Congress approved August 7, 1939 (53 Stat. 1223; 28 U.S.C. 601).
From 1938 to 1946 Vanderbilt chaired an advisory committee to the Supreme Court on federal rules of criminal procedure. The work of his committee resulted in adoption of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure. In December 1938 the Attorney General of the United States in a letter to President Roosevelt stated that "there is need for procedural reform in the wide and growing field of administrative law," and recommended the creation of a committee to make the necessary studies and recommendations for Congressional consideration. (S. Doc. No.8, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 251) Vanderbilt was among the persons named to the resulting Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure, and with Carl McFarland and E. Blythe Stason filed minority views in 1941 which became the direct basis for the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946. This act aimed to establish reasonable uniformity and fairness in administrative procedures throughout the Federal government. It was really the result of a nine-year study of administrative justice with Vanderbilt's ideas coming into the proceedings at numerous points. [For a cogent legislative history, see House Report No. 1980, 79th Cong., 2d Sess., reprinted in U.S. Code Congressional Service, 1964, pp. 1195-1206. For the statute itself, see Administrative Procedure Act of 1946, 60 Stat. 237, 5 U.S.C. 551.]
Uniform, Code of Military Justice. At the conclusion of World War II, there was much criticism of the justice systems of the Army and the Navy which then embraced all the military services. As a result both departments created independent boards to study their courts-martial systems. Vanderbilt, in 1946, chaired an advisory committee to the Department of War. Hearings were held throughout the country and the committee recommended taking away from field commanders the power of appointment and review of courts martial and other modifications of the Articles of War. After the Department of Defense was established, many of the proposals of the Vanderbilt Committee were utilized in drafting the Uniform Code of Military Justice enacted into law May 5, 1950. [For a legislative history, see the committee reports reprinted in U.S. Code Congressional Service, 1950, pp. 2222-2269. Also, see Uniform Code of Military Justice of 1950, 64 Stat. 108, 10 U.S.C. 801.]
Vanderbilt also chaired the National Committee on Traffic Law Enforcement from 1945 to 1956 and advocated unification of legal codes to overcome the widely varying statutes from state to state. From 1945 to 1957 he was also on the President's Highway Safety Conference. His concern for traffic law later resulted, in 1951, in Traffic Law Enforcement and the Sixteen Resolutions of the Chief Justices and the Governors.
1941-1947  New Jersey Constitution and Court Reform. In 1941-1942, Vanderbilt was a member of the New Jersey State Constitutional Revision Commission and from 1942 to 1945 served as an assistant to the attorney general to defend the constitution when it came up for referendum. The proposed constitution was defeated in the elections of 1944; however, a modified constitution was adopted in 1947.
1947-1957
Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court. On November 3, 1947 Vanderbilt was sworn in as a New Jersey Circuit Judge, a prerequisite to his eligibility for appointment to the new state Supreme Court. In December, 1947 Governor Driscoll nominated him and the Senate confirmed him as the first Chief Justice of the new Supreme Court then in formation under the New Jersey Constitution of 1947. On September 15, 1948, he formally assumed his new duties serving until his death in June 1957.
An innovation in the state constitution made the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court the administrative head of all the courts in the state. Vanderbilt took the leadership in soliciting suggestions from all sources for improving justice under this new system and the Court issued on June 21, 1948, Rules Governing the Courts of the State of New Jersey. As Chief Justice, Vanderbilt followed through in setting standards for swiftness in settling cases, working to keep the courts staffed, staying abreast of judicial business, and conferring and corresponding with judges at all levels throughout the state. He thus inaugurated the improved judicial system of New Jersey.
During nine full terms as Chief Justice, Vanderbilt wrote 166 opinions. His court's work is embraced in the first 24 volumes of the new series of New Jersey Reports. [See "Table of Chief Justice Vanderbilt's Judicial Opinions, Classified by Subject," in Fannie J. Klein and Joel S. Lee, Selected Writings of Arthur T. Vanderbilt, 2 volumes (Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.: Oceana Publications, Inc., 1965), vol. 2, pp. 265-271.]
The Conference of Chief Justices. Vanderbilt was one of the organizers in 1949 of the Conference of Chief Justices, now composed of the Chief Justices of the courts of last resort of the fifty states and Puerto Rico. Its purpose is to provide for the exchange of information and ideas on the operation of the judiciary and for consultation pointed to improvement of the administration of justice. The Conference is affiliated with the Council of State Governments. Vanderbilt was the elected chairman of the Conference of Chief Justices in 1953-1954. [For reports on the work of the Conference and of the state of judiciary, see the standard biennial reference work The Book of the States, published by the Council of State Governments, especially the volumes since the 1948-49 edition.]
1947-1957
Continued Leadership in Legal Education. During his years as Chief Justice, Vanderbilt continued to bring ideas into the N.Y.U. Law School at Washington Square. In 1948 he became a member of the Council of New York University and served as president of the Law Center Foundation. In 1951 he helped in the initiation of the Root-Tilden Scholarship Program at the Law School, awarded yearly to twenty students as a means of competing with other law schools for promising applicants by providing special seminar and independent study opportunities.
Citizenship Clearing House. Vanderbilt persuaded the governing bodies of the American Bar Association and the American Political Science Association to endorse the idea of an organization to promote the teaching of "practical politics" in college in order to prepare educated men and women for political activity after graduation. He organized a founding conference for 300 at the Waldorf-Astoria in September, 1947; enunciated the central ideas and purposes of the Citizenship Clearing House; won key foundation support; and established its permanent headquarters at Washington Square in close affiliation with the New York University Law School. C.C.H. changed its name to the National Center for Education in Politics (N.C.E.P.) in 1962 and that organization expired in 1966. During its existence this Vanderbilt-created organization held numerous conferences on politics throughout the country and brought countless professors and students into touch with campaigns and other political activity. A major force in its day, the Citizenship Clearing House was one of several vehicles for the reforming zeal of Arthur T. Vanderbilt." [See Political Education and Political Science: The National Center for Education in Politics, 1947-1966 by Bernard C. Hennessy (1966), N.C.E.P. Mimeographed Report, 161 pages.]
Institute of Judicial Administration. In 1952 Vanderbilt established the Institute of Judicial Administration at N.Y.U. School of Law. Chief Judge Charles Clark of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit wrote in 1963, "The Institute of Judicial Administration is a permanent non-profit corporation chartered under the laws of New York of over 600 leading lawyers, judges and laymen charged with the task of a continuing study--originally on a national, and now on an international basis--of the problems of court organization, administration and procedure with the purpose of developing an art as well as a science of judicial administration. So long as he lived, Chief Justice Vanderbilt was its president, and it has already become the outstanding center for correlating all source material and research publications in its unique field. It has already developed a series of advisory and consultative studies where its advice has been sought here and abroad in problems in original or improved court organization. A broadened field of opportunities open before it continuously. It was uniquely designed to carry on the faith and perpetuate the ideals of the most notable law reformer of an era." [See Klein and Lee, Selected Writings, vol. 1, p. xxiii.]
Honors. Vanderbilt was awarded thirty-one honorary degrees in the United States and Canada. In 1948 he was awarded the Gold Medal of the American Bar Association, given rarely. He also won numerous other honors. [See details in Who Was Who in America, vol. 3, p. 872.]
1957, June 16  Died, Short Hills, New Jersey, age 68.
The Vertical Files Collection has been gathered by the Wesleyan University Archives to provide general information about Wesleyan University topics.
Wesleyan University viewbooks are brochures or booklets featuring photographs and information about the university. They are most often intended for prospective students, but may also be designed to attract donors.
In 1927, The Voluntary Committee of Lawyers, Inc. was organized by a group of young New York lawyers who felt that the national prohibition law was both unjust and unenforceable. Its leaders were Joseph H. Choate, Jr., who served as chairman of the Executive Committee, and Harrison Tweed, Treasurer. The organization existed to organize like-minded associates, take opinion polls of lawyers across the country, issue bulletins and annual reports reciting arguments against the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution, and work closely with the Association Against the Prohibition Amendment. They stressed that a Repeal Amendment should provide for ratification by state convention and then proceeded to prepare and place before all state governors in February 1933 draft bills providing for election at large of all delegates. The alertness and prestige of the members of the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers contributed to the fact that most states enacted the model convention bill verbatim. When the Twenty-First Amendment was ratified on December 5, 1933, the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers disbanded.
JOSEPH H. CHOATE, JR. was the acknowledged leader and moving force in the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers, Incorporated. His interest in this subject was preceded by an association during World War I and the 1920s with the chemical section of the Alien Property Custodians Bureau where he came to know A. Mitchell Palmer, also later to be active in the repeal movement. Upon ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment in 1933, President Franklin D. Roosevelt named Choate, a Republican, chairman of the Federal Alcohol Control Administration. He served in this position for two years.
He was born in New York February 2, 1876. His father was Joseph H. Choate, a famous lawyer and Ambassador to England from 1899 to 1905. Joseph H. Choate, Jr. graduated from Harvard College in 1897 and from Harvard Law School. At his death in 1968, at age 91, he was counsel in Choate, Regan, Davis and Hollister in the Graybar Building in Manhattan. He had residences at 950 Park Avenue, New York, in Mount Kisco, and in North Haven, Maine. [See New York Times, January 20, 1968, p. 29.]
HARRISON TWEED served as treasurer of the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers and did so in the spirit of civic interest that marked many other of his activities. The task was done with easy dispatch but with gusto as one of a string of similar public activities he believed should concern lawyers. While he was one of the country's best known and most successful lawyers, Tweed worked for years in the legal aid movement to extend legal services to the poor and underprivileged. In 1963 he joined Bernard Segal of Philadelphia as co-chairman of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, formed at the invitation of President John F. Kennedy at a White House meeting. Tweed served as president of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York from 1945 to 1948 and was also president at different times of the American Law Institute and of the National Legal Aid Association.
Tweed was born in New York on October 18, 1885 of New England ancestry, not related to William Marcy Tweed, the Boss of Tammany Hall in the l870s. Tweed's father, Charles Harrison Tweed, was general counsel to prominent railroads while his mother, Helen Minerva Evarts, was the daughter of William M. Evarts who was successively Attorney General, Secretary of State and a United States Senator between 1868 and 1891. Tweed was himself little interested in genealogy. He graduated from Harvard in 1907 and the Harvard Law School in 1910. At the end of his career he was a partner in Milbank, Tweed, Fadley & McCloy at One Manhattan Chase Plaza. His home was at 10 Gracie Square. Tweed died on June 16, 1969 at the age of 83. [See New York Times, June 18, 1969, p. 41.]
Historical Note on the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers
1851-1917  THE TEMPERANCE MOVEMENT. The evolution of prohibition covers the entire sweep of American history beginning with colonial settlement in the 17th century. The clergy, the educated, and other members of the Eastern elite at first practiced and advocated temperance. Over several generations and as a part of the movement West and the democratization of elite values, temperance came to hold an appeal for the middle and lower classes. By the second third of the 19th century temperance was a widely enough shared value in the United States that organized advocates sought to outlaw alcoholic beverages. Statewide prohibition came first in the State of Maine in 1851 through the leadership of Neal Dow of Portland, later a candidate for President on the Prohibition Party ticket. The Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) led by Frances Willard was the most prominent of many 19th century organizations which sought state prohibition or, at least, local option laws, of which many were enacted by the turn of the century. [The best intellectual account is Joseph R. Gusfield, Symbolic Crusade (Urbana and London: University of Illinois Press, 1966).]
1893-1933  THE ANTI-SALOON LEAGUE OF AMERICA. A more militant organization that was prohibitionist in spirit was founded at Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio in 1893 called the Anti-Saloon League. After forming chapters in most communities in the state, led mainly by Baptists and Methodists, Ohio became a model for similar organizations throughout the country. With a mass following, well-financed, closely related to fundamentalist churches, with full-time staffs and dynamic leaders, the Anti-Saloon League's work exemplified skilled lobbying and had the services of zealous and able lawyers like Wayne B. Wheeler. An increasing number of states went dry by voting in prohibition laws. In 1913 the Anti-Saloon League of America voted to seek national prohibition through a constitutional amendment. With wide popular support, especially from among the leading Progressive politicians of the day, and by persisting, Congress was persuaded to submit a prohibition amendment on December 18, 1917. Ratification was completed on January 16, 1919. The amendment took effect one year later. [For an exposition of the view that the appeal of prohibition "lay largely with the oldstock, middle class section of the American community" which "constituted the backbone of the Progressive Movement," see James H. Timberlake, Prohibition and the Progressive Movement 1900-1920 (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1963), pp. 2-3.] The Anti-Saloon League continued on to help draft the Volstead Act and to administer national prohibition, and began only after Wheeler's death in 1927 to decline. [For a contemporary, muckraking account by a political scientist, see Peter Odegard, Pressure Politics (New York: Columbia University Press, 1928). For a view stressing litigation and court enforcement by the Anti-Saloon League, see Clement E. Vose, Constitutional Change: Amendment Politics and Supreme Court Litigation Since 1900 (Lexington, Mass.: Lexington Books, 1972), chapter 4, pp. 69-100.]
1918-1920
THE EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT. The National Prohibition Amendment was ratified on January 16, 1919 and took effect on January 16, 1920. Its three sections read as follows:
Section 1. After one year from the ratification of this article the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into, or the exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited.
Section 2. The Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
Section 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of the several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.
1920-1933 ASSOCIATION AGAINST THE PROHIBITION AMENDMENT. There had always been opposition to laws banning the sale of alcohol and the most important single voluntary association to enlist in the campaign for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment was officially formed on December 31, 1920. The organization called the Association Against the Prohibition Amendment had been advocated as early as November 12, 1918 by Navy Captain William H. Stayton. By the mid-1920s, a group of wealthy businessmen who had earlier thought the Amendment might be beneficent joined the AAPA because they were alarmed "over the rising crime rate, the violence of the enforcement effort, the growth of federal power, and the perceived threat to constitutional liberties." They included Pierre and Irenee du Pont, John J. Raskob, James W. Wadsworth and later, Jouett Shouse. By publicity, state organization and attention to lobbying Congress, the AAPA was always in the forefront of the campaign to see a repeal amendment proposed by Congress. Their success came when a repeal amendment was proposed by Congress on February 20, 1933. [For the best account of the arguments against national prohibition by amendment and of the organized activities of the AAPA, see David E. Kyvig, "In Revolt Against Prohibition: The Association Against the Prohibition Amendment and the Movement for Repeal, 1919-1933" (Ph.D. dissertation, Northwestern University, 1971).]
1927-1933 VOLUNTARY COMMITTEE OF LAWYERS, INC. In 1927 some young New York City lawyers who believed national prohibition to be wrong and unenforceable public policy formally established a single-purpose organization called the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers. In the lead were Joseph H. Choate, Jr., who served as chairman of the Executive Committee, and Harrison Tweed, Treasurer. As lawyers they believed the Eighteenth Amendment to be illegitimate as well as unwise policy. They organized associates in every state, took polls on the opinions of city lawyers across the country, issued bulletins and annual reports reciting arguments against the Eighteenth Amendment and worked closely with the Association Against the Prohibition Amendment. The papers of Choate and Tweed in the Collection on Legal Change today show that the most important contribution of the VCL was in the ratification process. They stressed that a Repeal Amendment should provide for ratification by state convention and then proceeded to prepare and place before all state governors in February 1933 draft bills providing for election at large of all delegates. The alertness and the prestige of the members of the Voluntary Committee of Lawyers contributed to the fact that most states enacted the model convention bill verbatim. This helps to account for the ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment on December 5, 1933. The VCL then closed its books. [For an account based on these papers see the chapter entitled "Lawyers for Repeal," in Clement E. Vose, Constitutional Change, chapter 5, pp. 101-138.]
1933
THE TWENTY-FIRST AMENDMENT.
Section 1. The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed.
Section 2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited.
Section 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress. 
This essay by University Archivist Suzy Taraba was originally published in Wesleyan: the University Magazine in the Winter 2003 issue.
Did you know that Washington's Birthday was once one of the most festively celebrated holidays at Wesleyan? From at least 1863 until 1929, this holiday was a focal point of social life at Wesleyan, perhaps as important as the proms of later years.
Nationally, George Washington's birthday was first celebrated in Richmond, Va., in 1782, even before he became the first President of the United States in 1789. Early celebrations were erratic and sometimes controversial, particularly among the Antifederalists. By the time of Washington's death in 1799, however, he was considered a national hero. The celebration of his birthday united political factions in near universal support for honoring his memory. By 1832, the centennial of Washington's birth, commemorative celebrations in February were firmly established. At the University of Pennsylvania, for instance, festivities began as early as 1794 and had become so important by the end of the 19th century that President Grover Cleveland was an invited speaker.
At Wesleyan, the earliest documented celebration of Washington's Birthday was in 1863, although earlier celebrations may still come to light. Two tickets to the 1863 events survive in the Wesleyan University Archives, as does a nearly complete set of Washington's Birthday celebration programs from 1866 through 1929. From the 1860s through the 1880s, the sophomore class hosted the events, which focused on music, orations, and, most important, the public reading of Washington's famous farewell address. Throughout the 19th century, the tone of the celebration was primarily patriotic. Decorating efforts of the sophomore class proved to be particularly memorable in 1885, as reported in the College Argus: [These are the] finest decorations which have ever been seen in Memorial Chapel. The stage was draped with red, white, and blue, with a background of flags. Over the speakers was suspended an imitation of the Liberty Bell, made by ivy leaves on a wire frame. White immortelles marked the fissure in the bell, while the tongue was of white and purple flowers. . . . The organ-loft was draped with flags, in the midst of which hung a portrait of Washington, and above that a mounted eagle. In 1888, a spoof of the program was apparently staged--or at least a satiric program was prepared--featuring irreverent activities with Fatty Hancock serving as master of ceremonies.
By 1891, the tradition of patriotic music and declamations had given way to a gala banquet, at which the celebration of the country's Founding Father merged with revering Wesleyan, the Alma Mater. Alumni figured prominently among the prime revelers, and a series of toasts became a central feature of the program. The banquet was held at a variety of local venues until the opening of Fayerweather Gymnasium in 1894. Not all Wesleyan men were equally enthusiastic about the festivities: One copy of the program for the 1896 banquet includes unsigned manuscript annotations listing the order of speakers and commenting Newhall at every opportunity, in reference to William Rice Newhall, the toastmaster that year.
In the early 20th century, the Washington's Birthday bash became ever more focused on Wesleyan alumni relations. In 1902, the alumni office mailed a postcard to announce the events and encourage alumni to attend, stating, We believe that the Washington's Birthday Banquet will bring together the largest and most enthusiastic body of Wesleyan men ever assembled.
In this period, such longstanding Wesleyan traditions as the cannon scrap, a contest between the freshman and sophomore classes, became part of the weekend of Washington's Birthday festivities. In some years, Washington's Birthday was a time for sub-freshmen (the prefrosh of their day) to visit campus; in others, it was an alumni weekend, featuring seminars and vocational programs. The 1920 Washington's Birthday events were among the most elaborate. In addition to the banquet, events included Visitors' Days, during which classes and laboratories were open to visitors; the Fourth Annual Wesleyan University Teachers' Conference, aimed at the 26 percent of Wesleyan graduates engaged in teaching; and athletic events, concerts, and a student theatrical presentation, The George Washington Follies, preceded by a very early performance of jazz by the college orchestra.
Although Wesleyan's celebration of Washington's Birthday began as a reflection of a national holiday, by the 1920s it no longer mirrored the national scene so closely. In fact, the national celebration of Washington's Birthday peaked in 1932, the bicentennial of his birth. At Wesleyan, the main event that year was an exhibition of Washingtonia in Olin Library, a very distinguished collection of documents and memorabilia from a variety of sources, but a far cry from the heyday of the gala banquet just a few years earlier. The final documented Wesleyan Washington's Birthday celebration was in 1941, when New York alumni gathered at the Hotel Roosevelt for a banquet and reenactment of the cannon scrap of 1917. Many of the attendees were graduates from the World War I era, fondly remembering their college days.
The Wesleyan Spirits are an all-male a capella vocal group at Wesleyan.
The following historical note was taken from the WSA's website, http://www.wesleyan.edu/wsa/about/history.htm, on 21 June 2006.
The Wesleyan Student Assembly (WSA) is the legislative and deliberative body of the Wesleyan College Body. The WSA is comprised of 37 members and consists of nine standing committees: the Executive Committee, Coordinating Committee, Community Outreach Committee, Educational Policy Committee, Finance and Facilities Committee, Student Affairs Committee, Student Budget Committee, Independent Projects Committee, Student Trustees Committee and the Student Institutional Advisory Priorities Committee. The WSA responsibilities include allocating the College Body Tax to the 170+ student groups, meeting regularly with President Bennet, serving on the standing committees of the Board of Trustees, affecting academic and non-academic policy and improving Wesleyan-Middletown relations. The WSA maintains its offices at 190 High St. Cari Macdermott served as the WSA office coordinator from 1978 until her retirement in the spring of 2005. She was replaced by Lisa Hendrix, the new WSA office coordinator.
Student government originated as the College Body Senate in 1903. "The College Body of Wesleyan University" was formed in 1963 in response to a desire for better organization and was directed by the College Body Committee, comprised of five elected undergraduates. In 1975, the Wesleyan Students' Union was to fill the need for an organization to lobby specifically on behalf of student interests. A $1 membership was required. In 1978, 89% of the voting population approved a campus-wide referendum and the Wesleyan Student Assembly was formed. The Assembly was comprised of seven standing committees with 45 members serving during the fall term and 38 members during the spring term. Membership was distributed across the geographic boundaries of the campus stretching from In-Town to Butterfield.
The WSA has undergone a number of changes in composition throughout its history. In 1980, the Assembly had 37 members, in 1981 the membership was 27 members. The Assembly was again altered in 1984 to 28 members and persisted in this form until 1992 when the organization was expanded to 40 members. Representation has been changed from geographically based to year based and the leadership was shifted from the Coordinator position to a President, Vice-President format during the 1990's. In 1997, the WSA underwent its last iteration and now stands at 37 members.
The WSA enjoys a storied history of successes, reforms and restructurings as well as dramatic resignations and heated debate. In 1994, the Assembly experienced the "comedy of errors" when WSA elections were invalidated when an inadequate number of representatives were elected. In 1998, the absence of funding for the Film Board sparked the Film Series Controversy. Over the previous two academic years, the Assembly has played an integral role in the University's recent efforts at curricular renewal and reform of graduation requirements as well as influencing party policy, residential life issues and supporting efforts at responsible investing.
Wesleyan Clinic Escorts is a group that trains and organizes students to escort patients past anti-abortion protesters at women's clinics in Connecticut, primarily at Summit Women's Center in Bridgeport, CT. The group was founded by Wesleyan student Jessica Fondy in 1991 when she discovered that Summit was being picketed by protesters. The group was initially a subsidiary of Students for Reproductive Choice, but as interest in SRC dropped, Wesleyan Clinic Escorts became a separate entity. As of spring 2008, Wesleyan Clinic Escorts is still in existence.
What would come to be called WESU began in 1939 when two students living in Clark Hall connected a transmitter to a phonograph and began broadcasting short transmissions down their hall. As time progressed, the pair extended their broadcast range by illicitly attaching their transmitter to the network of water pipes beneath Wesleyan, slowly expanding until most of the campus had become an antenna. From these mischievous beginnings, the station quickly became a legitimate campus fixture, broadcasting throughout the Middletown area in the early 1940's on an AM signal under the call letters "WES". In 1950, updated Federal Communications Commission law granted the station its four-letter moniker "WESU." In 1967, WESU underwent two crucial changes-the station switched over to FM broadcasting, and its broadcasting license was transferred to the Wesleyan Broadcast Association, a non-profit corporation founded by the WESU Board of Directors as an entity independent from Wesleyan University. The years that followed saw an increase in non-Wesleyan involvement in the station, as members of the surrounding community came to serve as DJs and, by the mid 1990's, hold positions on the Board of Directors. In 1980, WESU precipitated a nation-wide college boycott of Arista Records regarding what the WESU board saw to be the unfair treatment of college radio stations. In 1990, however, the Wesleyan Broadcast Association forfeited its incorporated status. In 2003, Wesleyan University entered into negotiations to acquire the license back from WESU, and it succeeded. The years that followed saw the University's addition of NPR programming to the WESU broadcast day, and the University's reconfiguration of the WESU Board, removing non-Wesleyan community members from voting positions.
During the 1980s, a Wesleyan faculty member was asked to deliver an address to the incoming freshman class each year. These addresses contained advice and wisdom about the students' upcoming lives at Wesleyan University. These addresses were transcribed and printed by Wesleyan.
Moses Clark White was born in Paris, Oneida County, New York on July 24, 1819. He was a graduate of the Wesleyan Class of 1845. By the time of graduation, White had already decided that he would devote his life to missionary work in China. He had been influenced by a sermon, A Call to the Ministry by the Rev. Stephen Olin, around 1835 and entered the Cazenovia Seminary in 1840. In February 1842, he entered Wesleyan and graduated in 1845. Under Olin's guidance, he spent two years after graduation in New Haven studying medicine and theology at Yale. He sometimes preached in the neighboring town of Milford.
He married Jane Isabel Atwater of Homer, Cortland County, New York on March 13, 1847. Born on August 26, 1822, she entered the Oneida Conference Seminary at Cazenovia in 1839 and graduated in July 1842 with high honors. At the seminary, she formed a close friendship with Mary Seely and it is here that she met Moses White who was preparing for college. From 1842 to February 1847, she was a teacher in the Sabbath School in Rochester, N.Y.
Jane also had a missionary calling and together they sailed on the Heber for Fuh Chau, China, on April 15, 1847. They arrived there after a five month voyage on September 7, 1847. Jane became sick shortly after arriving and died seven months later of consumption on May 25, 1848 at the age of 26.
At Fuh Chau, White served as both doctor and missionary, and conducted a school for the secular and religious instruction of the Chinese of that city. He studied and treated the toxic effects of opium, as well as translated the Gospel of Matthew. It was the first Christian document ever published in the colloquial dialect of that region.
Moses White was married a second time to Mary Seely in Foochow in 1851. Mary Seely was from Onondaga, New York and went to China as a missionary with Dr. Isaac W. Wiley and his wife. It was by Mary that Moses had children. (Isaac Wiley received an honorary degree from Wesleyan in 1864.)
Mary Seely White returned to New Haven in 1852 because of poor health. Due to his own bad health, Moses White also left China in 1853 for New Haven where he resumed medical studies at Yale and began a medical practice which he continued until the end end of his life. He received an MD degree from Yale in 1854. Mary White died in 1887. Moses White died on October 24, 1900.
John Cecil Rushworth Whiteley (1904-1959) was a member of the Wesleyan Class of 1925. Whiteley received a Rhodes Scholarship and studied at Wadham College, Oxford, from 1925 to 1928. He received a BA from the University of Oxford in 1927, and an MA in 1931. Whiteley worked at a number of paper companies as a financial officer. He married Dorothy Cooper in 1935.
Composer Beatrice Witkin (1917-1990) was born in New York City. She attended Hunter College in New York and did her graduate work at New York University. She studied composition with Mark Brunswick, Roger Sessions, and Stefan Wolpe, and piano with Edward Steuerman. She was also the recipient of the ASCAP Standard Award, and grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Ford Foundation, and the Rockefeller Foundation.
Witkin was one of the first women to work in the electronic music idiom. In 1968, she was invited to work at the Electronic Music Studio at the New York University School of the Arts. Two years later, her electronic composition Glissines was a winner in High Fidelity Magazine's Electronic Music Contest.
In 1963, she helped establish the Contemporary Chamber Ensemble, a performing group that commissioned new works. She was a guest composer of the McDowell Colony as well as a longtime member of the Women's Composers Forum and the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers.
Chronology of Major Works
Works with an asterisk (*) have corresponding recordings in Scores and Recordings, Wesleyan University.
1960 Duo for Violin and Piano*
1960 Interludes for Solo Flute and Piccolo*
1963 Prose Poem
1964 Contour for Piano*
1964 Parameter for Eight Instruments
1965 Combinations for Thirteen Instruments
1967 Twelve-tone Variations on Quotes by the Beatles for Young People's Orchestra
1968 Fanfare in B and E Flat
1968 Chiaroscuro for Cello and Piano
1968-1969 Triads and Things for Brass Quintet*
1970 Breath and Sounds for Tuba and Stereophonic Tape*
1972-1973 Echologie for Flute and Tape
1977-1978 Report from the Planet Mars
1981 Stephen Foster Revisited Variations for Concert Band
1985 Cantillations of the Bible for String Quartet
In January 1916, Wesleyan University first started an elective course in military science. Once the United Stated entered the war in April 1917, Wesleyan established an infantry unit of the Reserve Officers Training Corps (R.O.T.C.) and a Certificate of Military Training. This certificate was a three year course designed for students under 21 years of age to become officers in the national army. Major Henry Sollet Wygant, U.S.A (retired) was the professor of Military Science and Tactics.
In August 1918 the draft age dropped from 21 to 18. The university immediately adopted the Student Army Training Corps (S.A.T.C.), which the War Department created to replace the R.O.T.C program. This program allowed the students to continue with their education as well as prepare them for warfare. It divided their courses into five areas of study correlated to the different branches of the military. Group A included infantry, artillery, and machine gun; Group B, aviation; Group C, quartermaster corps; Group D, chemical warfare services; and Group E, truck and transport services. The students were divided into four groups according to their age: Class I- 20 year olds, Class II- 19 year olds, Class III-18 year olds, and Class IV were volunteers who were under 18 years of age. However once the armistice with Germany was signed on November 11, 1918, the Wesleyan S.A.T.C. demobilized starting on December 10 and was completed by December 20, 1918. On January 2, 1919 the university reopened with all work on a civilian status.
Wesleyan University began offering classes about women's issues in the early 1970s, which was shortly after the first women were admitted to Wesleyan in 1968. Women's Studies was housed within the American Studies program for the duration of the 1970s. In 1980, a Women's Studies Program was formed, but it did not become an official major until 1989.
The name of the program was changed to Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies in 2006 to better reflect the changing nature of the curriculum.
Henry Merritt Wriston was born on July 4, 1889 in Laramie, Wyoming, and grew up in Springfield, Massachusetts. Wriston graduated from Wesleyan University with a bachelor's degree in 1911, a master's degree in 1912, and then earned his Ph.D. at Harvard University. After serving as an instructor and then full professor of history at Wesleyan from 1914 to 1925, he was appointed president of Lawrence College (now University) in Appleton, Wisconsin. At the age of 35, Wriston was reported to be the youngest college president in the country.
In 1937, Wriston became president of Brown University. He made major changes to the curriculum and the faculty, encouraging students to do their own research and drop in on classes in which they were interested. The changes prompted John D. Rockefeller, Jr., to donate $4 million in 1955 in recognition of Wriston's accomplishments.
In 1954, John Foster Dulles appointed Wriston to a committee to improve the efficiency of the diplomatic corps. Wriston continued to be involved in politics and public issues following his departure from Brown in 1955. In 1960, President Eisenhower appointed him as chairman of the Presidential Commission on Nation Goals. He also served in various capacities with the American Assembly, the World Peace Foundation, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Council on Foreign Relations, and the New York Stock Exchange.
Wriston died on March 8, 1978. His first wife, Ruth Colton Bigelow, preceded him in death. Wriston was survived by his second wife, Marguerite Woodworth, whom he married in 1947. Wriston was also survived by two children, Walter B. Wriston and Barbara Wriston.
The Young Men's Republican Club was Wesleyan's first Republican political organization. It was founded on June 21, 1856, with the goal of aiding in the election of John C. Fremont to the presidency (and William L. Dayton to the vice-presidency) of the United States. The election of 1856 was the first in U.S. history to be contested by the newly formed Republican Party. Fremont ran on a free soil platform, opposing the expansion of the institution of slavery to Kansas. Many of his most vocal supporters were abolitionists, and many northern Methodists were free soilers (who opposed the expansion of slavery) or abolitionists. A significant number of Wesleyan students were vocal supporters of the Republican Party in the early years, and much of their rhetoric centered on their opposition to slavery in Kansas.
Wesleyan’s Center for the Arts (CFA) complex of buildings, designed by Kevin Roche, John Dinkeloo and Associates, opened in 1973. One building was designed as a new gallery space, known as the CFA galleries, to be dedicated primarily to contemporary art and student works. After construction, the gallery was occasionally divided into two separate exhibition spaces, known as the CFA North and CFA South galleries. This space augmented the university’s Davison Art Center gallery, whose focus was primarily on printmaking and photography. The CFA gallery was renamed the Ezra [Wesleyan class of 1947] and Cecile Zilkha Gallery in the fall of 1982 in honor of a gift from The Zilkha Foundation, Inc.
This collection contains the surviving records of the club. The two scorebooks provide detailed inning-by-inning statistics for Agallian players for each of the recorded games; most games have dates and duration of time ascribed to them and scorer and umpire identification. Some matches which are recorded in these volumes took place against other Wesleyan teams as well as Connecticut baseball clubs and teams from other universities.
Two autograph manuscripts, one signed by the Waterbury club secretary and one signed and sealed in wax by a notary public.
Commercially-produced base ball scorebook containing records of the first games of the club including participants, positions and scoring information for the Agallians (not their opponents), game times and dates, scorer and umpire information, 1865-69. For the 12 games recorded in this volume, opponents are: Charter Oak B.B.C., Hartford; Yale College B.B.C.; Waterbury B.B.C.; Forest City B.B.C., Middletown, Conn.; Nicaean B.B.C., Amherst College; Howard B.B.C., Hartford; Freshman (i.e. Class of ’72) Club, Wesleyan University; and the University B.B.C., Wesleyan University.
Notebook with line rulings added by the club to approximate the first scorebook. Contains similar game, player and scoring records for the Agallian teams 1865-66, including duplicated information from the primary scorebook. Also contains records for additional games played, player information and statistics for both the first and second Agallian "nines" which are not found in the first scorebook.
This collection consists of a single document, an 1805 ship's manifest, which lists the cargo of the Brig Thetis of Hartford. The Brig Thetis was owned by Joseph W. Alsop of Middletown and David Watkinson and William Watkinson of Hartford, and captained by Alsop. According to the manifest, the cargo listed was taken aboard at St. Croix and Turks Islands on December 6, 1804 and was bound for Middletown. The manifest also suggests that the Brig Thetis itself was built in Middletown. Items listed in the manifest include rum, molasses, empty bottles, coconuts, oranges, sugar, salt and old iron. The back side of the manifest was completed on October 12, 1805, presumably upon the ship's arrival in Middletown. The surveyor George Wolcott acted as witness, signing his name and verifying the manifest as accurate.
This collection contains anecdotes written by Wesleyan alumni from the classes of 1859 to 1936. Major topics include their experiences with former Wesleyan professors, pranks performed with their classmates, the burning of North College in 1906, and the arrival of women on campus in 1872. Some sample reminscences:
Herbert L. Connelly, class of 1909: The frequenters of the front porches of Beta Theta Pi, Alpha Delta Phi, Eclectic, and Psi Upsilon after many and sundry observations during a period extending over month and even years finally came to the brilliant conclusion that Professor Armstrong, while en route from his home to Fisk Hall, had developed a custom, either consciously or unconsciously, of telegraphing to the world his plans of the ensuing class session. It was all a question of what clothes and decorations the Professor had on as he passed these hot beds of research. Hundreds of observations had proved to these young savants beyond all peradventure of a doubt that Army's plan to give a lecture or hold a recitation were indicated as follows:
Dark Coat, lights trousers, and jewelry across the vest = Lecture
Light Coat, dark trousers, and no jewelry across the vest = Recitation
The students planned accordingly.
M. Eugene Culver, class of 1875: I do not wish to close these rambling recollections without speaking of the first girls who came to college. My class of '75, of course, entered in 1871, but in 1872 the first co-eds were entered in college. There were four of them: Jennie Larned, Phebe Almeda Stone, Hannah Ada Taylor and Angie Villette Warren. I used to feel sorry for them because they could not join any of the fraternities, and have the pleasure that the rest of us enjoyed. They roomed somewhere on William Street and used to go parading up the College walks to recitations two by two. All I could thing of was the old song about Noah building an ark and put in the animals two by two, the elephant and the kangaroo. They were good scholars, all of them. Jennie Larned, the youngest girl, from Tennessee, who used to wear her hair flowing down her back in very luxuriant style, reminded me of a Shetland pony with his mane hanging down. As I recall it, she came nearest to having the highest marks of anybody in the class, but I believe that George Coleman exceeded her by a small margin. All of the other girls made Phi Beta Kappa, and Phebe Stone got first grade, the same as Jennie Larned. Co-education was not popular with our class. Some of the boys were very outspoken with reference to it; but one of them, Leonard L Beeman, married Phebe Almeda Stone. He afterwards became a minister and went to Vermont. It was currently reported that, if he was indisposed when Sunday came, Phebe Almeda went into the pulpit and preached for him.
Nelson C. Hubbard, class of 1892: Anyone who was in college when Woodrow Wilson was there will remember his interest in the football team and his habit of carrying a wrapped umbrella which he used as a cane. In those days sparring ability served linesmen in good stead, and we were not always able to measure up to the quality with which our much larger opponents would be equipped. Those were the days, by the way, when signals were given, not in numbers but in phrases, and when one of our most energetic and efficient rushers, on receiving the ball, would automatically stop, throw his cap on the ground, and then proceed bareheaded on his diligent way. The first time I ever saw Woodrow to know him was at a football game, when he was excitedly marching up and down opposite the line-up, and when his uncapped fellow was slugged and knocked flat, he completely lost his temper, flourished his umbrella-cane in the air, and loudly yelled, Kill him! Kill him! I remembered this a good many years later when he was scheduled to address the New York Wesleyan alumni group on Peace or some such matter, and I planned to attend and confront him with his record, but was unable to go.
Materials are arranged alphabetically according to last name of the alumni.
Students are listed along with their year of graduation. An "n" before the year indicates that the student did not graduate.
Alumni and topic index, letters of receipt, and original petition.
The Nancy Ottmann Albert Papers are extensive. The majority of the materials consist of developed photographs and negatives. Research files on the New England places she photographed include a variety of documents and negatives. The research collection and negatives are organized by state and town. Photographs are generally organized by date range and area, but the photos within the boxes may be mixed.
Series I: Research notes
Series II: Negatives
Series III: Slides
Series IV: Photographs
C-B-1 Baltic, CT, Baltic Cotton Mill, 1900
C-B-2 Beacon Falls CT, Home Woolen Mill 1865
C-B-3 Brooklyn CT, Quinebaug Co. 1854
C-W-1 Wauregan CT, Wauregan CT, 1853
C-W-5 Waterbury CT, American Suspender Mills, 1843
C-T-1 Taftville CT, Ponemah Mills, 1866
C-M-4 Manchester CT, Cheny Brothers Silk Mills, 1865
C-D-1a Danielson CT, Quinebaug Co., 1868
C-E-1 East Hampton CT, Summit Thread Mills, 1880
C-E-2b East Killingly CT, Elliotville Lower Mill (Peep Toad Mill), 1850
C-N-3 Norwich CT (Yantic), Williams Flannel Mill, 1865
C-Y-1a Norwich CT. (Yantic), Falls Company Mills, 1840
C-P-1 Putnam CT, Pomfret Cotton Mills, 1824
C-P-1a Putnam CT, Monohansett Mill, 1868
C-P-1b Putnam CT, Rhodes Mill, 1841
C-P-1c Putnam CT, Morse Mill, 1846
C-P-1d Putnam CT, Powhatan Mill, 1872
M-A-1 Amesbury MA, Hamilton Woolen Co., 1825
M-A-2 Adams MA, Mill
M-B-1 Ballardvale MA, Ballardvale Woolen Mills, 1835
M-C-1 Chicopee MA, Lyman Mill, n/d
M-E-1 East Douglas MA, mill
M-G-1 Gilbertville MA, mill
M-G-1a Gilbertville MA, mill
M-F-1 Fall River MA, Richard Borden Mill, 1870
M-F-1a Fall River MA, Chase Mill, 1872
M-F-1b Fall River MA, Merchants Mill, 1867
M-F-1d Fall River MA, Durfee Mills, 1866
M-F-1e Fall River MA, Davol Mills, 1867
M-G-1 Grafton MA, mill
M-H-2 Hinsdale MA, mill
M-H-3 Housatonic MA, monument mills
M-H-1 Holyoke MA, Merrick Thread Co., 1888
M-L-1 Lowell MA, Boott Mill, 1835
M-L-1a Lowell MA, Suffolk Mill #6, 1831
M-M-1 Manchaug MA, BBR Knight Cotton Mill, 1850
M-M-3 Meteun MA, Metheun Co., 1826
M-N-1 North Billerica MA
M-N-1a North Billerica MA
M-N-2 North Uxbridge MA, Crown and Eagle Mill, 1825
M-N-5 Newbury Port MA, James Steam Mill, 1842
M-N-6 North Adams MA, mill known as Cascade Co.
M-N-7 Northampton MA
M-N-4 North Andover MA, North Andover Mills, 1825
M-S-1b Southbridge MA, mill
M-T-1 Thorndike MA, mill
M-U-1 Uxbridge MA, mill known as Scott's Woolen Mill
M-W-1 Whitinsville MA (Northbridge), Northbridge Mfg/Whitinsville Cotton, 1846
M-W-1a Whitinsville MA (Northbridge), Whitin's Mill/Wilkinson Mill, 1826
M-W-2 Whitinsville MA (Northbridge), Linwood Mill, 1870
ME-B-1 Biddeford ME, Pepperell Mill, 1848
ME-N-1 N. Berwick ME, N. Berwick Mill, n.d
N-A-1 Ashland NH, 1840, 1880
N-C-1 Claremont NH, Monadock Mill, 1836
N-D-1 Dover NH, Sawyer's Mills, 1824
N-D-1a Dover NH, Cocheco Mfg Co., 1919
N-F-1 Franklin NH, mill
N-H-1 Harrisville N.H., Harris Mill 1832, Cheshire Mill, 1846
N-H-1 Harrisville NH
N-H-2 Hillsborough NH, Contocook Mills 1845-1865
N-J-1 Jaffrey NH, Stone Brothers and Curtis Mill, 1872
N-K-1 Keene NH, Faulkner and Colongy Mill, 1838
N-L-1 Laconia NH, Belknap 1823, Busiel Mills, 1853
N-L-1a Laconia NH, Belknap 1823, Busiel Mills, 1853
N-M-1 Manchester NH, Amoskeag Mills, 1838
N-N-1 Newmarket NH, Newmarket Mfg. Co., 1823
N-S-1 Somersworth NH, Great Falls MFG Co., 1821
N-S-2 Salmon Falls, Salmon Falls Mill, 1822
N-N-2 Nashua NH, Nashua Mfg. Co., 1825
N-N-3 New Ipswich NH, Columbian Mfg. Co., 1875
N-N-4 Newport NH, Dexter Richards and Sons Mill, 1905
N-S-3 Suncook NH, China Mill, 1867
N-T-1 Tilton NH, Winnisquam Mill, 1868
NY-C-1 Cohoes NY, Harmony Mills, 1826
R-A-1 Ashton RI, Ashton Mill, 1867
R-A-2 Albion RI, Albion Mill, 1830
R-A-3 Arctic RI, Arctic Mill, 1852
R-C-1 Carolina RI, Mill, 1841
R-C-1 Carolina RI
R-C-2 Central Falls RI, Central Falls Woolen Co., 1865
R-C-2a Central Falls RI, Kennedy-Stafford Mill, 1824
R-C-2b Central Falls RI, Pawtucket Hair Cloth, 1864
R-C-2c Central Falls RI, Pawtucket Thread Mfg., 1825
R-C-2d Central Falls RI, U.S. Cotton Co., 1861
R-C-3 Chepachet RI, Chepachet Mill, 1814
R-C-5 Coventry RI, Harris Mill, 1850
R-C-5a Coventry RI, Anthony Mills, 1810-73
R-E-1 E. Greenwich RI, Bay Mill, 1840
R-E-2 Exeter RI, Lawton Mill, 1830
R-F-1 Fiskville RI, Fiskville worker cottages, 1810-15
R-F-2 Forestdale RI, Stamina Mill, 1860
R-G-1 Georgiaville RI (Smithfield), Georgiaville Mill, 1853
R-G-2 Georgiaville RI (Smithfield), Pooke + Steere Mill 1846
R-H-2 Hope RI, mills, 1807-1844
R-H-3 Harrisville RI, mill #4, 1911
R-H-3a Harrisville RI, mill, n.d.
R-L-1 Lippitt RI (W. Warwick), Lippitt Mill, 1809
R-N-1 North Providence RI, Allendale Mill, 1822
R-N-3 N. Kingston RI, Hamilton Web Co., 1866
R-N-3a N. Kingston RI, Lafayette Mill, 1877
R-N-3b N. Kingston RI, Shady Lea Mill, 1820
R-O-1 Olneyville RI (North Providence), Atlantic Mills, 1851
R-P-1 Pascoag RI, Sayles Mill, 1865
R-P-2 Pawtucket RI, Old Slater Mill, 1793
R-P-2a Pawtucket RI, Conant Thread, 1860
R-P-2b Pawtucket RI, Wilkinson Mill, 1810
R-P-3 Phenix RI, Phenix Mill, 1821
R-P-4 Potter Hill RI, Potter Hill Mills, 1835
R-P-5 Providence RI, Dyersville Mill, 1845
R-P-5b Providence RI, Merino Mills, 1851
R-P-5c Providence RI, Allen Print Works, 1830
R-P-6 Peacedale RI, mills, 1847
R-Q-1 Quidnick RI, mills, 1848
R-R-1 Riverpoint RI, Green-Royal Mill, 1890-1919
R-R-2 Rockville RI, mills, 1844
R-S-1 Slaterville RI, Slaterville Cotton Mill, 1826
R-S-2 Shannock RI (Richmond), Shannock Mill, 1848
R-S-3 S. Kingston RI, Glen Rock Mill, after 1840
R-S-3a S. Kingston RI, Wakefield Woolen, 1820
R-S-3b S. Kingston RI, Rodman Mill, 1843
R-W-3 West Warwick RI, Centerville Mills, 1807
R-W-3a West Warwick RI, Crompton Mills, 1807
R-W-5 Warwick RI, Pontiac Mills 1863
R-W-1 Woonsocket RI, Ballou-Lippitt Mill, 1836
R-W-1b Woonsocket RI, Jencks Mill, 1822
R-W-1c Woonsocket RI, Bernon Mills, 1827
R-W-1e Woonsocket RI, Harris Mill #2, 1840
R-W-2 White Rock RI (Westerly), White Rock Mill, 1849
R-W-4 Westerly RI, Stillmanville Mill, 1848
V-B-1 Bennington VT, Valentine Mill, 1824
V-B-1a Bennington VT, Bradford Mill
V-B-1b Bennington VT, Holden + Leonard Mill
V-B-1c Bennington VT, Thompson Mfg.
V-B-1d Bennington VT, Cooper Knitting Mill
V-L-1 Ludlow VT, Graymont Woolen Co.
Non-Textile Factories
CVH Northampton Project
Cotton Hollow Work
Mill Towns Research
24 negative sleves
6 negative sleeves
3 negative sleeves
39 negative sleeves
16 negative sleeves
22 negative sleeves
9 negative sleeves
9 negative sleeves
21 negative sleeves
13 negative sleeves
16 negative sleeves
16 negative sleeves
19 negative sleeves
10 negative sleeves
15 negative sleeves
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 11 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 10 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 15 sheets
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 10 negatives
13 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
2 sheets, 18 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 11 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 11 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 megatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 9 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 10 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 10 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 9 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 34 negatives
2 sheets, 63 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 7 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 envelope, 25 negative sheets
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 42 negatives
1 sheet, 42 negatives
1 sheet, 30 negatives
1 sheet, 20 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 7 negatives
1 sheet, 32 negatives
1 sheet, 17 negatives
1 sheet, 28 negatives
1 sheet, 28 negatives
1 sheet, 36 negatives
1 sheet, 39 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 1 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 11 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
2 sheets, 36 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 11 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 envelope, 11 negative sleeves
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 1 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 11 negatives
1 sheet
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 12 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 35 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 16 negatives
1 sheet, 14 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet,15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 11 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet,15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet,15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 13 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 10 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
1 sheet, 15 negatives
19 negative strips
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 18 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
5 sheets, 96 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 15 slides
1 sheet, 19 slides
1 sheet, 19 slides
1 sheet, 17 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 17 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 19 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 18 slides
1 sheet, 17 slides
1 sheet, 17 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 19 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 10 slides
1 sheet, 15 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
some slides individually marked, include: Lisbon (1), Balum (7), Marfa (2), Obidas (1), Obidas Estrugon de Convento (1)
1 sheet, 20 slides
2 slides marked individually: Obidas (2)
1 sheet, 20 slides
some slides marked individually: Busaco (2), Marfau (8)
1 sheet, 20 slides
some slides marked individually: Marfau (2), Maruao (8)
1 sheet, 20 slides
some slides marked individually: Evora March 1997 (1), Evora (2), Maruoa (1), Pousada-Evora (1)
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 slide marked Evora-Roll 4
1 sheet, 6 slides
1 slide marked Evora-Roll 4
1 sheet, 20 slides
2 slides marked Madrid
1 sheet, 20 slides
4 slides marked Bourgos
1 sheet, 20 slides
1 sheet, 20 slides
some slides marked individually: Bilbao (2), Santillana del Mar (1)
1 sheet, 20 slides
some slides marked individually: Santillana (3), Altamira (1)
1 sheet, 20 slides
some slides marked individually: Gaudi (1), Seqovia (3)
1 sheet, 20 slides
2 slides marked Segovia
1 sheet, 19 slides
some slides marked individually: Seqovia (1), Avila (2), Madrid (2)
1 sheet, 18 slides
1 slide marked Madrid
2 sheets, 39 slides
2 sheets, 36 slides
2 photos
10 photos
2 photos
5 photos
5th photo found within R-P-2 series
2 photos
3 photos
2 photos
10 photos
5 photos
3 photos
1 photos
9 photos
3 photos
4 photos
4 photos
11 photos
2 photos
2 photos
2 photos
4 photos
6 photos
4 photos
4 photos
4 photos
6 photos
4 photos
1 photos
2 photos
15 photos
3 photos
4 photos
2 photos
8 photos
3 photos
2 photos
4 photos
2 photos
2 photos
3 photos
8 photos
2 photos
8 photos
1 photos
16 photos
3 photos
2 photos
1 photos
4 photos
14 photos
2 photos
1 photos
4 photos
7 photos
8 photos
4 photos
10 photos
2 photos
4 photos
4 photos
2 photos
2 photos
2 photos
2 photos
4 photos
4 photos
4 photos
4 photos
4 photos
6 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
2 photos
2 photos
3 photos
3 photos
2 photos
2 photos
2 photos
1 photos
2 photos
2 photos
1 photos
3 photos
1 photos
2 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
2 photos
1 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
2 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
5 photos
2 photos
6 photos
3 photos
4 photos
1 photos
3 photos
3 photos
1 photos
3 photos
1 photos
4 photos
11 photos
10 photos
1 photos
1 photos
7 photos
7 photos
2 photos
2 photos
1 photos
2 photos
4 photos
2 photos
2 photos
2 photos
3 photos
2 photos
3 photos
2 photos
1 photos
3 photos
1 photos
1 photos
3 photos
5 photos
4 photos
1 photos
1 photos
18 photos
4 photos
4 photos
1 photos
14 photos
2 photos
1 photos
3 photos
16 photos
1 photos
1 photos
4 photos
9 photos
13 photos
1 photos
38 photos
2 photos
4 photos
2 photos
3 photos
1 photos
1 photos
7 photos
5 photos
15 photos
23 photos
14 photos
photos
1 photos
5 photos
4 photos
2 photos
4 photos
5 photos
7 photos
9 photos
12 photos
1 photos
photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
4 photos
4 photos
4 photos
9 photos
7 photos
4 photos
8 photos
3 photos
4 photos
2 photos
3 photos
1 photos
3 photos
1 photos
2 photos
6 photos
1 photos
2 photos
2 photos
7 photos
4 photos
1 photos
3 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
2 photos
1 photos
2 photos
5 photos
1 photos
1 photos
3 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
18 photos
4 photos
4 photos
1 photos
2 photos
12 photos
2 photos
5 photos
2 photos
4 photos
1 photos
5 photos
2 photos
3 photos
1 photos
5 photos
10 photos
1 photos
6 photos
4 photos
1 photos
10 photos
4 photos
4 photos
1 photos
6 photos
6 photos
17 photos
27 photos
9 photos
20 photos
2 photos
7 photos
32 photos
23 photos
33 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
268 photos
3 photos
1 photos
2 photos
4 photos
1 photos
5 photos
2 photos
4 photos
1 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
6 photos
1 photos
4 photos
1 photos
1 photos
5 photos
1 photos
1 photos
2 photos
1 photos
6 photos
7 photos
1 photos
7 photos
9 photos
4 photos
3 photos
7 photos
21 photos
66 photos
13 photos
28 photos
5 photos
3 photos
5 photos
5 photos
4 photos
7 photos
2 photos
1 photos
7 photos
2 photos
6 photos
5 photos
5 photos
3 photos
5 photos
3 photos
9 photos
3 photos
16 photos
2 photos
3 photos
2 photos
2 photos
5 photos
5 photos
2 photos
6 photos
3 photos
3 photos
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photos
1 photo
1 photo
1 photos
1 photo
1 photos
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
5 photos
1 photo
2 photos
1 photo
2 photos
3 photos
1 photo
3 photos
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
2 photos
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
9 11"x14" photos; 11 mounted 8"x10" photos
9 photos
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
4 photos
1 photo
2 photos
1 photo
4 photos
1 photo
1 photo
5 items
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
1 photo
7 photos
3 photos
1 photo
3 photos
2 photos
1 photo
1 photo
4 photo
2 photo
1 photo
6 photo
1 photo
Note: many photos are not labeled with location or date
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
2 photos
2 photos
1 photos
1 photos
1 photos
2 photos
1 photos
236 photos
The Alpha Delta Phi Records contain materials created or collected by members of the Middletown Chapter, the Adelphic Literary Society and the Adelphic Educational Fund and span from 1832-2017. Items found in the collection include correspondence, minutes, annual reports, constitutions, by-laws, handbooks, manuals, invitations, newspaper and article clippings, photographs, postcards, publications, songbooks, histories, shirts, event posters, architectural drawings, banners, audio recordings, video recordings, and realia. Audio and visual recordings found in the collection are in the format of reel to reel tape, audiocassette tapes, CD-Roms, videotapes and DVDs. The media format for these items is noted at the folder level. The records are housed in 154 archival document boxes, and 62 custom or oversize boxes.
Of note are the records of or created by Robert G. McKelvey, 1959. Through his years of service to the Middletown Chapter along with his roles of ALS President, AEF President, International President and Society President, Robert McKelvey's records cover many issues that faced the undergraduate and alumni body from the early 1970s to the present. Such issues included the rebuilding of the ALS, establishing a distinct division between the ALS and AEF, reducing debt, developing fundraising among the alumni, navigating the chapter and the International through the co-educational issue, and assisting with the formation of the Alpha Delta Phi Society. Also of note are the records of or created by William K. Wasch, 1952. Through his years of service to the Middletown Chapter along with his roles of Secretary/Treasurer for both the ALS and AEF, his files cover a significant portion of the organizations' histories along with a variety of issues that faced the Middletown Chapter including the transformation of the Society as it broke away from the Fraternity, the monumental debt reduction campaigns of the early 1990s and the financial struggles of the Star & Crescent Club throughout that decade.
The records are arranged into 14 series which are found alphabetical by series name. Most of the 14 series have further been arranged in sub-series which are arranged alphabetically. Due to the variety of filing schemes practiced by the numerous contributors to this collection, files and papers are found in both chronological and reverse chronological order.
Series I: Adelphic Educational Fund (AEF), 1944-2016
Series II: Adelphic Literary Society (ALS), 1881-2015
Series III: Chapter - Alpha Delta Phi - Middletown Chapter, 1856 - , 1856-2017 
Series IV: Co-Educational Issue, 1973-1991
Series V: House and Property, 1856-2011
Series VI: International, 1836-1992
Series VII: Ledgers, 1899-1992
Series VIII: Members, 1852-2015
Series IX: Memorabilia, 1959-2003
Series X: Photographs
Series XI: Society, 1992-2014
Series XII: Songbooks, 1859-2012
Series XIII: Wesleyan, 1946-2014
Series XIV: Publications, 1832-2008
This series consists of the records created by members of the Adelphic Educational Fund, Inc., including the founding of the AEF, meeting minutes, by-laws, grant-in-aid applications, events sponsored by the AEF, financial documents and newspaper clippings. Materials for this series are housed in 12 document boxes, 5 linear feet.
See also: Series II: ALS - Swain (Joseph R. Swain ALS Secretary-Treasurer 1948-1983)
Series III: Chapter - Assembly Series
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Flannigan, E. Jenny K.
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - McKelvey, Robert G.
This sub-series over time was also referred to as Grants, Grant-in-Aid, Adelphic Aid, or Scholarship.
ALS & AEF meetings were often held jointly.
This series consists of the records created by members of the Adelphic Literary Society including financial records, meeting minutes, correspondence, fundraising records, alumni directories, annual reports, and by-laws. Materials for this series are housed in 31 document boxes, 13 linear feet.
See also: Series VIII: Memebers - Personal Papers - Arnold, Herbert A.
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Cooper, Johnson G.
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Flanningan, E. Jenny K.
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - McKelvey, Robert G.
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Spencer, Donald
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Steffenson, James L.
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Wasch, William K.
Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Yaus, Jeffrey
Contains CDs - Moved to Series X: Photographs.
All Meetings including committees.
See also Series II: ALS - Board Meetings
See also Series III: Chapter - Time Capsule
See also Series II: ALS - Board Meetings
Joseph R. Swain served as the ALS Secretary-Treasurer from 1948-1983.
This series consists of records created by the undergraduate members of the Middletown Chapter of the Alpha Delta Phi. Also included are records related to the Star & Crescent, the chapter's eating club. Materials found within this series include the charter; constitution & by-laws; meeting minutes; correspondence; financial records; officer records, handbooks and manuals; invitations; time capsule and publications. Materials for this series are housed in 50 document boxes and two oversize boxes, 25.5 linear feet.
See also Series VII: Ledgers
Contains VHS & tape reel.
Gaps in years
Contains DVDs.
Contains DVDs.
See also Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Yuhas, Eric
Contains DVD.
Contains VHS.
This series includes correspondence, histories, and newspaper clippings related to the debate to incorporate women members into the Alpha Delta Phi International. Materials for this series are housed in two document boxes, .83 linear feet.
See also Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Polin, Jane
This series contains the records related to the fundraising, purchasing, building, maintenance, and furnishing of both houses built by the Middletown Chapter, the first in 1884 and the second in 1904. Items found in this series include correspondence, architectural drawings, deeds, maps and mortgages. Materials for this series are housed in six document boxes and one oversize box, 5.5 linear feet.
See also Series V: House & Property - Renovations
Removed to Series X: Photographs
Contains CD-roms
Includes constitution, correspondence, convention documents, officer handbooks, annual reports, visitation reports, publications and history. Materials for this series are housed in six document boxes, 2.5 linear feet.
See also Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Yuhas, Eric
See also Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Wasch, William K. for missing Convention records.
See also Series II: ALS - Board Meetings
This series contains the recordings of accounts for members, treasurers and the Star & Crescent Eating Club. These accounts were recorded in bound ledgers, with the exception of one folder of unbound ledger sheets. Materials for this series are housed in one document box and 15 oversize boxes, 9.4 linear feet.
This series contains records related to or of undergraduate or after graduate members and includes AEF, ALS and Chapter related records of officers; correspondence; article clippings; newspaper clippings; postcards; pins; a scrapbook; and realia. The Vertical File sub-series contains materials that were collected by those other than the named individual and may have been added to over a period of time. The Personal Papers sub-series consists of materials created and organized by the named individual, most of whom are past ALS Presidents. Materials for this series are housed in 65 document boxes and three custom or oversize boxes, 32 linear feet.
See also Series VIII: Members - Personal Realia - Littell, Frank Bowers.
See also Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - McKelvey, Robert G.
See also Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Wasch, William K.
See also Series VIII: Members - Personal Papers - Yuhas, Eric.
Herbert A. Arnold served as a board member of the ALS and was Chairman of the Scholarship Committee. His files span from 1980-1991.
Johnson Cooper served as Chairman of Membership & Alumni Records Committee for the ALS. His records range from 1974-1982.
These records cover Coulombe's time as Historian for the Chapter.
The files of Jenny Flannigan cover her tenure as President of the ALS from 1996 October 19 - 2002 June, include the First Society Annual Convention which was hosted by the Middletown Chapter and document the extensive and major renovations to the Chapter House. Jenny also served as a board member of the AEF. These files span from 1992-2003.
Contains VHS videotapes.
Contains CD-Rom.
Contains cassette tape.
Contains cassette tape.
Contains VHS.
Contains VHS.
Robert G. McKelvey became president of the ALS in 1971 and of the AEF in 1974. The ALS and the AEF had functionally collapsed into one organization. This situation threatened the tax-exempt status of the AEF. The late 1960s and early 1970s were restless times at Wesleyan and the chapter was affected. The files cover a make or break period of the chapter's history.
The files below were accessioned at a later date from the initial accession of records. These files were created or collected during McKelvey's time as AEF President from 1971-2015, span from 1884-2015 and have been kept in original order of alphabetical and chronological arrangement.
Contains DVD.
Contains DVD.
Contains CD.
The records of Jane Polin '80 are from her undergraduate years as chairman on different committees for the Chapter, with a small amount of material from post graduate years as a board member of the ALS. The records range from 1978-1986.
The records of Don Spencer '77 cover his time as ALS President from 1994-1996 with a small amount of material from later years as a board member of the ALS. The records range from 1977-1999.
The records of James L. Steffenson cover his time serving in a variety of capacities such as board member of the ALS, Chairman of the Scholarship Committee, and Faculty Advisor to the House. The records range from 1974-1980 and are arranged in reverse chronological order.
Bill Wasch '52 became Secretary of the ALS in 1984 and Secretary of the AEF in 1988, though he had been a member of both organizations' boards since the late 1960s. He later became the Treasurer of both the ALS and AEF. He has been Secretary/Treasurer for a significant portion of both organizations' histories, so his files cover a wide variety of events. These files include the transformation of the Society as it broke away from the Fraternity, the monumental debt reduction campaigns of the early 1990s and the financial struggles of the Star & Crescent throughout that decade. These files span from 1944-2007 and are arranged in alphabetical and chronological order.
The files of Jeffrey Yaus consist of records created or collected during his time as ALS President from 2002-2005. The records span from 1970-2005.
The files of Eric Yuhas '88 consist of records created or collected during his time as Chapter House Manager, Treasurer and President, with the earlier records possibly passed on by previous presidents. The records span from 1978-1988.
The 1978 annual convention was hosted by the Middletown Chapter.
These items consist of a coffeepot and sugar pot and email correspondence between Frederick Burnham's grandson and Leslie Starr regarding the acquisition of those personal items, which belonged to Frederick, class of 1912, and his wife, Ramona Hubbard, and are believed to have been given as a gift from the ADP, Middletown Chapter.
These items consist of two pins and a brief typed biography of John Edward Eustis, class of 1874.
These items consist of a pin and email correspondence regarding the acquisition of an ADP pin of Frank Littell, class of 1891. Found within the email correspondence is a brief biography on Littell.
Materials for this series are housed in five oversize boxes, 3.5 linear feet.
These t-shirts are tie-dyed pledge shirts, basic APD logo shirts and shirts from International or Society conventions. The shirts have been grouped dated and undated and are arranged in chronological order when dates are provided.
Includes photographs and negatives of Alpha Delta Phi members, places, and events. When photographs were found within other series, the photographs were removed from those files and placed in Series X: Photographs. A separation sheet was inserted where the items were removed to note what was moved and to where. When possible, groups of photographs were kept together and labeled accordingly, i.e. House & Property, Members. Materials for this series are housed in three document boxes and two oversize boxes, 3.6 linear feet.
These photographs are either 3x5 or 4x6 and are mostly undated and unidentified.
These files consist of the records created after the Middletown Chapter left the International and joined the Society. Materials include constitution, convention records, correspondence, and publications. Materials for this series are housed in four document boxes, 1.7 linear feet.
See also Series IV: Co-Educational Issue.
This series includes songs & songbooks for Alpha Delta Phi and for Wesleyan University. Materials for this series are housed in three document boxes and two custom boxes, 3 linear feet.
The Songs of Alpha Delta Phi was originally released as a set of three 78 RPM records. Unfortunately, no date is printed on the record labels, so we do not know when these recordings were made. Because the lyrics of We Come With A Shout And A Song require the singers to insert the name of their college, we know that the performers are from the Cornell chapter. The authors, where known, are listed as they appear in the Song Book of Alpha Delta Phi published in 1912.
Contains CDs.
The records in this series document the relations, agreements, and events between Wesleyan University and the Alpha Delta Phi Middletown Chapter or more generally fraternities on campus represented by the Board of House Presidents. Items include correspondence, meeting minutes, reports, event programs and invitations, and newspaper clippings. Materials for this series are housed in two document boxes, .83 linear feet.
This series includes publications other than songbooks of Alpha Delta Phi International and/or the Middletown Chapter and Wesleyan University publications. Materials for this series are housed in six document boxes and seven custom boxes, 3.2 linear feet.
This collection includes operating documents, memoranda, correspondence and notes of the Wesleyan chapter of the AAUP from 1973 to 1987. It also includes published information from the national AAUP and from AAUP branches at other institutions, most notably Yale and Trinity College. It also contains books and pamphlets put out by the AAUP, mainly from the 1970s, as well as membership kits from several years. The chronological files contain notes, memoranda, and correspondence from members of the AAUP to the group, and between the AAUP and the administration.
The largest portion of the collection, Series 1: Accession #2010-10, consists of chronological files from the Wesleyan chapter, beginning in 1973 and ending in 1986. There is a gap with only a few documents from the 1978-1979 school year. The greater part of the documents from 1978-1979 are contained in box 5. The first two boxes are entirely chronological, spanning from August 1973 to May 1982. Box three completes the chronological files up until December 1986. It also includes folders containing undated documents and collected documents on several subjects, including documents from the national AAUP, compensation information from various institutions, historical documents on the reactivation and proposed constitution of the AAUP at Wesleyan, and a copy of the Wesleyan chapter newsletter from February 1983. The fourth box contains published materials from the national AAUP, most notably AAUP membership kits for 1982 and 1985, a copy of The Layman’s Guide to the National Labor Relations Act, a copy of the AAUP Policy Documents and Reports from 1973, A Primer on Collective Bargaining for College and University Faculty, and a hardcover book entitled Faculty Unions and Collective Bargaining. Box 5 contains Series 2: Accession #2005-5, which includes office files covering the period of 1985-1987, and Series 3: Accession #2006-60, containing a number of AAUP papers from January 1978 to March 1980, as well as AAUP publications from 1973. The collection contains mainly typewritten items, but also notes and drafts of documents on lined paper. Many of the documents are on AAUP letterhead.
During the early period, major correspondents include then-President of the University Colin Campbell and Wesleyan AAUP president pro tem Victor Gourevitch. Campbell remains one of the main correspondents in the collection throughout the period from 1973 to 1987. Beginning in 1977, much of the correspondence from the administration is signed by Nathanael Greene, then VP for Academic Affairs, while others are signed by Richard W. Greene. AAUP documents beginning in early 1977 are often signed by Vernon K. Dibble, Peter Kilby, Erhard Konerding, Richard Boyd, Meredith Swenson and/or Andrew Szegedy-Mazak. Of interest in the period of 1975-1976 are several letters to and from then-CIA director George H. W. Bush regarding the activities of the CIA on university campuses. In 1978, several documents feature the signature of Hayden White, then director of the Wesleyan Center for the Humanities. In the later period, (beginning in 1979 or so) Burton Sonnenstein becomes one of the main correspondents for the AAUP. Correspondence from U.S. representatives Sam Gejdenson and Toby Moffett relating to AAUP issues is featured during 1982. Beginning in 1985, David Adams, Henry Abelove, Paul Haake, and Donald Moon were all major correspondents.
The major topic of this collection is the various disputes and negotiations between the AAUP and Wesleyan’s administration in the period between 1973 and 1986. Other topics addressed include the political activities of the AAUP on the national level. Box 1, folder 14 contains documents relating to the AAUP’s opposition to what it saw as the infiltration of universities by the CIA. Of interest are letters to and from the CIA director at the time, George H. W. Bush, as well as printed materials put out by the AAUP on the subject of the CIA’s dealings with universities. In box 3, folders 10-15 are arranged thematically. Folder 10 contains AAUP documents published by the national organization during 1985 and 1986. Folder 11 contains information on compensation at various colleges and universities considered to be Wesleyan’s peer institutions. Folder 12 contains historical documents on the reactivation of the AAUP at Wesleyan, as well as a draft of the group’s constitution. Folder 14 contains documents sent from the national AAUP to the chapter head at Wesleyan, and Folder 15 contains collected salary information from Wesleyan and its peer institutions throughout the period of 1973-1986. Box 5, folders 1 and 2 are AAUP office files covering 1986-87 and contain an agenda, correspondence, faculty compensation and housing information etc. Box 5 also contains documents relating to the Center for the Humanities and Wesleyan University’s investments in South Africa as of 1978. The AAUP advocated for divestment from South African businesses as a protest of apartheid.
The collection contains folders for each of the groups represented on campus that were active in anti-nuclear arms protests. These folders contain an array of information on the groups. Memos to and from the student groups and faculty as well as documents with their budgets, meeting minutes and membership lists are all included. Many groups also have a group statement with their goals as a group along with information on the greater anti-nuclear movement.
The first folder contains information on the Committee on Environmental Awareness. It includes memos about funding, budget write-ups and allocations. It also contains the goals of the group, a letter to the College Body Committee along with flyers from the group, information on film showings and newspaper clippings and papers on their activities.
The second folder documents from the Connecticut Citizen's conference, which holds pamphlets on their conference in 1983 and pictures of students lobbying.
Folders three through eleven contain information on the Nuclear Resistance Group. Each folder is divided by document type-correspondence, articles and news on the group, notes, films, agendas etc. Folder three and four contain reports and minutes on the Nuclear Power Forum, copies of the Radioactivist Flash, and events bulletin and announcements. Folder five contains proposals, a press announcement and informational flyers on Seabrook and the Reactor Pressure Vessel. The sixth folder contains information pertaining to the Clamshell Alliance and their activities and relationship with Wesleyan. Folder seven contains information on films shown, including receipts from where the films were obtained. Folder eight consists of member information; mailing lists, directories, phone lists and meeting minutes. Folder nine includes notes about the group, letters with other coalitions and dates of correspondence and demonstrations and films. Folder ten consists of press on the group and their demonstrations while folder eleven contains group history, editorials, press release and publications and film lists.
Folder twelve is documents on the group Students Opposed to the Nuclear Arms Race. This folder has the contents of their Alternative Education Forum, flyers, letters to student activists and editors from 1984 as well as information of Nuclear Free Zone and nuclear weapons.
Organized alphabetically by group name.
Contains documents regarding the Committee on Environmental Awareness at Wesleyan in the 1970's including flyers, memos, budgetary information, and correspondence.
Folder contains photos and a pamphlet from 1983.
Folders three through eleven contain information on the Nuclear Resistance Group. Each folder is divided by document type, such as correspondence, articles and news on the group, notes, films, and agendas.
This folder has the contents of their Alternative Education Forum, flyers, letters to student activists and editors from 1984 as well as information about the Nuclear Free Zone and nuclear weapons.
The content of the John E. Andrus Papers collection spans many subjects and years. The earliest documents are found in the first folder and are from his final years at school. The folder otherwise consists of general letters written and received by Andrus throughout his life. A few are about his time at school, but most are in reference to his later occupations, including his teaching position and tenure as Mayor of Yonkers. A particularly touching letter is in response to a note of bereavement from a friend or acquaintance. Andrus's response thanks this person, and describes his deep sadness at the loss of his wife in poignant prose. Another personal letter is to his daughter, Ida, expressing his desire to help with her (unstated) illness in whatever way he can. A final letter in the collection is to then-President of McConaughy of Wesleyan, announcing his resignation from the position of trustee at Wesleyan due to his declining health.
The second folder contains a single document, a selection from an alumnus newsletter in 1930. This newsletter announces Andrus' recent distinction as oldest living alumnus, and includes a rather touching and fascinating letter from Andrus to the University community. In this letter, Andrus recounts a rather amusing story about his journey from New York to Wesleyan in the late 1850s and expresses his hopes for Wesleyan students and alumni.
The third folder consists of a collection of general notes and writings, including papers related to do the Union Line Railroad and the United States Treasury. There is also an unlabeled and rather unusual, poetic document that discusses what Andrus (presumably) would bequeath to seven grandchildren. Additionally, there is a long handwritten speech, presumably given to a group of Wesleyan Alumni sometime after the turn of the century.
The final folder includes a collection of academic essays written by Andrus, presumably in his time at school, on a range of subjects from science to religion.
Documents are arranged by type and date.
This collection contains meeting notes from the April 29 Coalition and their arrangements for the May 12, 1982 North College Sit-in to reinstate Wesleyan University's aid-blind admissions policy. Since this occurred before the invention of cell phones, there are many letters written by the 19 students who spent 150 hours locked in North College. The coalition had a team of runners that would deliver supplies and messages to those locked in. The sit-in was also during the same time as reading week and the annual Spring Fling concert.
The sit-in caused some unusual problems. For example, the university locked the students out of the bathroom facilities. If they were to leave to go to the bathroom they would be locked out. In response to this situation, students used a bag in a corner of one of the administrators' offices and periodically lowered the bag of refuse out the window. In response, the administration reported them to Student Judicial Board (SJB) and tried to shut the sit-in down. The SJB decided that the bathrooms should be unlocked, the students should be allowed support runners, and the students should move to more public offices.
The collection includes meeting notes of the April 29th Coalition and a series of press releases sent out about the status of the negotiations with President Colin Campbell. Separate from the movement, there is a letter of solidarity written to the students of Medgar Evers College. Even though their grievances with their administration were different (such as the lack of a black studies program even though the campus was 90 percent black, and the lack of day-care facilities at a school with 73 percent female enrollment, over half of them with children), they shared in their goal for equal access education and student power in decision making.
The bulk of the Apostles Club Records are meeting minutes, which were recorded beginning in 1894 until the last meeting in 1967, although they become increasingly more detailed in later years. Up until early 1952 the minutes were recorded in journals, but after that the secretaries began to type them. The minutes specified host and presenter for each meeting, as well as the topic of discussion. In addition to minutes, there are a few pieces of correspondence from 1939, two clippings about the Apostles Club from 1895 and 1897, and lists of members between 1920 and 1965.
Content of this collection spans from about 2005 to about 2008.
The first folder consists of three cloth signs emblazoned with slogans supporting the tenure of Professor Isaac.
The second folder contains a CD with a variety of documents. A few dozen photos from a rally for Professor Isaac's tenure, a letter to then-future President Roth about the Isaac issue, a Wespeak about Asian American studies, and miscellaneous meeting notes and attendance sheets, are among the documents.
The third and last folder includes paper copies of some of the photos from the rally to support Isaac, a letter to various Asian American activist listservs about the Isaac issue, a letter to Williams BiLGATA about protesting Wesleyan President Douglas Bennet's honorary Williams degree because of his lack of support for Professor Isaac, and numerous letters from concerned students and alumnus to President Roth expressing support for Isaac. Also included is a pamphlet entitled "Diversity University?-Asian American Studies at Wesleyan, Past, Present, and Future" which highlights some of the protestor's key issues. Other documents have more to do with the AASC as a student group-meeting and organization fliers, a letter to the Student Budget Committee (SBC) about funding requests, mission statements, and an Asian American Studies Cluster introduction. Finally, a letter detailing the request to reconsider Professor Isaac's tenure, signed as a petition by hundreds of students.
This collection contains complete minutes of the meetings of the council from 1903-1958, a redrafted constitution following the 1923 change in responsibilities, and account books containing departmental and individual teams’ expenses. For the first constitution of the Athletic Council, see the Argus, 18 May 1904.
Two volumes.
Three volumes. Contents include examples of weekly balance sheets, departmental accounts for athletic and medical supplies, intramural athletics, coaching salaries, and complete budgetary and account information for the following teams: basketball, baseball, football, swimming, tennis and track.
The Atwater Family Papers contain the publications, personal papers and letters of members of Wilbur Olin Atwater's family. The collection centers around Wilbur Olin Atwater, Marcia Atwater (his wife), William Atwater (his father), Helen Atwater (his daughter) and Charles Atwater (his son). The majority of the collection is composed of letters written and received by the aforementioned people. They primarily discuss familial, financial or personal matters; with the exception of the papers of Helen Atwater, for whom there are is significant collection of papers and publications relating to her work in the field of Home Economics. The correspondence centers on family topics; current events are rarely discussed in the letters.
Materials are arranged alphabetically by name.
Grandmother of Wilbur O. Atwater.
Mother of Wilbur O. Atwater.
Sister of Wilbur O. Atwater.
Aunt of Wilbur O. Atwater.
Uncle of Willbur O. Atwater.
Wife of Willbur O. Atwater.
Father of Wilbur O. Atwater.
Maternal grandmother of Wilbur O. Atwater.
Belle - Sister of Wilbur O. Atwater
This collection contains a number of volumes that document personal and team records for Wesleyan teams including both Wesleyan records and intercollegiate athletic records set during athletic contests. Some volumes contain detailed scoring information and statistics from teams including baseball and football. There are also 2006 football playbooks, and a 207-2007 Student-Athlete Handbook. Other sports represented in the collection include golf, hockey, lacrosse, basketball, swimming, boating, softball, and tennis. Some financial records and correspondence related to individual teams is also present. Many of these volumes were created before the founding of the Wesleyan Athletic Council, when each team had its own supporting and administrative organization, and complement some portions of the Athletic Council Records, which are also housed in the Wesleyan University Archives.
These scorebooks are in four volumes.
This item is a ledger book.
This cash book is in two volumes.
The Atwater Family Papers are arranged in 13 series by family member and material form.
Includes his handwritten six-page biography, and anonymous threats made in response to his work towards the "overthrow of rum traffic" in northern Vermont.
Includes his correspondence and personal papers. Atwater's letters to his future wife include commentary on his classes, lectures and concerts he attended. He records his observations of people he meets in Washington, D.C. and abroad including his introduction to Leon Trotsky (1897). The series includes letters to his children. The series also contains some personal papers from his days at Wesleyan, a diary of study notes and lab notebooks, and correspondence and other materials documenting his travels in Brussels, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Russia, and Cuba. His letters sometimes mention plans for the Chicago World's Fair (1893) and the Bruxelles Exposition Universelle.
Contains Marcia's correspondence with her husband and children and with her father, Abram Woodard, her sister, Sarah Woodard, and brother, Charles Woodard. There is small amount of correspondence with others. She writes of family matters, her and her family's travel, visitors, and house matters. The personal papers include financial and estate documents and documents regarding the care of cousin Frederick Adams and the guardianship of Arthur Spatcher.
Contains Helen's correspondence with her parents and her brother Charles. A modest amount of correspondence describes a possible move of the Home Economics department from the Department of Agriculture to the Bureau of Standards. There are some letters from "Willie" Kits van Warren describing war-time and post-war experiences in Haarlem, Holland. Also in this series is some personal correspondence, financial and estate papers including her mother's trust fund, household accounts, and tax returns.
Contains correspondence between Charles and Alice before their marriage. There is also correspondence between Charles and his sister, Helen Woodard Atwater, his parents, and friends. He writes to his future wife about college life at Wesleyan University, and a "machine ride" (car ride) in 1907. At a later period he writes about family activities and sailing. There are letters to his sister with occasional investment and banking advice, and his concern for the pending departure from the gold standard, noting in 1932 "it is anti-social to horde money at this stage."
Contains letters from Alice Merriam to Charles Atwater, most written before their marriage. She describes her social life at Smith College and then in Middletown. There is a small amount of correspondence with others.
Contains mostly correspondence between Catherine, sometimes "Kitty", and her brother Robert. Catherine's letters to her brother, Charles Woodard Atwater, Jr. are in Series VIII. There is some correspondence in this series relating to their brother's care and condition, settling their mother's estate, the challenges of growing children and later challenges of caring for a disabled spouse. The series also includes Catherine's articles, correspondence, and research notes on her family history of William Warren Atwater and Wilbur Olin Atwater.
Contains his correspondence and papers. Charles' letters describe his work as a farm hand prior to college and during vacations, his service experience as Pharmacist's Mate, and his deepening interest in foreign policy immediately following his military service. Most of the incoming letters from family members have news of children, travel, and house; a small portion touches on his mental health and care. His sister's letters to aunts or cousins are located in this series as enclosures with their letters to Charles. More family correspondence concerning his health and care is found in Series VII in letters between his siblings Catherine Atwater Galbraith and Robert Atwater. The correspondence is arranged chronologically, the personal papers are arranged alphabetically by topic.
Contains miscellaneous items relating to the Atwater family as a whole (rather than individual family members).
Contains miscellaneous items relating to the Merriam family as a whole (rather than individual family members). The series includes the postcard collection started by Mrs. Joseph Merriam and added to by family members. The postcards include American and European sites; some cards were sent by family members and friends.
Includes individual portrait photographs of Atwater, Woodard and Merriam family members. There are also some family group portraits and events, as well as few casual photographs of family members and their interests. There are photographs of Wilbur Olin Atwater's laboratory and his annotations on photographs from his 1903 trip to Europe. The photographs are organized by family member; family small group photographs are filed with the older generation (i.e. grandmother and granddaughter filed with the grandmother).
Annie W. Bingham, undated
W. H. Burnett, undated
Macie D?, Vergennes, VT, 1865
Mary Green, Vergennes, VT, undated
Frances Hine, Colchester, VT, 1864
Hattie Hine, Colchester, VT, undated
Louise Hine, Colchester, VT, undated
Louise Judd, Vergennes, VT, 1865
Frau Peschka-Leubrier, undated
G. W. Shearer, Crown Point, undated
Mrs. M. Doane Willard, Vergennes, VT, 1868
Nellie Wright, Spencer, Mass., undated
Marcia Atwater, Fannie Greene, Mollie Greene,
Dorrine Smith, Anna Tucker, 1867 Sep 12
Mollie Hubbard, Laurie Smith, Anna Tucker,
Doane Willard Vergennes, VT, 1867 Jul 21
Contains printed and published material by, about, or owned by the Atwater family. Their recreational and occupational interests are represented. The series is organized in two loose alphabetical sequences.
Contains items from other series that require large housing.
The Stephen Beekman Bangs Letters consist of letters dating from 1840 to 1841 from Bangs to his friend and Yale student, Sylvester Smith. Topics of conversation include Bangs planning visits to see Smith in New Haven, Bangs' preference of the city of New Haven over Middletown, discussion of activities and classes at Wesleyan, Bangs' poor health and temporary leaving the University, and discussion of mutual friends and acquaintances.
The Osmon C. Baker Collection is arranged into two main series. The first, Accession #1000-85, contains materials from Baker's education at Wesleyan University, including notes, essays, and an autograph album. The second series, Accession #1000-208, is mostly comprised of correspondence to and from Baker. The correspondence begins during Baker's time at the Wesleyan Academy and continues to his service as a bishop in the Methodist Episcopal Church. The series also includes family materials and a small number of writings by Baker.
Subjects include Acids, Experiments, Botany, Legislation, Moral Reasoning, Light, Government, Politics, Art, and Chemistry
Contains entries (poems, inscriptions, and drawings) dated from Baker’s time at Wilbraham Academy and Wesleyan University, 1828-1833. Title page has imprint of E. Hunt & Co., Middletown, Conn.
11 letters.
5 letters.
6 letters.
Family history, legal documents, materials belonging to family members.
An appeal from the Alumni Library Fund (1863) and a Commencement/Alumni activities program (1856).
Many date from Baker's time at the Wilbraham Academy and Wesleyan University.
Series I: Executive service
Series II: Legislative service 
Series III: Roosevelt Center for American Policy Studies
Series IV: National Public Radio
Series V: Personal
Series VI: News Clips
As much as possible, the original folder titles have been maintained. In the container list below, these titles have been transcribed as accurately as possible. There is not a distinction made between the original folder titles and those provided by the processor.
Bennet's papers are filed in reverse date order, with the most recent in front. This arrangement has been maintained where found within a folder. The folders themselves are arranged in progressive date order. Thus, folders will be filed January to December, but within the January folder the first page would be January 31.
Series I: Executive service
Bennet worked for the State Department for much of his professional career. His first professional assignment, from 1963 to 1966, was in India as assistant to the economic advisor for the Agency for International Development, and then as special assistant to Ambassador Chester Bowles. Bennet was Assistant Secretary of State in two capacities: for Congressional Relations from 1977 to 1979, and for International Organization Affairs from 1993 to 1995. He also served as administrator for the Agency for International Development (AID) from 1979 to 1981. Bennet's executive service also included employment as a speech writer for Vice President Hubert Humphrey from 1967 to 1968. The collection contains realia from the 1968 Humphrey/Muskie presidential campaign.
This series contains "chron files," which are chronological correspondence. Files labeled "personal correspondence" are formal letters which relate to professional issues. The series also contains many speeches written by Bennet during his India days, as well as speeches written for Vice President Humphrey during his 1968 bid for the presidency. Bennet traveled extensively as administrator for AID and this sub-series contains many photographs.
Series II: Legislative service
Bennet was administrative assistant to two senators, Thomas F. Eagleton of Missouri from 1969 to 1973, and Abraham A. Ribicoff of Connecticut from 1973 to 1974. Bennet made an unsuccessful run for the House of Representatives in 1974, and went on to be staff director of the newly formed Senate Budget Committee from 1974 to 1977.
The Eagleton sub-series documents the fraught 1972 campaign with Eagleton as the running mate of George McGovern. The series documents Bennet's active role in framing the 1972 Democratic platform. There are also extensive newspaper clippings as well as files on the pivotal 18 days in July of 1972 when Eagleton was under siege and eventually withdrew. A PDF containing a list of magazines with coverage of this event which were removed from this part of the collection is available at: Magazines Removed (http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/MagazinesRemoved.pdf).
The documentation of Bennet's brief tenure as administrative assistant to Senator Ribicoff is minimal. It is represented only by "memos," which are the equivalent of "chron files." His departure was voluntary, driven by his decision to run for the House of Representatives in the 1974 election. This section of the collection is interesting for the insider's guide it provides to mounting a national campaign. This sub-series consists entirely of correspondence and subject files.
The Senate Budget Committee (SBC) sub-series contains chron files and subject files, including some speeches. The bulk of the series, however, is composed of the history of the SBC during its first two years. A PDF containing a list of government documents removed from this part of the collection is available at: Gov Docs Removed (http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/GovDocsRemoved.pdf).
Series III: Roosevelt Center for American Policy Studies
The Roosevelt Center series documents Bennet's 18 months as president of a new public policy think tank. The papers document his active engagement in the creation of this organization. They also document his dismissal by the chairman of the board.
Because Bennet was between jobs from January to December of 1981 and from June to December of 1983, this series contains materials that precede and extend beyond his actual tenure at the Center.
Series IV: National Public Radio (NPR)
The bulk of Bennet's papers from his ten years as president of NPR are held at the  National Public Broadcasting Archives, [http://www.lib.umd.edu/NPBA/].
The papers contained in this series give evidence of Bennet's success in bringing that organization from a tenuous financial position to one with a bright future. Much of the series is composed of speeches and articles from that period. There are also files on speech topics of particular interest to public radio. The subject files span the ten years, from early objectives to his eventual departure. A PDF containing a list of books removed from this part of the collection is available at: Books Removed (http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/BooksRemoved.pdf).
Subjects such as "AID correspondence" fall under this series due to their date range and original location within the papers, even though they are not directly related to NPR.
Series V: Personal
The personal series has three sub-series: correspondence, education, and subject files. Since these are primarily professional papers, personal correspondence is not well represented, although there is a collection of family Christmas cards sent by Bennet's parents throughout his childhood. There are also letters from his time in India from 1963 to 1965.
The education sub-series contains class notebooks, papers, and bibliographies from Bennet's years at Wesleyan, UC Berkeley, and Harvard. Of particular note is the file: "EQV: a history" [EQV stands for Esse Quam Videre]. This file documents Wesleyan's break with the fraternity Alpha Chi Rho on the grounds of intolerance, an event in which Bennet played a significant role.
Noteworthy in the subject files is a family scrapbook. The items in this scrapbook were not pasted in and are now housed in an acid free folder. Included are handwritten notes, presumably from Bennet's mother, explaining some of the documents. The scrapbook also contains an embroidered 19th century sampler.
Series VI: News Clips
News Clips are compilations of clippings prepared by the State Department's Office of Press Relations in the Bureau of Public Affairs. They were published daily. This series is a substantially complete run from 1993 March to 1995 May, during Bennet's time as Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs.
This collection consists of a notebook created by Eldon Benjamin Birdsey in 1917. The notebook was made for J.W. Hewitt, a classics professor at Wesleyan and friend of Birdsey. The notebook includes various entries dealing with Birdsey's philosophy on life, observances of nature, his own poetry, quoted poetry, and Middletown. The notebook also includes transcribed correspondence from Birdsey to friends of Birdsey. The correspondence ranges in date from 1898 to 1913. The document also includes materials added after the death of Birdsey including his obituary and a chronology of important events in his life.
This collection consists of a single notebook.
The diary of Lorenzo Whiting Blood was written from 1835 when he was a freshman at Wesleyan, to 1844, when he was a Methodist minister in Mystic, Connecticut. During this period, Blood traveled throughout much of Connecticut, along with some stops in Massachusetts (where his future wife lived) and New York City. Blood wrote about many Methodist ministers, especially his professor Dr. Fisk, as well as many parish members throughout his travels. Blood does not dwell too often on any one person; though he does occasionally mention his wife, Elizabeth Smith and first child, Mary, it is only when something dire occurs that they are mentioned. Blood dwells heavily upon his faith towards God, often ending almost every entry with some assurance to his everlasting devotion to the Almighty. There are also three brief mentions of Blood's sentiments towards abolitionism.
Blood often remarked about Wesleyan University's student body being somewhat unfaithful towards the Methodist faith, and expresses his sentiments towards a more conscious school. There are many Methodist churches written about by Blood in his diary, including, The African Church, Farm Hill, Westfield Baptist Church, Staddle Hill, along with the churches in Litchfield and Mystic where he was a minister. Blood also spends a great deal of time discussing the educational facilities of Wesleyan University and the Amenia Seminary, along with schools he created in Cheshire and Bradleysville. Blood also took part in many of the regional Methodist quarterly meetings, including the North East conference at Lymn. The diary is written to page 131 but pages 4 through 12 are blank. Also, the physical design of the diary is about 200 pages, but there is nothing written from page 131 to 200, except for a few names in the very back of the book. The diary is entirely handwritten in cursive, and although the first page appears to be written in Latin, the rest of the book is completely in English.
The majority of the diary entries date from Blood's time at Wesleyan University from 1835 to 1838. Blood starts the journal with a look into his past as he explains being raised by Hindal, a cloth trader, who used to beat him regularly. He then identifies himself as a freshman at Wesleyan University, who is training to be a minister of the Methodist faith. During his freshman year he became a member of the Missionary Lyceum, and mentions a member of Colored Preachers who was very helpful. After completing his exams, Blood traveled to the state prison in Wethersfield where he preached to about two hundred inmates with good behavior. Also during his summer break, Blood visited a school for the deaf at Hartford where he was amazed at the conversations with their hands. He also attended a Methodist quarterly meeting where there were joyous celebrations all night. After the Annual Commencement at Wesleyan on August 23, 1835, Blood spoke at the African Church on September 27, where he was shocked at their zealousness.
On November 14, 1835, Blood left Wesleyan University to teach at a school in Cheshire; however, on March 10, 1836 Blood had to close his school. Blood then returned to Wesleyan University, but unfortunately had to take twice the normal course load. Back at Wesleyan, he preached at the Alms House and Farm Hill, but he still wished to do more. After his sophomore examinations, Blood went to his hometown to visit his mother and his future wife, Elizabeth Smith. At home he discovered his brother was planning to leave on a whaling voyage, so he rushed off to Coostan, Massachuetts to stop him. Though finding his brother's ship to have terrible living standards, Blood let his brother go because he wanted to explore the world. During the start of the new semester, Blood writes that he has doubts about his faith towards God and it makes him want to cry. However, Blood recovered and on November 3, 1836, he left Wesleyan University again, this time to teach at the Amenia Seminary.
After some initial hesitation, Blood became fully acquainted with the Amenia Seminary and became a valuable member of the school. On March 16, 1837, Blood contracted the measles, leaving him on the verge of death for two months during his stay in the Amenia Seminary. However, with the help of Dr. Stanton and Mrs. Clark, he was able to recover and returned to Middletown. Soon after returning, however, Blood was called back to the Amenia Seminary by the new headmaster, Clark. After the term finished on October 13, Blood traveled to New York City, then back to Middletown. By winter break, Blood was again near the top of his class in most of his studies and was preaching frequently at Staddle Hill. His last semester at Wesleyan University passed by uneventfully, and after he completed his final examination, Blood went to Litchfield where he preached in different three churches. On August 4, 1838, Blood went back to Middletown for his commencement where he graduated with 26 other men. After returning to Litchfield, Blood decided to set up a select school in Bradleysville on November 13.
In the February 2, 1839 diary entry, Blood crosses out a large portion of the entry seemingly because it discusses the adultery of a parish member and questions whether the husband will ever come back to the family. In the following entry, another section is crossed out which reads that the husband did in fact come back.
On March 1, Blood had to close his school yet again, and decided to go on a pilgrim to sojourns. After his travels he decided to go to the Methodist North East Conference at Lymn, where he was upset about the lack of discussion of abolitionism. On June 19, 1839, Blood married Elizabeth Smith and received notice that he would be preaching in a small Methodist church in South Hadley. Here he lived in a one room apartment near the Church, which though it was small, was comfortable. On March 1, 1841, Blood's first daughter, Mary, was born, and soon after Blood was ordained as deacon to Stafford. On June 17, 1843, Blood attended the Eastford Conference, which to his bitterness upheld the doctrine of slavery. The issue was once again brought up at the General Conference, but out of the fear of the southern Methodist breaking away from the Church, slavery was again upheld. The diary ends with Blood being appointed to Mystic, Connecticut, as the Methodist minister there.
The Broadside Case Collection contains many oversized documents from a variety of sources. Included are photographs, architectural drawings, posters, maps, and other material related to Wesleyan University.
Given by Sally L. Adams, granddaughter of Oscar F. Cargill, April 2010
Note: Fragile. See Vertical File for photocopies
The professional papers of Wesleyan's eleventh president, Dr. Victor Lloyd Butterfield, span from 1910-1975 with the bulk of the material from Butterfield's time as President from 1943-1967. The papers include correspondence, reports, meeting minutes, appointment calendars, speeches, newspaper clippings and photographs. Aside from the administrative records, the papers include some material from Butterfield's childhood, his time as Director of Admissions at Wesleyan, his involvement in professional activities and his post-retirement life. A small section of the materials are those of Katharina Geyer Butterfield, Victor's wife.
The original order of these records has been maintained. Some areas contain groupings of records that are Butterfield's personal, professional activities or post-retirement records rather than administrative records during his time as president:
Boxes 68-88 include personal and professional activity materials.
Boxes 90-95 include personal materials.
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy), See Also: Exeter, Reed Exchange
empty
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
(McConaughy)
Answers to letter 1942 June 24
(McConaughy)
Study by Mr. Camp & Mr. Babbit
(McConaughy)
Value of Liberal Arts
Pages tied with string
Pages tied with string
Pages tied with string
missing, orange tag inserted in place
missing, orange tag inserted in place
(McConaughy)
empty
missing, orange tag inserted in place
missing, orange tag inserted in place
missing, orange tag inserted in place
missing, orange tag inserted in place
missing, orange tag inserted in place
(McConaughy)
empty
Processing note 1988 May 31: Curriculum vitae of candidates and correspondence, transcripts; some folders without dates are empty.
empty
empty
empty
empty
empty
empty
empty
missing
Victor Butterfield's reports on his interviews with those in education in the Middle East give a clear picture of the situation at that time (1952-1953). The details reflect Butterfield's values. While Butterfield was making his study, the Fund for Advancement of Education, a division of the Ford Foundation, under whose auspices he made the study, was reorganized and its field limited to the United States. Butterfield's study was then transferred to the Overseas [Activities] Division of the Ford Foundation, which was concentrating on projects to help the countries economically. They had no interest in Education - rather in agriculture and engineering. Leadership in the Ford Foundation also changed. Butterfield later mentioned his report to the new head who knew nothing of it. Nothing was ever done.
Period during which Victor Butterfield served as Acting President
1 binder
Empty, note states VLB's records are on file at the Society Office in New Haven, Divinity School Building
empty
empty
empty
lists including addresses, leave schedules, tenure, retirement
Misc. notes & correspondence
Report of Educational Policy Committee 1958. Correspondence 1973 (2)
Includes President's Annual Report, notes on educational planning
See Comments on Coeducation at Wesleyan
Correspondence, architectural consultant
Working papers
Faculty memos, articles
Correspondence, resume and reports re faculty recruitment
Misc.: Campbell's appointment as president, confidential reports on COL and ASS applicants, aptitude tests
Various reports
Reports
Herbert Blau
Proposed election procedure for advisory committee
Report & memos
SEPP report, W Parker's response
Various working papers, Etherington Committee report, Educational Planning Committee
Blau report to SEPP
Reports from Kirkpatrick, McGill, Cochrane
Comments from Blau, etc.
5 page report, no name
Report from Ed. Policy Comm. 1958, 1 letter 1973, notes
1 page handwritten notes
Articles, notes
"A College President Looks at Fraternities" article by V.L.B. in Phi Mu Delta Triangle
Includes thank-you from Eleanor Wilson McAdoo, May Day incident
Doggerel, essays on liberal education, etc.
Report to Cornell on completing term as alumni trustee
Miscellaneous statistics on class rankings; article by acting president; comments on Policy Committee report, 1940; draft letter to alumni re admissions; article on athletics; report on Middlesex School scholarships, 1935; correspondence with Pres. McConaughy re appointment
Formerly catalogued separately for Wesleyan
Includes exchange with Henry Wriston and Ernest Hocking
Includes material on 1948-49 controversy over tenure of junior faculty; offers of other presidencies; "Red Dean" controversy; 1941 problem of accepting Dennison Award
Includes article in Deerfield Alumni Journal, Wisconsin Alumnus, correspondence with Chatham College, certificate from New England Board of Higher Education, article in Harvard Vlumni Bulletin
Bound volume
Clippings, photographs
Clippings, photographs
Clippings, photographs
Personal letters to his brother and others
Personal
Allen, John C.; Baldwin, Horace S.; Blakey, William; Bonnet, Philip D.; Brengle, George S.; Buckingham, Harold; Budd, Edward; Davis, Donald; Davison, A.; Goode, M.; Gibbons, Willis; McClelland, Clarence P.
Kinsman, J. Warren; Newhall, Parker; Phillips, Harry; Houpert, Henri; Mooney, Wendell; Patricelli, Leonard; Peck, James K.; Petigrue, Winfred K.; Pullman, John; Russell, Charles A.; Ryder, Frank; Sutherland, A.E.; Upham, Francis B.; Vanderbilt, A.T.; White, Horace G.; White, William C.; Wing, Dudley
Meyer, L.B.; Petersen, Aage; Polanyi, Michael; Quine, W.V.; Rado, Tibor; Read, Herbert; Reiman, Donald; Schorske, Carl; Simmons, Ernest; Snoe, Charles P.; Snow, Lady Pamela J.; Stafford, Jean; Syme, R.; Streeten, Paul; Waddinton, C.H.; Whyte, L.; Wilson, Edmund
Small, 3-ring notebook
1 leather notebook
9, 4x6 cards
1 volume
1 volume
1 issue
1 volume
1 volume
"So Reason Can Rule"; "Students and Society"
Correspondence
Outgoing, from VLB
empty
Multiple tabs within file
Multiple tabs within file
multiple tabs within file
multiple tabs within file
not empty
Report to the Board of Trustees for 1966-1967
An address delivered at the Twenty-Eighth Annual National Conference of the Secondary Education Board
Speech delivered at the Annual meeting of the Association of American Colleges in Atlantic City, NJ
First program in "The Great Challenge" series for 1960 as broadcast over the CBS Television Network March 27, 1960
Skidmore Address
Series 1 contains course notes, notebooks and written papers regarding Carlson's classes while a student at Wesleyan University. Series 2 consists of Carlson's writings. Series 3 contains a published version of Carlson's poems and correspondence by and about Carl Carlson. Most items are undated but are from the 1937-1941 period.
These materials are non-course related.
Note: Chutney is possibly a short story and this folder contains 6 partial versions.
Note: 80 pages of handwritten poems
Note: 113 sheets of typed poems
Note: Over 90 pages of Carl Carlson poems, typed or hand-written taken from a notebook. NB-I and sequential page number on each sheet.
Note: Over 129 pages of Carl Carlson poems, typed or hand-written taken from a notebook. NB-II and sequential page number on each sheet.
Excepting two copies of court records from 1851 and 1853, the collection contains correspondence addressed to Arthur Benjamin Calef dating from 1856 to 1861. John Woodruff is the author of the bulk of the correspondence; his letters - usually marked private - chiefly relate to the political situation in Washington, D.C. and Connecticut, especially with regards to pre-Civil War tensions, campaigning, and Calef's appointment to the position of Middletown Postmaster. Other letters are also primarily politically motivated, but include requests for references from Calef or requests that he exert his influence to procure letter-writers certain positions, etc. These letter-writers include Connecticut Governor William A. Buckingham.
The majority of the letters are from John Woodruff from Washington, D.C. and New Haven, Connecticut
The majority of the letters are from John Woodruff from New Haven, Connecticut
Only one letter is addressed to Master George Brown. The bulk of the letters are from John Woodruff from Washington, D.C. and New Haven, Connecticut
The Albert Camus Papers consist of correspondence, manuscript and typescript drafts of Camus writings, photographs, and a questionnaire completed by Camus, which was sent to him by Wesleyan Professor Carl Viggiani. All materials are in French.
The four pieces of correspondence are all from Camus. One is to Wesleyan English professor Fred B. Millett, dated 1946, in which he declines an invitation. A second piece of correspondence, dated 1957, is addressed to Romance Languages and Literatures professor Carl Viggiani, and addresses questions that had been posed by Viggiani. The final two letters are to Wesleyan President Victor Butterfield, dated 1959. In the first, dated February 18, Camus declines an honor that has been offered him by Wesleyan University--possibly an honorary degree. The second letter, dated March 18, thanks Butterfield for his gift of a set of William Faulkner books.
The circa 1957 questionnaire is fourteen pages, and inquires about Camus' family, studies, experiences, opinions, and feelings, specifically for the time period 1913 to 1943. Camus has replied to all questions in pencil.
Hellenisme et Christianisme, written about Plotinus and St. Augustine, was Camus' thesis for the University of Algeria, submitted to the Faculty of Letters. A manuscript and typescript of this work can be found in this collection. A two page manuscript of aphorisms, and a piece of writing entitled Les Mines de Tipasa is present in both manuscript and typescript.
The photographs include pictures of Camus, his friends, his mentor Jean Grenier, and his work in directing Caligula and Requium. One photo features his children, Catherine and Jean. There is also a photograph of a manuscript page from The Rebel.
Manuscript by Camus of thesis on Plotinus and St. Augustine. 87 pages.
Uncorrected typescript of thesis presented to the Faculty of Letters, University of Algiers, 1936. 93 pages
Manuscript by Camus. 2 pages.
Manuscript by Camus. 4 pages.
Typescript by Camus. 2 pages.
4 different photos.
Members of the cast also in photograph.
Twin children Catherine and Jean standing next to Camus.
The collection is an assemblage of mid-nineteenth century cased portrait images, mostly daguerreotypes and an ambrotype. Most of the images are individual head and shoulder portraits. There are composite shots of Wesleyan University classes of 1849, 1850, 1852, 1853, and 1854. There are a few are full length portrait images. Typically the individuals depicted bear a Wesleyan connection. The cased images are in order of approximate date.
The items arranged individually by type and date.
Daguerreotype, 1/4 plate, 4 3/4 x 4 inch exterior
Composite. Portrait shots of 33 men shown in 1 row of 3 and 5 columns by 6 rows
Handwritten in inner side of case "Wesleyan University Middletown Conn Graduating Class of 1849"
Front case cover missing
Gift of Mrs. Robert W. Sale in 1969, great-granddaughter of John Wesley Jones, Class of 1849.
71.161
Daguerreotype, 1/2 plate, 4 3/4 x 6 inch exterior
Composite. Portrait shots of 20 men shown in 4 columns by 5 rows
Gift of from G. F. Steele, son of George McKendree Steele, Class of 1850.
71.156, 01.680.4
Daguerreotype, 1/2 plate, 4 3/4 x 6 inch exterior
Composite. Portrait shots of 20 men shown in 4 columns by 5 rows
71.162
Daguerreotype, whole plate, 7 x 9 inch exterior
Composite. Portrait shots of 24 men shown in 6 columns by 4 rows
Gift of K. P. Harrington
71.164
Daguerreotype, whole plate, 7 x 9 inch exterior
Composite. Portrait shots of 24 men shown in 6 columns by 4 rows
71.163
Daguerreotype, whole plate, 7 1/4 x 9 1/4 inch exterior
Composite. Portrait shots of 24 men shown in 6 columns by 4 rows
Case cover missing
Gift of William Griffing, accession number 2002-48
Daguerreotype, whole plate, 8 x 10 inch exterior
Case missing; matted, in glass, edges secured
Gift of Mrs. W. A. Pine, granddaughter of Franklin Hannahs, Class of 1853
Daguerreotype, whole plate, 7 x 9 inch exterior
Page laid in: Class of 1853 - Wesleyan University [list of depicted class members]
Gift of Christine M. Ayers in 1977, granddaughter of William W. Fairfield, Class of 1853
71.165
Daguerreotype, whole plate, 7 x 9 inch exterior
Composite. Portrait shots of 24 men shown in 6 columns by 4 rows
Hinge repaired
71.159
Daguerreotype, whole plate, 7 x 9 inch exterior
Front case cover detached
Gift of Sydney T. Maunder in 1967, grandson of Joseph J. Turton, Class of 1854
71.160
Daguerreotype, whole plate, 7 x 9 inch exterior
Front case cover detached
71.166
Daguerreotype, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 inch exterior
Front cover detached
Gift August, 1986
Ambrotype, tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Print of Wesleyan College annotated "Middletown College" laid in
Front cover of case partially detached
Gift of Mrs. F. Loring Wheeler
31.1
Daguerreotype, tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Image is notably faded, tarnishing at edges
71.167
Daguerreotype, tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Gift of Frank F. Starr
Daguerreotype, 1/6 plate, 3 x 3 1/2 inch exterior
Case cover detached
71.169
Daguerreotype, 1/2 plate, 6 x 4 3/4 inch exterior
Gift of Ken Appollo, Class of 1972, in 1992
92.13
Daguerreotype, tinted, 1/4 plate, 4 3/4 x 3 3/4 inch exterior
71.017
Daguerreotype, 1/6 plate, 3 1/4 x 3 3/4 inch exterior
Hinge repaired with black tape
Gift of Thos. A. Cox, 1989
89.3
The first series, Manuscripts, contains manuscripts and corrected typescripts created by John Cage and used in speeches, performances, and published articles. Most were later collected by Cage for publication in his books. In many instances, both the original text and a later version corrected for publication exist and are housed together. This series is arranged alphabetically by title. In some instances, short pieces as well as individual book titles appear within the arrangement. Therefore, when searching for a particular piece, one should look for it under both its title and the title of the book in which it may have appeared.
The collection was arranged by Cage himself before transfer to Wesleyan, and this arrangement has been retained in nearly every instance. Folder titles that appear in quotation marks are Cage’s original folder titles for each piece, in which he also included the title of the book in which it was later published, i.e. Composition (Silence). Cage also noted unpublished pieces, i.e. Listening to Music (unpublished) and this convention has been retained in the finding aid. Many pieces noted as unpublished by Cage have subsequently appeared in print, notably in John Cage, Writer: Previously Uncollected Pieces, Selected and Edited by Richard Kostelanetz. New York: Limelight Editions, 1993. Folder titles not appearing in quotation marks were either not labelled by Cage or are later additions to the manuscripts series and have been added by the archivists.
Cage often typed a short note of explanation to accompany each piece that would supply background information, such as original titles or the context of its first appearance in print or when/where it was delivered. He called these notes headnotes and they have been noted or transcribed in the finding aid, within quotation marks, where they occur. Some folder titles had been changed by Cage or crossed out; these are also noted in the finding aid.
Other items described here are Series 2, Interviews with Cage; Series 3, Fan Mail and Mail Art; and Series 4, Cage Ephemera.
This finding aid does not presently include clippings, gallery and exhibition catalogs, a collection of Cage's books and serials, posters, objects, exhibition and literary announcement postcards, and brochures from conferences and other organizations. These are also part of the Wesleyan Cage collection and will be described in additional series.
English translation of the article Dernier soiree avec Marcel Duchamp, L'Oeil 167 (November 1968), p. 18-21. Corrections not in Cage’s hand.
John Cage, writer: previously uncollected pieces, selected and introduced by Richard Kostelanetz. (New York: Limelight Editions, 1993).
The fan mail with enclosures is not currently arranged in a particular order, but some highlights are noted below.
The Center for Advanced Studies Records consists of four series: Administrative Files, Fellows, Persons Under Consideration, and Recordings. Throughout the collection, documentation from 1967 to 1969 is somewhat sparse. In some cases, the original file folders have been retained to preserve documentation on them.
The Administrative Files include annual reports, conference and seminar information, correspondence, publicity documents, photographs, and Monday Evening Papers, which were brief publications based on evening lectures given by the fellows.
The Fellows series is an alphabetical listing of some (but not all) of the fellows of the CAS. Folders typically contain correspondence, lists of accomplishments while in residence, newspaper clippings, and resumes, among other documents. The Persons Under Consideration series is an alphabetical listing of people suggested or self-nominated to the selectors. Folders in this series typically include correspondence and memoranda.
The Recordings series contains audio tape recordings and transcripts of some of the recordings. These were typically speeches or interviews given by fellows or at CAS events.
The Administrative files are arranged alphabetically.
Includes Fellows' Reports.
The collection of Monday Evening Papers is gathered in a single enclosure not housed in box 5.
Includes announcements and invitations to lectures, dinners, and concerts given by fellows of the Center for Advanced Studies.
The Fellows series is arranged alphabetically. The dates indicate the years in which the person was a fellow, but materials within the folder may be dated before or after that time.
Also a visiting fellow in January 1964.
Also Associate Director, 1963-1964, 1964-1965
The Persons Under Consideration series is arranged alphabetically. The dates indicate the years in which the person was a considered for a fellowship.
The Recordings are arranged chronologically.
Two reels. Piano pieces. As recorded--not edited.
Master and listening CDs made, May 2011.
Two tapes. Total length: approximately 1 hour, 20 minutes.
See also transcriptions in Box 24.
Side 1 only. Nature of recording not specified. On same tape as May 13 Dr. Tratliff recording.
Side 2 only. On same tape as May 13, 1968 recording.
Side 1 only. On same tape as Miller/Anderson recording.
Side 2 only. On same tape as May 14 Dr. Plutchik recording.
On same tape as Professor H. Dahl recording. Not transcribed.
On same tape as May 15 Professor Plutchik recording. Missing ten minutes.
See also transcription in Box 24.
4 copies.
This transcript appears to be partial. The recording on which it is based is not in the collection.
This collection consists of a large scrapbook and a box with file folders. The scrap book includes over 200 pages of items relating to Wesleyan’s centennial, including badges, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, menus, playbills, and more. The scrapbook is organized into categories, including sections entirely of newspaper clippings and one page with attached alumni and event worker badges, for example. The file folders contain large photographs, as well as copies of similar paper items to those contained in the scrapbook. They also contain correspondence, including telegrams and typed letters regarding the events.
Pages not listed below are blank.
The Chapel Programs Collection consists of programs from regular religious services, as well as vesper services, university services, and special dedicatory and memorial services. There are also eight bound volumes of chapel programs from various services and events dating from 1929 to 1945.
Chapel Programs are from regular Sunday morning services at the church.
See also the Bound Volumes series for materials from 1929-1945.
Chapel Special Services Programs include memorial services, dedications, commemorations (particularly in regard to war events), and commencement-related services.
See also the Bound Volumes series for materials from 1929-1945.
University Services were religious services held in conjunction with commencement ceremonies.
See also the Bound Volumes series for materials from 1929-1945.
Vesper services were weekly religious services held in the evening.
See also the Bound Volumes series for materials from 1929-1945.
These volumes have programs from various services and events pasted in chronologically.
The Sidera Chase Papers consist of three journals ranging in date from 1841 to 1849 and one C.W.L.F. Morrow & Co. Pattern Book (1857-1886). The journals mainly consist of Chase's reflections on faith. The C.W.L.F. Morrow & Co. Pattern Book contains cloth pattern clippings and notes by Chase dating from 1857 until 1871. The pattern book was also used as a scrap book and contains clipped cartoons, articles, and poetry which start from the back of the book and cover over some of the writings by Chase. These scrapbook clippings are from the 1880s, ending in 1886.
This collection contains materials documenting the life and political career of William M. Citron, and spans the dates 1918 to 1966. The bulk of the materials concern Citron's political career, and consist of clippings, correspondence, subject files, reports, speeches, and press releases. A small amount of biographical and personal materials are also contained in the collection. Finally, the collection contains three scrapbooks consisting of statements and other material entered into the Congressional Record by Citron from January 1935 to June 1936 and during the 1938 campaign as well as Connecticut newspaper clippings from 1934 to 1939.
The collection is organized into nine series: Biographical and Personal Materials, Jews and Anti-Semitism, Connecticut Valley Authority, Congressional Business, Speeches and Press Releases, Politics and Campaigns, Organization and Civic Activities, Miscellaneous, and Scrapbooks.
The collection consists of three items. Two are photographs taken of Do Gieng Ciu in graduation dress wearing a cap and gown, and holding a rolled diploma. In one photograph, the word Wesleyan can be seen written on the diploma along with Ciu’s name. The third item is a map of Kutien with a photo inset of Ciu in graduation cap and gown. The map has the following information handwritten on it: Map of Kutien, Foochow Dist., China Drawn by D. G. Ciu, Aug 13, 1921 Copy, illustrating Dr. Cius plan for the development of Kutien. Barry Scott credits the drawing to Ida Keigwin who was a friend and teacher in Ciu’s time.
Club records include its constitution and bylaws, minutes of early meetings, membership lists, and records of competitions. The newspaper clippings in this collection document Wesleyan-related rowing events as well as rowing competitions in the eastern United States and England. The two general rowing scrapbooks were collected by John E. Eustis '1874 in the years following his graduation from Wesleyan. Eustis was a captain of the 1874 club and, after leaving Wesleyan, became a captain and leader of New York's Atalanta Boat Club and a referee of collegiate regattas.
Also included in this collection are a hand-drawn map of the Saratoga Regatta course (1875), and programs of Wesleyan Regattas (1881-1882).
Includes constitution and bylaws, membership lists, minutes (1871), record of competitions and results (1871), and clippings from CT, MA, and NY newspapers (1871-1874).
Scrapbook containing newspaper clippings pasted atop an earlier, unrelated account book. The Account book is organized in calendar format with records of accounts due and outstanding bills of individuals. Includes newspaper clippings of regattas and rowing contests in the United States and England (1874-1877) and programs to Wesleyan's Fall Regatta (October 29, 1881) and Spring Regatta (May 20, 1882).
Consists of loose newspaper clippings of rowing events (1874-1876) and blank ledger book, lacking approximately half its pages (2 folders).
The Class Day Programs include programs for every year between 1864 and 1940 except 1881 (includes invitations but no programs), 1886, 1891, 1918, 1927, 1930, 1931, 1933, and 1936-1939. Multiple copies and other items (like invitations) are noted in the finding aid. The style of the programs and their typography change radically over the years, indicating stylistic trends. Of particular interest are the dual programs in 1906, 1907, and 1909 for men and women. In other years, evidence of women's participation during Class Day is scant.
Chronological.
3 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
3 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies, plus 2 invitations.
3 copies, plus 2 additional programs.
5 copies.
2 copies.
3 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies, plus 1 invitation.
1 copy, plus 1 invitation.
1 copy.
1 copy, plus 1 invitation.
2 copies, plus 2 invitations.
2 invitations, no programs
2 copies.
3 copies.
2 copies, plus 1 invitation.
2 copies, plus 2 invitations.
2 copies plus 5 invitations.
2 copies.
1 copy.
1 copy.
1 copy.
1 copy.
1 copy.
1 copy.
1 copy.
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
2 copies
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy of men's program, 1 copy of women's program
1 copy of men's program, 1 copy of women's program, plus 1 invitation
2 copies
2 copies of men's program, 1 copy of women's program
1 copy
2 copies
1 copy
2 copies
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
2 copies
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
2 copies
1 copy
1 copy
3 copies
1 copy
1 copy
1 copy
The Class Reunion Books typically contain letters or information from alumni with news of their families, careers, and other updates. They also contain reminiscences of Wesleyan. Later books frequently include photographs.
Materials are arranged chronologically by year of graduation.
The Laban Clark Papers contain correspondence, sermons, lectures, and journals by Laban Clark, as well as papers about his life's history, the founding of Wesleyan University, and his finances.
1 volume. Includes receipt for Laban Clark from Joseph W. Barlow, Brooklyn, 1833.
Account book, containing six pages of records of receipts over the period from June 15, 1850 to May 1851.
Regarding the selection of Middletown, Connecticut for Wesleyan University; the endowment; the Board of Trustees and Visitors, etc.
Written at the time of Fisk's death. Both original and typewritten copies.
Regarding the gift of a portrait of Rev. Laban Clark to the Institution.
A collection of sixteen autograph lectures, with earlier version of lectures 1 and 2. The lectures were first given in 1833-1834 when Clark was in the New York East Circuit. He had formed a Bible class of about 10 who had applied for a license to preach. In the fall of 1852, at the request of President Smith, Clark revised and enlarged the lectures and delivered them to the students at the Wesleyan University chapel on Sunday mornings over a period of two years, circa 1852-1854. The design of these lectures is to assist the young students in theology by giving a condensed view of the most important doctrines of Christianity with the duty and qualifications of a Christian minister.
Composed of 25 unbound signatures (sections).
1 volume.
2 drafts, and printed as Ministerial Toil Rewarded, 1850.
Published as A Semi-Centennial Sermon, 1851.
Appeal for money for the new university.
Photocopy. Informing him of election to the presidency of Wesleyan University.
Recommends John W. Beach for admission.
9 letters.
Possible appointment of Drake to the Wesleyan faculty; suggestions for the establishment of Wesleyan University.
The Commencement Orations Collection contains handwritten speeches written by graduating Wesleyan University students between the years of 1833 and 1855.
Arranged chronologically by year, and within each year by last name of student.
This collection contains documents that are related to or from the group COPUS either nationally or on the Wesleyan campus. The first folder contains information on the group, including statistics and information on Wesleyan's financial aid policies. The second folder contains more in-depth documents on COPUS involvement on the Wesleyan campus. COPUS collected information on professor course loads, teacher evaluations, memos to the board of trustees, and correspondence between Wesleyan faculty and the President of the University. The third folder contains mainly information on COPUS's involvement in Washington, D.C. and lobbying for change in the 1980s budget cuts. The folder includes letters written to various state representatives as well as various press on the group and nation-wide newsletters. The collection includes documents such as notes and flyers from seminars held by COPUS on campus as well as Wesleyan and Middletown-area press on the group's activities.
Documents pertain to Aid-Blind Admissions Policy and include statistics, correspondence and official reports. Faculty compensation studies, tenure and teacher load studies are also included. All material from 1970s to early 1980s.
The collection has four series: Minutes, Chronological Files, Addition of June 2008, and Addition of December 2009. The Chronological Files include meeting notes, speeches, reply cards, bills, invitations, attendance lists, and other materials documenting club meetings. The Addition of June 2008 (Acc. 2008-10) includes program announcements, including members names and topics of discussion, from 1870 to 1963. It also includes some papers read at meetings, correspondence, meeting programs, financial information, and photographs. The materials have been arranged in roughly chronological order. The Addition of December 2009 (Acc. 2009-50) includes minutes and abstracts of meetings from January 2003 to May 2006.
The materials in this series have been arranged roughly chronologically.
These were sent to members prior to each meeting. They list current members and the host, topic, and speaker for the upcoming meeting.
The Coeducation Collection includes notes, letters, records, clippings, photographs, and meeting transcripts from Wesleyan University's first phase of coeducation (1872-1909).
The entire collection has been digitized and individual documents and photographs may be accessed by clicking on the "View" links in Detailed Description of the Collection below. The digitized files may also be accessed by clicking this link: Wesleyan University: Coeducation at Wesleyan, 1867-1912 collection in Shared Shelf Commons.
To view a digitized copy, click on the "View" link. The digitized files may also be accessed by clicking on this link: Wesleyan University: Coeducation at Wesleyan, 1867-1912 collection in Shared Shelf Commons.
View PDF.
View scrapbook originals (PDF).
View photocopies of originals (PDF).
View JPG.
View front of photograph (JPG).
View back of photograph (PDF).
View front of photo (JPG).
View back of photo (PDF).
Includes programs from the Connecticut Regatta, 1981-1986, and approximately forty 3 x 5 inch photographs and two 8 x 10 inch photographs.
The Cuvierian Records consist of a single volume, which includes constitutions, by-laws, lists of members, and meeting minutes.
This collection is primarily comprised of Joseph Cummings' annual reports on Wesleyan University for the years 1857-1874, excepting the 1866-1867 school year. These reports contain censuses of Wesleyan's student body, including lists of students that have died or taken seriously ill during the school year. They also include Cummings' recommendation that women be admitted into Wesleyan and his suggestions for allocation of funds, most prominently with regards to building and maintaining a library. The collection also contains Cummings' correspondence, including with Julia Olin and W.O. Atwater (primarily regarding securing Atwater's employment), as well as Cummings' official acceptance of the position as president at Wesleyan University. Also included are several articles by Cummings, a petition against his resignation from the professorship, and his wife D.S. Cummings' correspondence.
William Dwight Franklin and the Continental Vocalists Collection contains published and unpublished books of music and lyrics. It also contains financial information about the Continental Vocalists' tours, and programs, a scrapbook, and two photographs.
Account of money received in connection with Continental Vocalists, commencing Sept. 1953. Members of the Company C.W. Huntington, New London, Conn, W.D. Franklin, Norwich, Conn, W.R. Frisbie, Branford, Conn, J.W. Smith, South Glastenbury, Conn, J.A. Sterry, Agt., Norwich, Conn. The Continental Vocalists' first trip commenced September 1853. It included 173 performances and took in $5,503.00. This financial journal lists all debits and credits from 1853 through 1867 for the Continental Vocalists as well as W.D. Franklin's expenses.
The second trip featured 177 shows and took in $6,841.00 with the same members of the company. It commenced Sept. 4, 1855. Second trip ending May 29th of '55. At Jamestown Frisbie taken bleeding at the lungs. Started immediately for home where he died July 9 of '55.
Members of the Continental Vocalists for the first two trips included: C.W. Huntington, New London, Conn.; W.D. Franklin, Norwich, Conn.; W.R. Frisbie, Branford, Conn.; J.W. Smith, South Glastenbury, Conn.; and J.A. Sterry, Agt., Norwich, Conn.
Third trip of the Continental Vocalists commenced at Rocky Hill, Conn. on August 24, 1855. Members of company included: C.W. Huntington, New London, Conn.; W.D. Franklin, Norwich, Conn.; T.M. Watson, Holyoke, Mass.; J.W. Smith, South Glastonbury, Conn.; and J.A. Sterry, Agt., Norwich, Conn.
Fourth trip of Continental Vocalists commenced at North Glastonbury, Conn. in April of 1856. Members of company included: W.D. Franklin, T.M. Watson, W.B. Hall, J.W. Smith, and W.B. Thompson, Agt.
Fifth trip of Continental Vocalists commenced at South Glastobury, Conn., August 24, 1856. Members of company included: W.D. Franklin, T.M. Watson, W.B. Hall, J.W. Smith, Master William Lewis, violinist and W.B. Thompson Agt.
Sixth trip of Continental Vocalists commenced at North Glastonbury, Conn. It included company members W.D. Franklin, T.M. Watson, W.B. Hall, J.W. Smith, W. Lewis, and W.B. Thompson Agt.
Seventh trip commenced at Elmira, N.Y. in 1857. Members included W.D. Franklin, W.B. Hall, J.W. Smith, B.M. Watson, Master Lewis, and W.M. Bates Agt.
Eighth trip was a spring and summer tour that commenced May 3, 1858.
Ninth trip commenced Sept. 9, 1858. This was followed by a short winter trip.
Later trips included a western trip commencing at New Britain, Conn., on May 2, 1860, and a trip with Panorama that commenced in 1861. The Continental Vocalists continued to perform and bring in receipts through 1864.
In March 1865, the Continental Vocalists reorganized and members included: W.D. Franklin - 1st Tenor; J.W. Smith - 2nd Tenor; H.M. Rogers - Alto; and A.W. Woodward - Bass.
Additional entries for debits and credits are included for trips through 1867.
This book is a combination of journal and scrapbook. It includes original writings as well as entry passes, tickets, articles, songs, programs, drawings and announcements regarding Continental Vocalists or their members. It is unfortunate that this scrapbook's pasted-in material has been glued over original writings. An advertisement lists Mr. W.D. Franklin as instructor of Musical Instruction and Cultivation of the Voice.
Inside cover reads Done at Madison, Wisconsin, Nov. 21st /58 'Continental Vocalists' Scrap Book Company Members: W.D. Franklin, J.W. Smith, T.M. Watson, W.A. Lewis, W.M. Bates Agt. This scrapbook contains articles, letters, advertisements, concert passes, tickets, and announcements. The items in this scrapbook are from 1857 and 1858 and includes publications from places they performed during that time such as the Hartford Courant.
Contents include:
Photograph of Continental Vocalists with Watson, Lewis, Franklin, and Smith.
Negative and photograph of Smith, Franklin, Rogers, and Watson.
W.D. Franklin business card.
Continental Vocalists Programme.
Gospel and educational temperance contribution card.
Our Thematic Catalogue of the Latest Music Vocal and Instrumental, Denton, Cottier and Daniels, Buffalo, N.Y.
1873: The Stage Mirror, Lancaster, PA newspaper
1874 invitation: Fall and Winter Opening, Mrs. W.D. Franklin Millinery
1876 programme: Centennial Concert at Ye Methodist Meeting House
1877 announcement card: Mrs. W.D. Franklin's Millinery Opening on 54 Broad St., Middletown
1878 programme: Eleventh Convention of the Connecticut Sunday School Teachers' Association in the South Congregational Church, Middletown, Conn.
1881 advertisement: New England Prohibition Pic-Nic
March 1892: note regarding Mr. and Mrs. Franklin from H.E. Parker, Pastor M.E. Church
This series contains a collection of books with lyrics and music of songs performed by the Continental Vocalists. Most of the music books in this box appear to have belonged to William Dwight Franklin. The Old Folks Music Book and the Glee Book are printed; the other lyrics and music are handwritten into music notebooks.
Includes an unbound 1860 edition and a bound 1874 edition. The unbound version belonged to W.D. Franklin.
Title page reads, Father Kemp's Old Folks Concert Music. A Collection of the Most Favorite Tunes of Billings, Swan, Holden, Read, Kimball, Ingalls and Others. To which is added a variety of Anthems and Choruses, and Divers Patriotic and Other Songs of the Greatest and Best Composers.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by O. Ditson & Co., in the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
This hardcover book contains the lyrics and music to the Continental Vocalists songs. Members include Charles W. Huntington of New London, CT, William D. Franklin of Norwich, CT, William R. Frisbie of Branford, CT and J. Wesley Smith of South Glastenbury, CT.
Title page: The Continental Vocalists' Glee Book, Comprising the Songs, Quartetts, Etc. of the Famous Continental Vocalists, and Rendered so Popular by them Throughout the Country by their Unique and Inimitable Performances. Also a biography of each member of the Troupe, written by their business conductor, John A. Sterry, Esq. The whole arranged, harmonized and partly composed by themselves.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by J.E. Gould, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Inside cover includes a handwritten Magnolia Song and a note: Please Return to W.D. Franklin, South Glastenbury, Conn.
Cover missing. The writing in this notebook may not belong to W.D. Franklin.
Notebook of words and music.
Inside back cover reads: W.P. Robinson, Local Ed. Of Daily Adv. Auburn, N.Y.
First page seems to be missing.
Music notebook contains lyrics, music or brief instrumental arrangements on songs.
Notebook of handwritten lyrics and music.
First page reads: Collection of Songs Sung By W.D. Franklin of Middletown, Conn. 1878 & 9.
This notebook contains the lyrics to songs sung by W.D. Franklin but not the music.
This book contains handwritten lyrics and music to a collection of W.D. Franklin songs. First page reads: Franklin's Group of Songs. Containing Five Successful Concert Numbers. First Number - 'The Voyage of Life' song, Second Number - 'The Mountain Bugle Echo Song' ballad, Third Number - 'The Old Corporal of Descriptive Patriotic' ballad, Fourth Number - 'Twilight Dreaming' quartette or song, Fifth Number - 'Good Night' a beautiful closing song. By W.D. Franklin - Organizer of the Old Continental Vocalists (Huntington, Frisbie, Franklin, Smith)
Middletown School Festival Music, 7 copies
Harvest of Flowers 'Blumenlese' Containing a Choice Collection of Popular Melodies, Together With Selections from the Operas. Arranged in: An Easy and Instructive Manner by Jul. Weiss
Jennie A. Franklin on cover.
Materials from Daltry's career teaching music at Wesleyan, and recordings of Simsbury Light Opera Company Performances from 1948-1950.
The William B. Davis Papers consist mostly sheet music hand-written by William Butler Davis, Wesleyan class of 1894 and composer of the Wesleyan alma mater, Come Raise the Song. Davis composed what he referred to as a light opera called The Girl and the Graduate. The piano, vocal, and orchestral sheet music is included in this collection, as well as some other pieces Davis composed. He was a member of the Glee Club while at Wesleyan and he kept a scrapbook of Glee Club programs and news clippings that mentioned himself or the Glee Club from 1892 to 1895.
Small book.
2 copies.
3 copies.
2 copies.
2 sets.
The Emilio Q. Daddario Congressional Papers cover his six terms in the United States House of Representatives as a Member of Congress from the First District, State of Connecticut. These include papers from his Congressional office as well as documents pertaining to the work of his Subcommittee on Science, Research and Development. See individual series for more detail about the contents of the collection.
The Emilio Q. Daddario Congressional Papers are a collection within the Collection on Legal Change, a project directed by Clement E. Vose, Andrus Professor of Government at Wesleyan University.
The Reader File series contains all outgoing correspondence from the Congressman's Washington office. One carbon copy of each letter is included. These are fastened in manilla folders in chronological order and are continuous from January 3, 1961 to December 31, 1970. Incoming correspondence and some related replies, duplicated in the reader file, are scattered through other series.
Handwritten and typewritten drafts, mimeographed and some printed copies of speeches, statements, articles, and press releases. These are arranged chronologically. Articles by other persons also included.
About 100 telecasts to his Connecticut constituents from WTIC-TV Hartford, WHNB-TV New Britain, and WNHC-TV New Haven. These are entitled Your Congressman from Connecticut. These are dated but not marked as to subject.
Special items include film of Daddario with President Johnson (about 2 minutes); a V.I.P. Tour in South Vietnam with shots of Daddario and other congressmen dated November 20, 1965 from the Army Pictorial Center.
Ten audio tape recordings include Congressional reports, a Daddario address on patents to the Chamber of Commerce, May 21, 1961; his address delivered to the Interparliamentary Union Conference in Tehran, Iran, October 1, 1966 (broadcast over Voice of America); and his Trumbull Lecture, The Crucial Half-Century for Science and Society, to the Yale Science and Society Forum, Yale University, November 17, 1969.
Papers pertaining to Daddario's campaigns for re-election to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1960, 1962, 1964, 1966, and 1968 and his campaign for Governor of Connecticut in 1970. As these materials come solely from the Congressman's Washington office, this is not the kind of full file that developed in his headquarters in the state.
Communications pertaining to matters as varied as the plight of the New Haven Railroad and individual social security and immigration claims. The topics are enormously varied and correspondence illustrates how Daddario dealt with the very complex as well as some quite humble demands. The correspondents are chiefly from his own district and the topics mostly confined to Connecticut.
2 folders of correspondence.
Includes report to delegates, 1965.
Bills introduced by Daddario and other bills, hearings, committee reports and floor action on legislation in the 86th, 87th, 88th, 89th, 90th, and 91st Congresses. Correspondence about legislation is filled with printed material. The organization of this file is both by subject and by chronology, not consistently one or the other.
2 folders.
S.S.T., 1969-1970
Muskie letter.
Varied materials about the two most important committees Daddario served on. One was Science, Research and Development and the other was Patents.
2 folders.
2 folders.
Includes speech by John Gardner, articles and paper by C. A. Doxiadis.
Oversize: see Box 42
Includes Patent Waiver Regulations.
Oversize -- see Box 42.
Index in Volume 1.
Two folders.
Oversize: see box 42.
Oversize: see box 42.
No folder.
Oversize: see Box 42.
Oversize: see Box 42.
Two copies.
Oversize: see box 42.
Oversize: see box 42. Six books.
Oversize: see box 42.
2 folders.
First set indexed. Second set includes Air Force and Space Digest, Astronautics and Aeronautics, CSIR News, three CSIR pamphlets, Journal and Register, Journal of Scientific and Industrial Research, Science and Technology, and Strategic Industries Bulletin.
From Box 33.
From Box 35.
From Box 39.
From Box 39.
From Box 39.
From Box 39.
From Box 41.
From Box 41. Six books.
From Box 41.
Filed chronologically by month.
Many months are missing.
Includes two letters from Lyndon Johnson.
Includes European trip, 1962, and Vietnam trip, 1965.
Science News, February 21, July 25, and November 7, 1970; Science, June 24, 1966, December 13, 1968, and November 6, 1970; and Scientific American, January 1970.
Three booklets.
Five books.
Nine books, for all years except 1967 and 1968.
This collection includes catalogs to Davison Art Center exhibitions and a collection of exhibition announcements in the form of cards, postcards, and brochures.
Arrangement is chronological by date of exhibition.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
Includes both Wesleyan catalog (2 copies) and travelling exhibition catalogs.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
2 copies.
Almost the entire collection is in German, except for two documents.
The collection contains two secretary's books, covering the years 1909-1920 and 1946-1955, with the minutes and protocols from the meetings, the group's constitution, and various mementos from the given dates. Photos and invitations to the group's theater performance in 1910 are also included. The folder with miscellaneous documents from 1931 to 1938 contains a program for another play put on in 1930, and an invitation to the Christmas party in 1938. Of particular interest is a short story dated 1934 by T.M. Campbell about an American who wakes in the forest to stumble upon the cottage of Goethe, and has a somewhat mystical encounter with him where the famous writer reveals some of his writing genius.
Finally, there are two folders dedicated to the Golden Anniversary of the club in 1960. One folder contains the speeches of L.E. Gemeinhardt and Sten Flygt given in English, and almost 80 telegrams and letters from former members on the occasion in both German and English. The guest book from the occasion is also included.
The materials are arranged chronologically.
Includes all minutes from the meetings during this period, lists of officers and members, protocols, and versions of the group constitution from 1909, 1913, and 1920, respectively.
This event was held in Fayerweather Gymnasium on June 8, 1910 for productions of Wie es dich gefaellt (As You Like It) by William Shakespeare and Die Hochzeitsreise (The Honeymoon) by Roderich Benedix.
About an American who wakes in the forest to stumble upon the cottage of Goethe, and has a somewhat mystical encounter with him where the famous writer reveals some of his writing genius.
Includes minutes and protocols from all the meetings, lists of members and officers, club rules, and poetry by Wesleyan professor of German L. E. Gemeinhardt
This collection contains records from the Phi Rho literary society, also known as the Delta Tau Delta fraternity from 1903 to 1954. The collection includes minutes from annual meetings, budget and financial reports, newsletters, and architectural plans from the first half of the 20th century. The collection includes five bound volumes, three of which are contained within the first box and the remainder of the materials are organized by their content.
Annual and special meeting notes, amendments to the constitution.
Contains minutes of all meetings of the Society and the Board of Trustees from June 1922 to June 1925
Reports, bills, detail costs, changes, and authorizations to contractors for the Hubbard House, 269 High St.
Annual reports of academic departments and interdisciplinary academic programs of Wesleyan University and other academic divisions of the university that are supervised by the Office of Academic Affairs (e.g. the libraries or the Wesleyan University Press). Included in reports are annual discussions of curriculum, class size, staffing, faculty activities, department-sponsored events, milestones, and long-range planning concerns.
Arranged alphabetically by department or program and then chronologically.
See also Art and Art History.
Includes Program in Teacher Preparation proposal.
Includes major creation proposal.
At the front of folder 5 are six undated reports.
At the front of the folder are five undated reports.
The report is for the program in Paris.
The report is for the program in Paris.
The collection consists of over 800 surveys received from individual women graduates as well as computer printouts of data gained from these surveys.
Most of the surveys are labeled with a number on the upper right-hand side. Surveys 1-821 are labeled, with the possible exception of numbers 15, 65, 185, 441, 459, 509, and 591, which are missing. 23 surveys are unlabeled, or perhaps have lost their labels over time. The surveys are stored in order of numbered label, with the unlabeled surveys stored in a separate folder.
Delegard sent the surveys to approximately 2,000 graduates from the classes of 1970-79, 1984, and 1990. The surveys ask a series of biographical questions such as year of graduation at Wesleyan, parents' education level and occupation, and personal marital status. The surveys also ask a variety of questions about the graduates' decision to attend Wesleyan and their experiences while at Wesleyan, particularly with gender, sexism, and feminism. Though many of the women wrote in brief answers, others provided lengthy responses. Delegard quoted extensively from the written answers and used the multiple choice or short answers for substantial statistical analysis.
Included in the collection are the computer printouts from Delegard's statistical analysis of the surveys. Comprising three boxes, the printouts show the extent of Delegard's data exploration of the surveys she received, and provide an excellent example of early 1990s computer processing and research techniques.
The Dean of the College Records are alphabetically arranged general subject files created by the office of the Dean of the College. There are two series of records, the first of which primarily relates to Edgar Beckam's term, and the second relates to Allen Green's term; however, there is much overlap between the two. The third series contains restricted records.
Series 1 contains material on a wide variety of issues related to the student body, including admissions, curricula, substance abuse, budgets, health, and institutional research. It also documents the 1985 visit of Louis Farrakhan.
Series 2 includes extensive documentation of The Great Hollow Wilderness School (1988-1995), Institutional Research projects (1973-1991), Organizations, the Consortium on Financing Higher Education (COFHE), university facilities planning, and the Presidential Search Committee (1994-1995).
The arrangement is primarily alphabetical, with some inconsistencies.
The diary of Reverend Holden Dwight was written from August 18, 1837 to November 18, 1843. The diary begins as Dwight professes his excitement about returning home after working in Georgia for nearly two years. From Columbus, Georgia, Dwight traveled to Augusta, Georgia by stagecoach, then by railroad to Charleston, South Carolina, then to New York City by steamer. On his way back to his hometown of Southbridge, Massachusetts, Dwight stopped by his alma mater, Wesleyan University, whereupon he met with Mr. Charles Ser, an old acquaintance. After a brief conversation, Dwight then continued to Hartford, Connecticut where he stayed the night. In the morning, he took a stage to his hometown and arrived in Southbridge during the afternoon. At once he noticed the changes the local temperance movement had made upon his town, for now many of the taverns had been shut down. Once arriving home his family and friends greeted him with joy.
After the excitement of his arrival settled down, his family and friends began to question him on his stance of slavery. Dwight responded to his critics, . . . the efforts of the abolitionists themselves tended to prejudice the south in favor of slavery and to perpetuate the evil which they willed to be abolished . . . Though the abolitionists tried to persuade him, Dwight held to his beliefs in slavery, despite their constant criticisms. In the end, Dwight predicted that this question could potentially dissolve the Union.
Dwight spent the next few weeks at home with his family until they decided to travel to the examinations of Wilbraham Academy, his former school. Here Dwight watched his sister's examination, and listened to a few more arguments on the abolitionist movement. After the examinations, Dwight traveled back to Wesleyan University to watch the commencement of that year's class. He found the University to be unchanged from his days as a student, though he remarked that a house was being built for the president of the university. While at Wesleyan, Dwight attended an oration by his Honor George Banonoft sponsored by the Philorhetorian and the Peithologian Societies of Wesleyan, which he found to be exquisite. Dwight also remarked on the great donations Dr. Willbur Fisk was able to obtain while traveling in Europe, including bibles and testaments in many different languages, which he donated to the Missionary Lyceum, a student group. Dwight complimented Reverend Rice's excellent sermon delivered to the Youth's Missionary Society of Middletown. After a long day of excitement, Dwight returned home to Southbridge.
Dwight's next entry was dedicated to his resentment of corporations and the government's stronghold on the economy. He seemed to dislike any form of government involvement with the economy and even went as far as to write a letter to the legislative councils of the nation. After a month of staying with his family, Dwight decided to return once more to Georgia. While traveling toward Georgia, Dwight remarked on how railroads were changing the nation into a better a place and how their might would benefit the New England area. Dwight also stopped off in Philadelphia to visit a school for the deaf and dumb, but they were out of session. On his train ride from Philadelphia to Washington D.C., Dwight was fortunate to see some of the most prominent men of his time including John Quincy Adams, whose personal appearance disappointed Dwight. After arriving in Washington, Dwight attended the extra sessions of Congress where he got to see many prominent senators such as Daniel Webster (Massachusetts), Henry Clay (Kentucky), William Campbell Preston (South Carolina), Thomas Hart Benton (Missouri), John Caldwell Calhoun (South Carolina), and Silas Wright, Jr. (New York).
After two weeks of travel, Dwight arrived back in Georgia where he opened a school in Columbus. The next few entries detail some interesting conversations Dwight had including one with a certain Dr. Gibson on the recent phenomenon of animal magnetism. Unfortunately on December 22nd, Dwight was forced to close his school in Columbus because, according to Dwight, there was no literacy in that city. On January 8, 1838 Dwight traveled to New Orleans, Louisiana where he was frightened to find people working on the Sabbath. Despite his initial fears, Dwight decided to open another school, on January 11, 1838, with the help of Mr. Hamilton of the local Methodist Church. During this time, Dwight decided to learn French from Professor Laurent because he hoped this will help him spread the word of God. On May 29, 1838, Dwight was again forced to close his school, but the local Methodist elder appointed him as a missionary for New Orleans' third municipality. During this time, Dwight was able to open a Sunday school and spread the word of the Methodist Church among the many Catholics in the area.
On July 29, 1838 Dwight accepted an invitation from Judge McGehee to tutor his children in Woodville, Mississippi. After two months, however, Dwight left the judge's home in order to teach at the Preparatory Department in the College of Louisiana. The following entries feature interesting conversations or sermons Dwight has heard and his comments on them. Dwight most notably discusses Professor's Woolbridge's sermons about the afterlife, and contemplates his own soul because of the sermons. On November 16, 1840 Dwight notes that the reason he hasn't written in so long is because he was . . . reduced near the grave with sickness. However, Dwight assures the reader that this has only deepened his faith in God and his commitment to his word. On November 13, 1840, Dwight writes that he has been blessed with a son despite the fact that Dwight had yet to mention his wife in the diary What follows next in the diary is Dwight's comments on a series of essays in the Methodist Quarterly Review, such as, The Rich Against the Poor, Intelligence of Angels, and The Oxford Tract.
It is at this point that Dwight does not write in his journal for almost a full year. His next entry apologizes for his lack of punctuality in keeping the journal and continues with a full synopsis of his past few years. Dwight finally mentions his marriage to Almena Marietta Pelton on June 13, 1839. The two met at Wilbraham Academy, and then later fell in love while Dwight was working at the College of Louisiana. When Dwight decided to leave the college, he then opened up his own academy in Clinton, Mississippi. However, Dwight and his wife's attempts to run the school was in vain for a few months after opening the academy, both were stricken with illness. With no one left to run the school, the academy inevitably failed leaving Dwight unemployed yet again.
On May 12, 1841, Dwight and his family left Clinton in search of new employment in the north. After traveling around the Pittsburg, Pennsylvania region, Dwight eventually found a position in the Department of Natural Science in the Norwalk Seminary in Ohio. On January 16, 1842 Dwight again became seriously ill with an ear infection and a severe headache to the point where they fetched a doctor. Dr. Baker then treated his symptoms by bleeding him profusely, putting a roasted onion on his ear, and then giving him 0.5 grams of morphine. After a few months Dwight recovered once more and was also reassigned to the Latin and Greek Department of Norwalk Seminary. During the seminary's summer break, Dwight convinced his sister to come work at in the female department of the seminary, but also debated whether his salary was sufficient to provide for his family. Dwight ends his diary with doubt in his faith because compared to his idol, Dr. Fisk, Dwight's commitment seems weak. He also touchingly describes the death of his infant son, Wilbur Fisk.
This collection contains two series representing donations by two EQV members. The first series is composed of original materials such as account books, tax forms, correspondence and newsletters. Much of this series is from 1967. This series also contains group photographs of members for the years 1960, 1966, and 1967. Series II is composed of secondary sources including a history of the fraternity, biographies of some members, and a directory. Appendices to the history have photocopies of original documents that are represented in Series I.
The Mark Estren Papers includes materials from 1961 to 1968 and includes program guides which were printed every two weeks (excepting school breaks) and news clippings, and press releases.
This collection comprises some 800 examinations given at Wesleyan from 1868 to 1970. Of these, close to 300 are from the nineteenth century. The 1960s are relatively poorly represented, with only 38 items. About 480 examinations are printed, 44 are manuscript and the remainder are either typed or mimeographed. Examinations dated after 1930 are almost exclusively comprehensive examinations, while earlier examinations include entrance examinations, mid-term and final examinations, and competitive examinations for named prizes awarded for academic excellence.
The present collection is drawn from several sources. A large number of the nineteenth century examinations are contained in a scrapbook presented by the Eclectic fraternity. Most comprehensive examinations from the late 1920s through the late 1950s were catalogued by department for the Wesleyan University Archives. With the exception of those contained in seven bound volumes, these comprehensive examinations have been boxed together by department. The following list integrates holdings found in two archival boxes, seven bound volumes, and the Eclectic scrapbook.
Materials are arranged alphabetically by department. It is noted whether materials are found in the boxes, the volumes, or the scrapbook.
34 total exams.
90 total exams.
Latin I: 24
Latin II: 21
Latin III: 15
Latin IV: 11
Latin V: 7
Advanced levels (VI-XII): 14
47 total exams, of which 15 are dated. Some are called Sophomore Examination or Junior Examination.
77 total exams, of which 3 are dated.
16 total exams, of which 12 are dated.
9 total exams, of which 6 are dated.
2 total exams.
Includes A List of Books Recommended for Freshman Reading, and Courses of Collateral Reading for the Junior Class in English Literature (2 versions)
All years except 1901, 1903, and 1911.
26 exams total.
17 exams total.
The materials in the Financial Planning Committee Records date from 1972 to 1975, and include evaluations of departmental or program proposals, faculty compensation concerns, and student expense issues. The main item of business for the FPC during this period was Wesleyan's growing deficit, and recommendations to address budgetary concerns.
The collection, which is arranged by press name or printer’s name, comprises ephemeral items produced by each press. The bulk are letterpress book prospectuses, but also include press catalogs and other advertising. Secondary material here refers to subject or clipping files taken from local and national publications about the press or printer, and are housed in a separate folder from the press ephemera itself.
Alphabetical.
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See Box 2
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Materials
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Gehenna Press.
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera, Events
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Catalogues
Advertising, Catalogues
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera, Events
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Materials, Printed Ephemera, Events
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Printed Ephemera
Secondary Materials
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Events
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Materials
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Prospectuses
Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Catalogues
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Secondary Material
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events
See also: Baskin, Leonard
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Events
See Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
See Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Catalogues
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Materials
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
See Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Secondary Material
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Oversize, Box 16
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Prospectuses
See Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Printed Ephemera
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses
Events
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogs, Prospectuses
Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Oversize, Box 17
See Oversize, Box 17
Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Prospectuses
See Oversize, Box 17
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events
Secondary Material
Advertising, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Secondary Materials
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Printed Ephemera, Events
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Events
Secondary Materials
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Catalogues
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Catalogues
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Events
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Secondary Material
Events
Secondary Material, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera, Events
Printed Ephemera
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Catalogues
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Catalogues
Catalogues
Ephemera
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Events
Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Secondary Material
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Events
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising
Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Events
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material, Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses, Secondary Material
See also: Oversize, Box 17
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Materials
Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Secondary Material
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Printed Ephemera
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
Advertising, Catalogues, Prospectuses
The Willbur Fisk Papers consist of two large series. The first, Correspondence, is arranged into two groups: letters to Willbur Fisk, and letters from Willbur Fisk. Both groups are arranged alphabetically. There are links in the finding aid to complete inventories of the letters. The letters from Willbur Fisk have both alphabetical and chronological inventories, although the letters are physically arranged in alphabetical order.
The second series, Papers, are items written or collected by Willbur Fisk and his wife Ruth Peck Fisk. These include number of papers related to Wesleyan University and its founding, such as correspondence and other materials about faculty and students, scientific equipment for the university, and financial issues. Many of Fisk's own writings can also be found in this series, on topics ranging from abolitionism to Methodist issues. A number of Fisk's early schoolwork, featuring reports and poems, is listed under Compositions. Addresses and sermons written and delivered by Fisk can also be found in the Papers series.
A subset of the Papers are items written by or belonging to Ruth Peck Fisk. These primarily consist of writings about her husband, and letters to Mrs. Fisk after her husband's death. There are also a few printed items belonging to Mrs. Fisk in this series.
For a complete alphabetical list of correspondents to Willbur Fisk, including date ranges and numbers of letters, visit http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/fi1000-91a.xml
For a complete alphabetical list of the recipients of letters from Willbur Fisk, including date ranges and numbers of letters, visit http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/fi1000-91b.xml. For a complete chronological list of the letters from Willbur Fisk, visit http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/fi1000-91c.xml.
Parentage, early life, story of his salvation.
The committee mentions offers from Bridgeport, Wilbraham, and Middletown, and recommends Middletown for the site of the new institution to be established and the report also outlines plans for the financing and administration of the college. Letter to Dear Brother (Laban Clark?) appended at end, signed W. Fisk. All in the handwriting of Willbur Fisk.
Professor John Mott Smith died in December 1832.
Proposals of substitute arrangements for the present in place of appointment of a special resident agent.
Papers in the handwriting of Willbur Fisk having to do with nominations to the professorship of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy: Nathan Bangs, Joseph Holdich, Henry B. Bascom.
Signed by A. W. Smith (and in his handwriting), D. D. Whedon, and J. F. Huber, concerning the responsibility and authority of the Faculty in nominating candidates for appointment to the Faculty.
Requests Mr. Delano to arrange passage on the ship Roscoe for President and Mrs. Fisk, on favorable terms. Handwritten. The Fisks later sailed on the Roscoe, September 1835, bound for Liverpool.
Concerns W. Fisk's passport. Copy.
Contains some vital statistics about W. Fisk.
Signed by W. Fisk, J. L. Smith, and H. Bangs.
Handwriting of W. Fisk.
Handwriting of W. Fisk.
Handwriting of W. Fisk.
With charges for rent, this in handwriting of J. F. Huber.
Handwriting of W. Fisk.
Handwriting of W. Fisk.
Petitions, in the name of the president & professors of the Wesleyan University that the existing law in relation to public amusements be preserved whole and entire. Handwriting of W. Fisk.
These include correspondence, writings on missionary work and Methodism, poetry, travel souvenirs, and administrative documents.
Includes bills for scientific and astronomical equipment.
In handwriting of W. Fisk. Fragile condition.
Not in W. Fisk's handwriting.
Joseph Holdich was the author of The Life of Willbur Fisk, D.D. (New York: Harper, 1842)
At Middlebury, Fisk was apparently insulted by its President Davis. He had to choose a new school after the War of 1812 closed Burlington University in Vermont.
Sent from Elliott Cresson, Secretary of the Colonization Society, Philadelphia, Edward Everett, and others.
Most are not to or from Willbur Fisk.
Handwritten.
Note and letter in handwriting of Willbur Fisk. Addressed to Brother Kingsbury.
Includes address on temperance, 1832. Printed in North Star, Danville, Vermont, 17 April 1832
23 lectures, handwritten. Typed transcripts also available.
Handwritten.
2 separate essays.
Manuscript and newspaper accounts
Two copies, one in Fisk's handwriting.
2 published copies, plus newspaper account.
One volume.
Over four hundred handwritten sermons.
2 different letters.
Pressed flowers, etc. from travels and letter mentioning tickets to Vatican, 1836.
Copy #2 contains some final portions not contained in Copy #1.
Draft outline of a biography?
See Joseph Holdich's The Life of Willbur Fisk, D.D.: New York, 1842
7 letters. Several mentions of adopted daughter Martha.
2 letters.
4 letters.
10 letters. Mention of Martha's death in 1844.
2 letters.
5 letters.
5 letters.
3 items.
2 items.
5 copies.
The Football Programs Collection contains programs for Wesleyan home and away games from 1891 through 2005. The collection is not complete for all years.
The programs are arranged in chronological order.
Note: Score card only.
Note: Score card only.
Note: Includes official game souvenir.
The collection is housed in two boxes. The first box is made up of Glee Club programs and announcements of the concerts from 1869 to 1923. The second box has later Glee Club concert programs and announcements, from 1926 to 1972. It also includes programs of the annual Christmas candlelight concert held in the chapel. Most of Glee Club concerts took place off-campus and are programs from these concerts are not included in this collection; however, every year until about the 1940s, the Glee Club held a mid-winter concert and a commencement concert on-campus, and programs for these performances are included. Beginning around the 1960s, the Glee Club participated in more performances with other glee clubs or other choirs, particularly from women's schools (mostly Wheaton College and Smith College). In working with the women's choirs, the groups often selected music from a previously-written production and held performances at both of the participating schools, which is noted on the programs.
The Great Hollow Wilderness School/WOW Collection includes files with information about both programs, and objects given to participants, such as water bottles, t-shirts, and hats.
The Harrington Papers are organized into 5 series and span the years 1880-1968. Most interesting is the Correspondence. It appears that John Spaeth, the first unofficial university archivist, grouped Harrington's correspondence (Series I, Box 1, folders 1-7) by topic or subject and wrote brief summaries for each folder. These summaries are included in each folder. Spaeth's organization by folder, along with his summaries have been maintained.
The following descriptions have been taken from Spaeth's summaries: Correspondence for the period November 1907 to March 1908 includes letters from Charles O. Judkins, (Class of 1895; Trustee 1910-1919) F.M. Davenport, and others concerning a proposal that Frederick M. Davenport, Class of 1889, be considered for election to the Wesleyan presidency. (W.A. Shanklin was elected president by the Board on November 13, 1908.)
Correspondence from July 1908 to February 1919 includes an interesting letter by Harrington to the Wesleyan Board of Trustees which is a proposal for the establishment of a woman's college under Wesleyan's auspice. His proposal is acknowledged by J.M. Buckley in a letter of November 20, 1908.
There is correspondence for 1916 with Dr. Olin concerning a new organ for Memorial Chapel.
There is correspondence is with Wesleyan official and contractors and relates to the electrification of the South College chimes in the folder covering the period February 1919 to December 1921.
Correspondence covering the years November 1925 to May 1942 is primarily between Harrington and President McConaughy and concerns such matters as salary, retirement, office accommodations, etc.
Folder 5 correspondence covers the years March 1922 to September 1952. This folder ends with a "Bon Voyage" farewell to Harrington and his wife, Jennie, as they move from Wesleyan to California with their daughter, Mabel Potter (Mrs. George), in 1951. There are long letters by the Harringtons to the Dutchers and Spaeths, also a photocopy of a letter by Dean Acheson.
Correspondence covering the years 1954-1960 includes letters of sympathy to Mrs. Harrington on the death of Karl Harrington. There is some business correspondence relating to the publication of Third Year Latin and other works. Some of the letters are between Mabel Potter and John Spaeth, but also with the publishers.
The last folder of correspondence covers the years 1961-1981 and contain letters between Mabel Potter and Verna and John Spaeth. Topics relates to the re-publication and copyright issues of some of Karl Harrington's writings.
Series II: Writing include some papers presented at the meetings of the Conversational Club and Apostles Club. They also reflect his interests in railroads, Middletown, and Wesleyan history. Harrington's notes and manuscript drafts on Latin are in Series III. His musical interests are reflected in Series IV. Harrington made several attempts at keeping a diary but without much success. Three very incomplete volumes of the diary can be found in Series V. Also in this series is a copy of Harrington's manuscript autobiography.
Series VI consists of 11 volumes of scrapbooks that were kept by Karl Pomeroy Harrington covering the years 1878 through 1936. Volumes are large and very fragile. The scrapbook paper is very deteriorated, pages crumble, items have become loose. The scrapbooks document events at Wesleyan, Middletown, and Harrington's interest in the Methodist Episcopal Church and music. They also contain information relating to other places that Harrington lived or taught, for example, North Carolina.
It should also be noted here that two items were not found when processing the K.P.H. Papers in 2005. The items are: Twentieth Century Club. Annual Report, 1911. Copy of typescript, 5p. and Tibullus Notes IV. These items were present on a preliminary list done in 1984.
Series I: Correspondence, 1907-1981
Series II: Writings, circa 1935-1949
Series III: Latin, 1880-1933
Series IV: Music, 1905-1950
Series V: Diaries/Autobiography, 1891-1895, 1968
Series VI: Scrapbooks, 1856-1925
In researching Civil War photographs, many photos in this album were found in books and authoritative websites attributed to various well known Civil War photographers such as George Bernard and Matthew Brady. None of the photographs in this album are identified and credited to its photographer by Samuel Hatfield. This album is an informative collection of well-known and historically significant photographs, maps and drawings of battles, forts, geographic locations, and people divided into eight sections.
Part I
Section I: Hartford, CT camp to Connecticut River, vicinity of Hagerstown, Funkstown, Williamsport, Falling Waters, Maryland and vicinity of Harpers Ferry, Alexandria and Hampton, Virginia.
Section II: Yorktown, VA
Section III: Peninsular Campaign
Section IV: Fredericksburg
Part II: Broadway Landing, Seige Train Depot and Headquarters
Section V: Petersburg Lines
Section VI: Our Mortar
Section VII: Bermuda Hundred & James River
Section VIII: Fort FisherInside front cover of album has note adhered to the page that reads:
"Presented to the Library of Wesleyan University 1915. Co. G, 4th Connecticut Volunteers was organized by the students and mustered into State service in April. The regiment was offered to the United States as part of the State contingent of troops for three months' service. It was not accepted as such, but its services were requested for three years, to which the regiment agreed and were so mustered May 22, 1861. It was the first regiment mustered into the United States service for the long term. The designation was changed in January 1862, to 1st Connecticut Heavy Artillery and as such served through the war.
"This album shows some of the scenes through which the regiment and students from the University passed, and may be of interest as a record of the peculiar nature of its (Artillery) services.
It is desired to be of record that, of the students thus engaged, at the last, in the breaking of the Confederate line at Fort Mahone, Petersburg, April 2, 1865, the University was actively represented and the supply of ammunition to the Union troops maintained through the day, when repeated attacks were made to recover the fort. By breaking the Confederate line here, Richmond was evacuated that night and the Confederacy dissolved like a broken bubble. Wesleyan was part of the bayonet point that broke it up, and the Union was saved. S.P. Hatfield, Class of 1862
Each photograph is listed in the order it appears in the album.
Bertha Hartzell kept journals and diaries throughout her life. Many of her journals are simple and brief recordings of the general nature of her days. However, some of her most extensive writing comes from her travel diaries, written during her time in Europe. These offer a fascinating and beautifully rendered picture of the life of well-to-do, educated Americans touring through the Old World. Clear and concise, her writing paints vivid scenes of perilous donkey rides to recently discovered ruins in Greece, of visits of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, and of boat trips through the Mediterranean.
The diary she kept in Germany in 1900 includes frequent references to the time she spent with young Artur Rubinstein, who would become the famous concert pianist. Rubinstein borrowed this diary from Bertha's son, Karl, as source material for his memoirs. He used red pencil to mark the portions that he would use for his writing, and these marks are still present, as is a portion of envelope in which Rubinstein shipped the book back to Karl after he had completed his research.
Her other diaries provide a look at the life of an unusually educated woman living in early 20th-century New England. These diaries include notes on social visits and events (in her younger years, visits from what appear to be suitors were very common subjects) as well as notes on her work as a student and later as a librarian. She also, unsurprisingly, recorded information about the state and activities of her family. Morton's work was a frequent topic while he was alive, but the goings-on of her son Karl and her father were often discussed thereafter.
Three other diaries are included in the collection that were not written by Bertha. Two are diaries from the Civil War era that apparently belonged to Bertha's father, Charles A. Drew. Another appears to have belonged to Bertha's husband Morton, and includes notes on religious philosophy as well as records of visits to (presumably) members of his congregation.
In addition, there are documents dealing directly with Bertha's life and with those of her family and friends, including a selection of Drew/Hartzell family letters spanning from the early 1900s to the 1970s, photographs, and clippings.
The Bertha Drew Hartzell Papers are in three Hollinger boxes. Box 1 contains her diaries, which are in chronological order. A few of her diaries/notebooks are not included in Box 1, generally because they are oversized or otherwise unsuited to the arrangement or content of Box 1. Vertical markers in Box 1 mark these missing items' chronological places and note the box in which they may be found.
Box 2 consists of five folders, the first three of which contain an oversized diary and the last two folders contain a series of loose page-a-day notes.
Box 3 consists of family notebooks and papers: Charles Acton Drew's diaries from the Civil War era, Bertha Hartzell's general notebooks from the early 1900s, Morton Hartzell's notebook, Hartzell family papers and letters, and family photos and memorabilia.
Materials include items specifically related to Wesleyan's V-12 program as well as writings, research, and published works related to naval wartime training and higher education during wartime in general. The first series, Wesleyan Navy V-12 Program, includes correspondence belonging to Herge and other Wesleyan figures regarding V-12 at Wesleyan; student publications and other student guides and programs; articles about Wesleyan's V-12 program published in campus publications; a report assessing Wesleyan's program; and a list of people involved in the V-12 at Wesleyan. The second series, Research and Writings, includes writings by Herge as well as research reports and other data used in his writings. Most of the writings are undated but seem to date from the mid- to late-1940s and are mostly in a draft, typescript format. Topics of the writing and research are higher education during wartime and wartime training. The third series, Other Publications, consists of journals, pamphlets, and other published materials that belonged to Herge. The subjects include wartime naval training, the Navy V-12 program, naval curricula information, and higher education in general.
Series 1: Wesleyan Navy V-12 Program
Series 2: Research and Writings
Series 3: Other Publications
Materials include correspondence belonging to Herge and other Wesleyan figures regarding V-12 at Wesleyan; student publications and other student guides and programs; articles about Wesleyan's V-12 program published in campus publications; a report assessing Wesleyan's program; and a list of people involved in the V-12 at Wesleyan.
Materials are arranged in alphabetical order.
These photographs are all related to Wesleyan. For other photographs of navy training programs, please see the photographs in the second series, Research and Writings.
Includes writings by Herge as well as research reports and other data used in his writings. Most of the writings are undated but seem to date from the mid- to late-1940s. The writings are mostly in a draft, typescript format. Topics of the writing and research are higher education during wartime and wartime training.
The collection is arranged with writings listed first, in alphabetical order. Research materials then appear in alphabetical order following the writings.
These photographs are from navy training programs across the country. For photographs of the Wesleyan program, please see the photographs in the first series, Wesleyan Navy V-12 Program.
Materials include journals, pamphlets, and other published materials that belonged to Herge. The subjects include wartime naval training, the Navy V-12 program, naval curricula information, and higher education in general.
Materials are arranged in alphabetical order.
In an effort to convey a sense of the dynamism of the history of racial diversity at Wesleyan, the materials are arranged under headings relating to student, faculty, and administrative groups rather than by racial categorizations. To order the large number of materials under such general headings as "African-American," "Asian-American" or "Latino/a" would be reductive. To do so would deny historical context, the ways in which groups often struggled with and against each other (and among themselves) over issues, from black-Asian conflict in the late 1970s and early 1980s to the formation of the Tri-Minority Council (TMC, later the Student of Color Council) in 1989.
Such categorizations also do not allow for the ways in which administrative initiatives geared toward one group often affected another group. For example, admission policies aimed at matriculating more African-American students opened doors for increased Latino presence. General racial designations are themselves historically contingent, products of particular cultural moments and political exigencies. This is not to deny the ways in which groups are identified and choose to self-identify. Rather it is to encourage enumeration and fuller illumination of the many meanings and manifestations of racial diversity. Finally, separate categories wrongly emphasize that the history documented in this archive is the sole property of the ethnic and racial groups under whose heading it falls, rather than the property and legacy of the institution as a whole.
In this vein, the collection is divided into three series, and sub-groups within each:
Series 1: Documents, photographs, and textiles collected by the Hewlett Pluralism and Unity Project to document the history of diversity at Wesleyan University;
Series 2: Audio material and transcriptions documented by Hewlett Fellows as part of the project; and
Series 3: Documents relating to the Hewlett project and its participants.
Within the first series, there are folders on topics such as admissions, educational funding, curriculum, racial statistics, administration and faculty, students, alumni, student groups, campus events, racial incidents, special interest housing. Included are documents from and about the 1969 Fisk Hall takeover, which resulted in the first attempt at an Afro-American Studies curriculum; the lampooning of Boon Tan, an Asian member of the class of 1980; and the racist letters to the Malcolm X House and the campus response in 1980. Also included are documents concerning Wesleyan-Middletown relations and collaboration.
Student groups are an integral component of any campus; accordingly, the archive includes papers of many of these organizations. There are extensive papers of the Asian-American Cooperative Theater (AACT) in particular. Also interesting are the papers of inter-ethnic groups such as Society Organized Against Racism (SOAR) and Racism Awareness Workshop (RAW). It is important to note that names of these organizations changed periodically to reflect new nomenclature and new missions. For example, Asian and Asian-American students first organized as Wesleyan Asian Students Party (WASP), later renamed themselves Wesleyan Asian Interest Group (WAIG), then Wesleyan Asian/Asian-American Student Union (WAAASU), and now, in the most recent incarnation, as Asian-American Pacific Alliance (AAPA). Student publications are also included, as well as event fliers, invitations, and notices of speakers.
There is also an array of documents concerning admission strategies and curricular development. Particularly interesting are admission brochures and booklets aimed at recruiting students of color dating back to 1975. There are also admission policy statements and minutes from Board of Trustees meetings; "special minority group" admission profiles; and recruitment strategies developed by task forces of color. There is extensive documentation of the founding and growth of the Afro-American Institute, the first attempt at institutionalizing African-American Studies and a center for black culture and research; and of the first Asian-American Studies course offered in the 1985-86 school year. Juxtaposed with these files is the Ford Foundation Grant for Multicultural Perspectives in Curriculum, submitted by Joanne Creighton, Vice President of Academic Affairs, in September 1991. One can also find administrative documents on the ethno-cultural houses.
Throughout the last 35 years, there have been many committees, task forces, and ad-hoc groups that have sought to make sense of and improve racial diversity and racial interaction on campus. Papers from some of these groups are gathered here, including the Multicultural Committee, the Committee on Human Rights and Relations, and the Presidential Commission on Race Relations.
There are also documents from the various Alumni Councils. We are fortunate to have some of the papers of the late Professor of German Theodore Chadbourne (Chad) Dunham, among the first faculty to teach a course with racial themes; a folder entitled Alumni of Color in the Arts, which showcases some of the work of Glenn Ligon '86 and Olivia Astrid Smith '92, both accomplished photographers; and speeches of Edwin (Ted) Etherington '48, president of the University during the turbulent period of 1968-1970. Finally, there is a 1980 Alumni Reunion T-shirt Where Is Boon Tan?
The second series continues with material collected by Hewlett Fellows, and includes audio tapes, including Edgar Beckham's seminars, various interviews with alumni produced by students of the seminars, and speeches by distinguished guests to the campus.
The third series is documentation of the Hewlett Project itself, incorporating the work of the Summer Research Fellows (including the various publication indices), Fellows' research notes, various tutorial readings and assignments, the original grant proposal and progress reports, and further documents and directories on diversity. This series provides an understanding of the scope and mission of the project.
A final note: It is the hope of participators in and shapers of the Hewlett Project and the Hewlett Diversity Archive that this collection will continue to grow and expand, that students, faculty, and administrators, past and present, white and of color, will contribute documents and memorabilia to the archive. The history and memory of Wesleyan's commitment to racial diversity is the property and responsibility of all of us, just as the course of Wesleyan's future is our collective obligation.
Includes discussions of co-education, race, and anti-war activities.
Statement on racial problems at Wesleyan.
Includes items relating to the establishment of an (American) Indian Studies Program.
Epilogue to a poem by an unidentified Wesleyan student, late 1960s.
Includes information about the Tri-Minority Council and the ALANA Conference, 1994.
Photographs.
Includes photograph.
This folder includes photographs only.
Photograph only.
Subjects include James Baldwin, Angela Davis (includes photo), Nikki Giovanni, and Desmond Tutu. Includes photo of Henry L. (Skip) Gates, spring 1993.
Photograph only.
Two tapes.
Two tapes.
Two tapes.
3 tapes.
4 tapes.
2 tapes.
4 tapes.
On the Black Repertory Theatre.
On Minister Farrakhan.
2 tapes.
2 tapes.
2 tapes.
Side A.
Side B.
Side A.
Side B.
Includes photo.
Items arranged chronologically.
Rushdy’s Housing Tutorial papers are arranged by topic in the Minority Student / Special Interest Housing section.
Arranged by subject.
Arranged by subject.
There is no comprehensive collection of materials pertaining to and arising out of Holland's rich life. However, the materials described here and held at Wesleyan University do touch, in some measure, nearly every part of his long career. The bulk of the collection contains manuscripts, field diaries, publications, reports, silent films, artworks, and books related to wildlife conservation and game protection in the United States, from 1903 to 1970. It also contains a small amount of diaries, scrapbooks, correspondence and personal family items spanning 1872 to 1970.
Richard Estabrook of the class of 1974 assisted in the organization and description of the Holland papers. The collection is organized into ten series: Family Materials, 1872-1974; Holland Writings, 1903-1965; Wildlife Photographs, 1910-1965; Migratory Bird Conservation, 1913-1937; American Game Protective Association, 1911-1969; International Association of Game, Fish and Conservation Commissioners, 1912-1970; Field & Stream Motion Pictures of Hunting and Fishing, 1924-1931; Wildlife Art, 1939-1944; Field & Stream, 1939-1944; and Books, 1929-1962.
Positive prints of 16 mm., silent, black and white, documentary motion pictures of field sports taken during editorship of Field &Stream magazine by Holland in 1920s. The films are each held in metal cannisters.
DVD master and viewing copy available, created July 2010.
The collection consists primarily of recordings of Hawaiian songs and dance notations by Huapala used to teach the hula. There are several books and some printed material on Hawaiian history and culture, and tapas.
Series I: Records
Series II: Dance Notations
Series III: Books, Record Jackets, and Printed miscellaneous
Series IV: Tapas
The records are arranged numerically and an Excel spread sheet (converted into PDF) was created to provide the following information:
Field A: Box and record number. (For example, record number 55 can be found in box 1; record number 240 is in box 6.)
Field B: Side A Information. Provides names of all the artists (if listed) and the songs that are contained on side A of the record.
Field C: Side B Information. Provides names of all the artists (if listed) and the songs that are contained on side B of the record.
Field D: Record Company Number.
Field E: Notation. This lists whether or not the record matches up with any of the dance notations. For example, if A is listed in the field, that means that there is a notation that matches the song on side A. If A, B is listed, that means that there is a match to one/all of the songs on sides A and B of the record. As an example, the track on Side B of #14, Kawiahe, matches up to a dance notation, Kawiahe, so it is listed as B.
A PDF containing information about all of the records in series 1 is available at: http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/Huapala_Records.pdf
Dance Notations are arranged alphabetically by song title. Almost all of the dance notations have a match with one of the records in boxes 1-6. If No Corresponding Record is noted, that means that the dance notation does not have a match.
The notations in box 10 are duplicates of the ones in boxes 7-9. these are also arranged alphabetically.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
No corresponding record.
Tapa, also known as barkcloth, is made from the inner bark of shrubs or trees that have been softened and expanded into thin sheets by a process of soaking or beating.
Large flat box containing 3 tapas:
(1) 72 in. wide x 7 ft. printed
(2) 58 in. wide x 5 ft. 2 colors—brown and brown ink pattern
(3) 17 in. x 24 in. natural with small linear with decorations on it.
Large flat box containing 3 tapas:
(4) 76 in. x 9 ft. natural, no pattern, 18 in. "C" shaped tear. [red label marked 13.216?]
56 in. x 6 ft. heavy, yellow dyed cloth with printed brown and black pattern. Slight damage on one corner.
(6) 39 in. x 26 in.
Long roll box containing a tapa rolled, 42 in. x 6.5 ft. natural with a yellowish coloring. Some insect damage.
Long roll box containing a tapa rolled, 36 in. x 7 ft. natural with [red?] stamping. Deckled, torn edge. Could be half or piece with roll 3.
Long roll box containing a tapa rolled, 29 in. x 7 ft.
The William John James Trustee and Financial Records concern financial matters brought before the Board of Trustees. Notable subject groupings for these dates include Buildings and Grounds and the Carnegie Foundation accreditations. These records are not a complete collection of Trustee business, but complement other Trustees' holdings in the Wesleyan University Archives.
According to a June 19, 1918 memo from Secretary of the Board David Downey, James was responsible for holding important Trustee documents. Most of the James administrative papers are marked copy or have been copied, many of annotations. Several documents in this collection are not represented in other Trustee collections.
James organized his collection by either year or by subject. This arrangement has been maintained. Year listings correspond with the date ending the academic year in question.
Includes handwritten index.
2 copies of each.
The John Johnston Papers include correspondence, biographical information, materials about the study of science at Wesleyan University, and a scrapbook of programs from 19th century Wesleyan events.
The correspondence of John Johnston contains much interesting material on and around the formative years of Wesleyan University. Many of the letters deal with science (fossils and minerals); the teaching of science (textbooks, lab experiments, and equipment); letters of inquiry and requests for catalogs from prospective students; addresses at commencement; and contributions to Frankfort Mineral Cabinet. The collection is especially useful on the topics of science and science vis a vis Methodism at the dawning of Darwinism. Other letters in the collection discuss the Civil War and Wesleyan University.
The correspondence of J.G. Blair is notably interesting for comments on the Civil War and on science education in relation to religion, or inquiries into the mysteries of God's great laboratory. (January 27, 1863)
A. Rollins' letter for February 3 is an interesting diatribe on the suspect morals of a Wesleyan student. A letter (May 6, 1851) from M. C. White from China contains the flavor of his life as a missionary as he tries to preach in Chinese on Sundays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays in a little room opening to the street between the river and the south gate of the city. Many of the J. Holdich letters of the 1860s deal with the politics as well as the sorrow of the war. Among other Johnston correspondents are Nathan Bangs, Cyrus Foss, Joseph Cummings, the Hoyts, and Orange Judd.
Correspondence is arranged chronologically.
96 letters to John Johnston.
79 letters to John Johnston.
17 letters to John Johnston. Filed alphabetically.
11 letters.
4 letters.
Written from the American Association of Geologists and Naturalists Meeting at Albany, NY.
Regarding settling of note.
Regarding Middletown and Vicinity Bible Society.
Regarding printing delays on Johnston's work on Natural Philosophy, October 20, 1845.
Regarding the Legacy of Bishop Hedding.
Regarding Henry Olin's mumps.
Thanking Mrs. Olin for contribution to mineral case.
Invitation to first annual dinner of the New York Wesleyan University Club.
Envelopes addressed to Third Assistant Post Master General, Washington.
2 pages. Signature unreadable.
Letters of introduction for prospective students.
Character references, letters certifying teacher qualifications, records of donations, honors, awards, memberships, and official commission as State Chemist (January 10, 1872).
Written by John Johnston, Registrar. Includes description of Wesleyan's real and moveable property.
2 letters, which request money.
Payments, subscriptions.
Reports
Discusses adding personal mineral collection to the Wesleyan Mineral Cabinet.
Removed from two volumes of the Maine Wesleyan Journal from Johnston's own library.
These items were loose in the scrapbook found in Box 2.
The items in the scrapbook are pasted in chronologically, but they have been listed here by type. Items dating from 1872 to 1874 were loose, and can be found in Box 1, Folder 24.
See also Anniversary Exercise programs.
The Anniversary Exercises took the place of Senior Exhibitions in 1843.
The Robert Edmond Jones Papers contains Jones's correspondence, both incoming and outgoing, his manuscript writings, drawings and design materials, photographs, and printed materials including clippings related to the many plays and films on which he worked during his long career as a stage designer and color consultant. The papers document Jones's work in theater as a set designer in the United States during the early twentieth century and his involvement in motion picture making during the 1930s.
Correspondence - Contains incoming and outgoing correspondence from 1934 to 1950.
Writings - Contains manuscript writings by Robert Edmond Jones on topics related to theater and stagecraft, acting and actors, and motion pictures. Included in the manuscript writings are four folders of Jones's recorded dreams from 1944 to 1945. Also contains writings of others about Robert Edmond Jones from 1916 to 1954.
Design - Contains materials used and created by Robert Edmond Jones in his stage design work. Includes sketches and drawings, printed material, and photographs.
Printed Materials - Contains clippings of reviews and articles relating to Jones's work in theater and film from 1916 to 1950, programs from 1919-1957. Within the Printed Materials series, a note from Jones to his mother, dated 1930 is included in the clippings for Symphony Hall. Also within Printed Materials is a note by Kenneth Macgowan, which is located in the folder of programs for Three Plays by Ridgley Torrence. Series also includes a scrapbook containing clippings related to Jones's work as a color consultant from 1933 to 1935.
Audio Recordings - Contains audio recordings of Robert Edmond Jones's lectures, dated 1955 and 1963.
Oversize Material - Contains photographs of set designs, materials related to costume design, and large drawings for set design.
The collection is organized into six series: Correspondence, Writings, Design, Printed Materials, Audio Recordings, and Oversize Materials. Correspondence is further divided into two categories, incoming and outgoing, and is arranged alphabetically. Writings are arranged alphabetically by title or subject. Many of the writings remain unidentified, and have been kept with the materials with which they were originally filed. These unidentified manuscripts may be parts or fragments of other manuscript drafts or notes written by Jones. The Design series contains materials created or used by Jones in his design work. The materials are arranged by form. Additional drawings and design materials are located in the Oversize Materials series. Printed Materials consist of clippings, programs, and ephemera related to Jones's work in theater and film. Oversize materials consist mainly of large drawings and other design related materials and are arranged in alphabetical order by title of the play and drawing number.
Includes clippings about La Cucaracha.
Contains clippings related to Jones's work as a color consultant in early Technicolor filmmaking.
The diary of Harriet Stewart Judd was written between the years 1872 to 1873, during Judd's travels throughout the Eastern Coast of the United States and much of Europe. Judd describes many acquaintances she met during her travels, including a former Wesleyan graduate, Mr. Coe, but Judd focuses mainly upon herself and her family. The main family members mentioned are Orange Judd (husband), Sarah (stepdaughter), Charles (son), and George (son). The diary is centered around the Judd family's travels and the attractions they come across on their journey. Judd describes many of the palaces, castles, and other points of interest with thorough architectural details along with some historical background on its origins. Judd's diary also allows the reader to glimpse the lifestyle of a traveling family, many of whom are often stricken with illness. In a number of Judd's passages she mentions how her husband, Orange, has become sick again, usually with a cold or headache. The diary also describes how the family used different forms of transportation such as steamboats, carriages, donkeys, rail carts, and tunnels in order to reach their destinations. There are not many organizations or businesses mentioned in her diary, but Harriet often spends her time shopping throughout her journeys. The diary is 176 pages in length and is entirely handwritten in cursive.
The first entry in Harriet Judd's diary is titled Notes of Travel – No. 5 and opens with the family already traveling in Italy. Thus, it is assumed that this diary is part of a series of diaries, despite this volume being the only one in Wesleyan's Special Collections & Archives. The diary begins with the family waiting to travel to Naples on October 30, but they were delayed due to the large number of troops around the train station. After they arrived in Naples and checked into the Hotel de Russie, the Judds began their tour of the castle of Carthusian Monastery and other museums. After a few days rest they traveled to the ancient city of Pompeii where Judd spent a good deal of time describing the runes.
Sunday, after the Judds attended mass, they visited the St. Januarius Cathedral, the San Pauli Maggio church and La Capella de san Serreze church, where she detailed the history and beauty of these places. The next day, Judd went to the Grotto of Pausilippo, the temple of Jupiter-Serapis, the temple of Neptune, the temple of Nymphs, the temple of Apollo, the village of Baccoli, and the Hot Baths of Nero. She regretted the decay of these places, but decided it was inevitable once the Roman Empire fell.
On November 6, after thoroughly enjoying Naples, the family decided leave Italy for Paris, France, by way of carriage. It was a freezing ride to France during the late season, and Harriet doubted if they will ever make it to the city. On November 9th, however, they finally reached Paris and after they checked into the Hotel de Lourdes on the Rue Castiglione, Judd went to see the Palais Royal. The family spent a few days shopping in this fashionable city, and then decided to move on to London on November 12. After having a relatively smooth ride across the channel, the Judds check into the Queen's Hotel whereupon they decide to travel to Liverpool. It is at this point that Judd stops writing about her trip. On the following page in the diary Judd begins a new journey in America.
The next section of the diary is titled Notes of Journal Commenced and accompanying Harriet on this journey to the southern United States is Orange (husband), George (son), and Charles (son). On February 15, 1873, the family left their hometown of Flushing, New York to travel to Washington D.C., during which Orange was already sick. After leaving Washington for Richmond, Virginia, their train underwent a malfunction and the family was forced to stay in a barn overnight. After reaching Richmond, the family then traveled to Charlotte, North Carolina, where they met Mr. Coe, a Wesleyan graduate. He accompanied them to see superphosphate mines found near Charleston, South Carolina. The family then traveled among the mines and noted the superphosphates' importance during the Civil War.
After reaching Savannah, Georgia, the family traveled once more to their destination of St. James, Florida. At this point, the diary begins to skip several days without any explanation of what occurred during this time when the family traveled around Florida. In Florida, the Judds visited a few points of interest including the Grace Spring and Green Cave Spring, and they met many entertaining acquaintances. After spending over a month in Florida, the family traversed the long journey back to Flushing where Harriet noted she was thankful for all that God had given her.
The final section of the diary is titled Journal for tour commenced and details another of Judd's European journeys. On August 9, 1873 Harriet, Orange, Sarah, and "the two little boys" left America by way of steamer for Ireland. After a 12-day journey, the family finally arrived with not even Orange getting sick. After staying in Ireland a few days, the family traveled to England where they visited William Shakespeare's grave. However, on August 25, Judd announced that she would stop writing in her diary for a while because it was giving her headaches Thus when the diary begins again on November 27, the family had moved to Geneva, where the boys were being taught by Mr. Louis Dalaprez. Harriet and Sarah have also taken lessons in French, while Orange and George have been sick in bed for a while. However, on December 4, the family decided to travel to Italy in hope that the warm weather would heal the invalids.
The family decided to take first-class carriages to Italy because they wanted to be comfortable on the long ride. After traveling for many days, Judd finally reached Italy, by way of the famed Mount Cenis Tunnel, and checked into Hotel D'Europe in Turin. However, Orange and Geroge were still severely sick and they decided to call a physician who prescribed them some prescriptions from the druggist. After visiting the armory and Royal Palace of Turin, Judd decided that they should travel to Genoa, where she believed there was much more to see.
On December 9, Judd left Turin by carriage and encountered an unfortunate event. While traveling, she was stopped by two burly men who demanded that they be stowed away with the Judd family. Though they tried to resist, the men found a way in. Luckily, nothing serious occurred other than a trip with two men who smelled terribly. Eventually the family reached Genoa, after making a few stops to see the city of Alessandria and the battlefield of Marengo, and checked into a hotel. The next few days were spent visiting the tourist spots such as the Palace Reale of the Durazzo family, the Church Sa Annunsiata, the Spinola Palace, the Cathedral of San Lorenzo, Rossi or Brignole Sale Palace, Serra Palace, the church of St. Maria di Carignano, and the Doria Palace. Each of these places is described in grand detail, and with Judd showing a loving appreciation for the marble architecture.
An interesting event occurs when the family visited the Genoa hospital for the poor on December 13. Here they find a hospital that could house thousands of people, and took care of the many orphans of Genoa. Here the orphans were trained in furniture making, and most of them seemed absolutely content in what they were doing. Judd was relieved to see charity in Genoa, but was also surprised to see so many dwarfs in the hospital. The next few days were again spent sight seeing, including the Villa Pallavicini, the Durazzo and Balbi palaces, and the gardens Resazzia. Again all of these are described in flowing details by Judd. However, after spending 13 days in Genoa, the family decided that it was time to move on to Naples.
n December 22nd, the Judds left Genoa via a steamer. However, before reaching Naples, the boat first made a stop over in Pisa where Judd decided to visit the city. They immediately traveled to the cathedral group in Pisa where she was at a loss of words to describe the Leaning Tower of Pisa. They also visited the Cathedral, the Bell Tower, and the Campo Santo, all of which are described in great detail. After an exciting day they returned to the boat and in two days they reached their final destination of Naples on December 25. They quickly checked into the hotel Crocelle, and then went to the Cathedral to celebrate Christmas mass. It is here after thanking God and wishing her family well on Christmas that the journal abruptly ends.
There is a bit of wear and tear to the cover. Some of the leather has become brittle and is beginning to fall off of the spine of the book. Despite the degrading quality of the leather, the book is completely intact and well bound. Some of the ink has begun to fade, but all pages are still legible.
The Louise Wilby Knight Papers consist of questionnaires completed by female members of classes during Wesleyan's first period of coeducation (1872-1912) and research notes used to write her senior thesis in 1972.
The collection begins in 1946 with documents from Knapp's time as a Beta Theta Pi pledge. One is a letter from the pledge-masters with a task (involving a trip to Connecticut Women's College) as well as Knapp's partial documentation of that task. The other is a Beta Theta Pi banquet program.
The collection continues with letters that Knapp wrote home to his family. He typically writes to some combination of his mother, father, and sister. These letters are often long and detailed, and usually include information about his daily life at school.
Knapp spends a lot of time describing various events he went to and people he knew, as well as his academic and social concerns. He is also, however, unusually explicit about other aspects of Wesleyan life, including drinking, gambling, dating, and sex. He describes a few trips taken to other schools by himself and the brothers, as well as other Beta Theta Pi events.
The papers are arranged chronologically.
The Gale Lackey Papers include materials related to Wesleyan women's athletics teams, particularly the volleyball team. Materials are predominantly audiovisual and photographic, supplemented with personal notes, pamphlets, manuals and photocopies of published articles. The collection is unprocessed.
These letters were handwritten while Legg was a student at Wesleyan (1900-1904) and kept by Legg's mother. In 1907, when Legg married, he and his wife, Nellie, typed them up and they were kept in storage until his wife died in 1968. At that point, many of the letters has been eaten by silverfish. In 1972, at the age of 92, Legg went through the half-eaten letters and added some notes and tried to fill in the missing information. The typed transcripts are 175 pages with the letters filling the pages.
The Howard Legg Letters are about life on the Wesleyan University campus while Legg was a student between 1900 and 1904. He wrote about life as a freshman, such as trying to become a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon, as well as his his classes and the work that came with them. He was on the track team and wrote about the practices and meets. Legg was interested in the other athletic achievements of the university, especially when his friends were part of them, particularly the football team. He was a member of various campus groups and described his activities. For the most part, the letters specifically to his father are more business-like than those to the whole family or just his mother. He often mentioned finances in the letters to his father. While it is only mentioned in the very last letter in the collection, Legg delivered a speech, The Sense of Responsibility, at his commencement ceremony, but the text is not included in this collection of letters.
The letters are organized chronologically by date.
The following list includes the date of each letter and the page in the transcript it is on, as well as to whom the letter was written. The actual letters are not part of the collection, but the text of all of them are included in the transcripts.
The collection includes official documents (hearings, reports, legal briefs, orders, and rulings), pamphlets, articles, clippings, and notations, and documents national labor policy in the United States from 1922-1970. Materials cover the United States Department of Labor, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), National Industrial Relations Act of 1934, the Taft-Hartley Act, and Labor Cases in lower federal courts and the Supreme Court. There is little correspondence or other manuscript material in the collection.
Papers of mathematician, novelist, musician, publisher, and social critic Roy Lisker. Lisker publishes Ferment magazine and is the proprietor of the Ferment Press.
Lisker transfers papers in archival cartons, which have been rehoused in archival document boxes. The original order of the materials has been maintained, and is noted by the "Old box" series headings. The archival document box holdings are noted in the scope and content notes for the "Old box" series (for example, "Old box 26: Journals" will be found in archival boxes 49-50).
(i) Concert Song, Soprano. Voice and Piano 1966
(ii) Photocopy of Soprano
(iii)Photocopy of Alto Arrangement
(iv) Alto, Expanded Version
(i) Soprano
(ii) Alto (Page 3 Missing)
(iii)Vocal Score, Soprano (Page 3 missing)
(i) Copy of Max Eschig original
(ii) Photocopy
(i) Version of 1963
(ii) Version of 1987
Original handwritten score. Page 33 missing, replaces with photocopy
(i)Ferment Press score, bound
(ii)Original handwritten score
Original Camera Copy version
(i)Original version, pen and ink (final page missing)
(ii) felt pen version, complete
(iii) Pasteup for photocopy, complete
(iv) ferment Press photocopy
(i) Bhagavad Gita 8:18
(ii) Pomes Pennyeach of James Joyce
(iii) Haiku's
(i)Arabesque: Brussels, Belgium, 1970
(ii)Sonata movement, New York 1966
(iii) Two-Tone music: Philadelphia 1967
Dublin, Paris, New York
List on torn cover of 39 songs
Original Song: Lullaby
2 voice arrangement
Original Song: Jacqueline
Original Song: Summer
"Ma Belle, Si Tu Voulais"-Pencil
"Last Rose of Summer" Pen and Ink
"Lusty Young Smith"
"John Henry"
"Cherry Tree Carol"- Pencil
"Silent Night" -Pencil
"The Lover's Ghost" - Felt Pen
"The Maid of Newfoundland"--Felt Pen
Lullaby - chords only
"Muwashshah" on reverse side
Guitar, no words
"Moreton Bay"
"Go Down, Moses"
"House of the Rising Sun" Pencil
"Drover's Dream" Pencil
"Waltzing Mathilda" Pencil
"Moreton Bay" Pen
"Streets of Forbes" Pen
"Die Lorelei" Pencil
"Muwashshah" Pen ; with words
"Oft in the Stilly Night" Pencil
"The Willow Song" - Pencil
"Waltzing Mathilda"; Pencil
"Papillon, tu est voyage" Sketch only, pencil
"The New Jerusalem"
"The Cutty Wren" Pen and Pencil
"Sixteen Tons" Notes only
Original song: Elsinore Pencil
"Le Deserteur" Pencil
"Peat Bog Soldiers" Pencil
"Bold Fenian Men" Pen and Pencil
"Down By the Sally Gardens"; Pen and Pencil
"Las Tres Hoyas"
"Papillon, Tu es Voyage"; Arrangement in Pencil; Melody line in red ink
"Du Maydele Du Fayns" Pen, Ballpoint "Scottish Lullaby ' Original words Pen
"The Broomfield Hill" Ballpoint
"All My Trials"
"Ye Mariners All" Pencil
"Down By the Sally Gardens" Pen
"Los Cuatro Muleros" Pencil
"Greensleeves" Pencil
"The Evening Winds", Pen Original Words
"Blue Moon" Pen
"Cocaine Blues" Pencil Chords
"The Three Fishers" Felt Pen
"Ma Belle, Si Tu Voulais" Felt Pen
"Waltzing Mathilda" Felt Pen
"Aunt Rhody" Felt Pen
"The Three Fishers" Felt Pen
"Los Reyes de la Baraja" Felt Pen
"The Unquiet Grave" Felt Pen
"The Lover's Ghost" Felt Pen
"Le Deserteur" Felt Pen
"The Lusty Young Smith" Felt Pen
"Franky and Johnny" Felt Pen
"Henry Martin" Felt Pen
"Edward" -Felt Pen
"Streets of Forbes" - Felt Pen
"The Peat-Bog Soldiers"
"Barbara Allen"
"The House of the Rising Sun"
"Ye Mariners All"
"Du Maydele Du Feyns"
"Ma Belle si Tu Voulais"-Ballpoint Pen
"Die Lorelei" -Pencil
"Jacqueline" - Ballpoint
"Summer" Ballpoint
"Spring Song" Ball point
"Lullaby" chords. Ballpoint
"Unquiet Grave" Felt Pen
"Go Down, Moses" -Pen
" The Lover's Ghost" Pen
"Les Trois Petits Enfants" Pen
"Les Trois Petits Enfants" -Pencil
"Scottish Lullaby" Pen
"Les Trois Petits Enfants" Pencil
"Oy Azoy Neyt A Shnayder" Pencil
"Franky and Johnny" 4 Versions
"Barbara Allen" Felt Pen, words on back
"Barbara Allen" Felt Pen
"Du Maydele du Fayns" Pencil
"Hava Naghila" Pen
"Down By The Sally Gardens" Pencil
"Nobody Knows The Trouble I've Seen" - 2 pencil versions
"Which Side Are You On?" 3 Versions
"Nobody Knows The Trouble I've Seen" - Pen
"Three Fishers" Pencil Sketch
"All My Trials" Pencil Sketch
"Unquiet Grave" Pencil
"Hier Apres-midi" Original; satire on student restaurants in Paris.
"Down By the Sally Gardens" 2 Voice version, Pen
"Unquiet Grave" Pencil
"Barbara Allen" Ink and Pencil
"All My Trials" Pencil
"Three Fishers" Sketch
"Three Fishers", complete. Pencil
"Henry Martin" Pencil
"Maid of Newfoundland" Felt Pen
'Maid of Newfoundland' Pencil
"Muwashshah" Pencil Sketch
"Franky and Johnny" Pencil
"Go Down, Moses" Pencil
"Greensleeves" Pen
"Ye Mariners All" -Pen
"House of the Rising Sun" Pen
"Bulbas" Pen
"Chalita" Tango; Pencil
"Les Trois Petits Enfants" Felt Pen
"Los Reyes de la Baraca" Pencil
"Henry Martin" Felt Pen
"Evening Winds" Pencil
Bard College Documents
two copies
two copies, final page of the outline is missing
2 copiestwo directions
Small format
bidirectional
Puerto Rico, Summer 1982
Puerto Rico: Materials for "Puerto Rico, Culture, Tourism and Politics" June 1982
YMHA Composers Conference, February 7, 1981
MSS of "El Pessebre" 150 pages
Background notes for "El Pessebre"
"Chronicles of Nin" 1970 Version
"Chronicles of Nin" Revision of 2001, loose pages
Harvest of Chains, Original Typescript 1970
Sampling of Chapters, 1989
Revision of 1989, typescript Meal Ticket: Original Typescript, Paris 1972
Berkeley Love Story, Originals
Une Gauche Embryonaire In Memoriam Einstein
Lecture Notes "French Anti-Novel" delivered at the Ethical Culture Society, Philadelphia, 1967
"Free University in the Modern World" 1968
"The Underground Newspaper in America" 1968
2 articles published in BUNAC (British Universities North American Club ),1968,69
Gerard Debreu's Nobel Prize Award: Proving Reaganomics by Pure Mathematics
Tale of the Guru
i. Autumn Chant
ii. Was the Dog Walking the Dog
iii. That Bad Bat
iv. Junk Truck, version of October 1984
v. Dinosaur Chant, version of August 1984
vi. Lethal Evil Level
vii. Battle Ax Battle
viii. Warble Chant
viii. When Oxen Knock Sick Clocks
ix. Uranium
x. Megatherium
xi. Rainbow Gathering Chant
xii. Memory
xiii. Murmur
xiv. Wash
xv. Atavism
Lightnings Crash, Version of 1985
The Drugstore
Logan Airport
(i) Group Structure of Monotonic Functions
(ii) Pseudo-Representations 1999
(iii) Representation Spaces 1999
(iv) Modal Logics 1993
(v) Semiomorphisms 1988
(vi) Generalized Infinitesimals 1993
boxes 44-45
1. Folder, Winter, 1995
2. Circular Tangrams -Originals 1991
3. Lyric Anthology I, Illustrated Poetry 1992
4. Donation Cards, Original Worksheets
Insane Card; Professor Card; Space Alien Card
Crazy Card; Wandering Scholar; Woodstock Bohemian;
Harvard Psychiatrist Card
5. Samples of Donation Cards and Calling Cards
6. Ferment Press Covers
7. Application materials for Wesleyan graduate program in Music 10/17/97
8. Documents from France; Reviews of Novel "Je Suis Trop Intelligente, Moi!" 1968-72
9. Articles 1994-1999
Employer's Application
Ferment Ads
Mathematics Consultant for the Arts
Sketch for F Press book on Chaos Theory
Genteel Gibberish (Wesleyan Writers Conference) 1997
M.A.D.E. Manifesto (Large and Small Format)
Pianowandeljahre Notes
Letter to Pat Frederick
Pat's Reply
Post-Modern Monochord for Jon Barlow
10. Publicity, General
11. Ferment Advertising 1995
12. Copy of Kodaikanal school Yearbook "Eucalyptus" 1952
13. Catalogues, Monitors, Brochures. etc. 1990's
14. Cards and Drawings Berkeley, 1984-87
15. Cards and Drawings
16. "Live-Objet pour Joan Tower" 1979; Color Xeroxes
17. Articles
(a) Journal of Irreproducible Results 1979
(b) "Smokey" BUNAC Magazine February 1969
(c) Commonweal Mag Article, R. Alleva Feb. 2001
18. 'Application for Visiting Scholar' Documents Berkeley 1985
19. Articles from "The Observer" Bard College 1977-79
box 45
1. Reprint of "Projective Constructs" Article from Heavy Ion Physics, pgs. 49-56. November 2000
2. Inventory of Science Papers Version of 1997
3. Project Notebook, December, 2000
4. Ellis Horwood - Business Correspondence
5. "Causal Algebras " Original Version, Berkeley 1983-87
6. "Counter-Intuitive Science" Revision Pages November 2001
7. "Counter-Intuitive Science" Revision Pages December 2001
8. "Topological Insights" Revision Pages 3/20/2002
9. Addresses from the ICMP Conference, Boulder CO 1983
10. Addresses from the Fractals Conference Cincinnati 1987
11. Mathematics Notebook August, 2000
12. Bidirectional Notebook:
Front: American Mathematical Society, Jan 2000
Back: Study and Research
13. Mathematics Manual. Original Handwritten Version
14. Planning Book for the "Grothendieck Meeting" Paris, February 2001
15. Ferment Mailing List September 2001
boxes 46-47
1. Samples in looseleaf binder 1983
2. Russell Biography review - 2nd Revision pages
3. Ferment V: Eiffel Tower Gang, (complete)
4. Notes for review "A Beautiful Mind"
5. Ferment IV Large Format
6. Russell Biography review - 1st Revision pages
7. Notes for review of Bertrand Russell biography of Ray Monk
8. Ferment XV#3 Revision Pages
9. Ferment XV#3
10. Ferment XV#3 Third Revision
11. FermentXV#7 Second Revision
12. FermentXV#3 Beaver Falls section
13. Notes for Russell biography review
14. Ferment XIV#10, #11 Draft Version "Revolution at Pierrefonds”
15. Ferment XV#3 Tivoli, NY section
16. Eiffel Tower Gang, Finale
17. Ferment V #11 Eiffel Tower Gang
18. New Universe Weekly, November 1981 - Croton on Harmon
19. Ferment Volume I: Miscellaneous
boxes 47-48
1. Governments of Chelm Large Format, 2-sided
2. Tales of Frustrated Musicians Version of 1997 Small Format
3. Notes for Essay "Milton and Music" November 2001
4. Draft of Milton Essay
5. "State of the Bunion" Editorial February 2002
6. Tales of Frustrated Musicians Version of 1997 Large Format
7. "Chronicles of Nin”. Reduced format, version May 2001
8. "Chronicles of Nin". Final Version, January 2002
9. Novel, "Eiffel Tower Gang" 2nd Revision Loose Sheets
10. "Eiffel Tower Gang" Final revision, version of Dec. 13, 2001
11. "Chronicles of Nin" Revision December 13, 2001
12. The Cannes Festival IT May, 1970
13. Eiffel Tower Gang - Loose revision sheets
14. "Amplitude of the Cosmos" Galleys from XLibris
15. Harvest of Chains, Novel. Revision of Chapter I.
boxes 49-50
1. Travel Journal, October 2001 St. Louis/Chicago
2. AMS Conference Jan 17-20, 2000 Washington, DC. Back portion has science study and research.
3. Mathematics Research "Red Journal" Indexed April 2001
4. Study of Symplectic Geometry "Green Journal" July 2001
5. Research Journal December 2000 Indexed
6. Study and Research May 2002 Indexed
7. Research Journal February 2002 Indexed
8. General Journal November 2001
9. Schedules Notebooks April-October 2002
10. Winter Folder, March 2000
boxes 50-51
1. Meal Ticket I, II, III First Revision
2. Meal Ticket I, II, III Second Revision
3. Ferment XVI#3 - Third Revision
4. Draft pages, Brahmagupta I
5. Brahmagupta I - Second Revision
6. Mousetrap Tech, essay of 1980, revised for website 2002
7. New York City Antiwar movement, retranslated and revised from article in "Les Temps Modernes" 1972; put on website August 2002
8. Notes on the 'Quantum Limits to the Second Law' Conference, University of San Diego, July-August 2002
9. Ferment XV#7 Jan Mycielski article, updating of Cripple Factor. Intermediate camera copy.
10. Ferment XV#7 Source materials and background notes
11. Background articles for review of Russell Biography
12. FXV#6 Science Catalogue. Revision sheets
13. Source materials for Ferment XV#3
14. Brahmagupta I. The First Problem Set October 2002
boxes 51-52
(A.) Computation Notebooks:
1. September 18th, 2002
2. Hypatia Problems, January 2003
3. Sketches 10/29/02
4. August 24, 2002
5. November 5,2001
6. October 2002 - February 2003
7. January 29, 2003
(B) Legal Steno Pads: Computations
(C) Antigroups Paper Oct 12, 2002
Transcription/ Revision
Original paper of June, 1978
(D) Revision for website of:
Topological Paradoxes of Time Measurement
(E) Revision sheets for Problem Books:
1. Brahmagupta II
2. Hipparchus I Dec 27, 2002
3. Hipparchus I Sketches January 2003
4. Vive La Differance I Draft, March 2003
5. Vive La Differance I Editorial Revision March 2003
6. Arithmetic Progression Problem Dec 4, 2002
7. Relativity Problem: Brahma I, Hipparchus I
8. Ferment Press copies:
Brahmagupta I
Brahmagupta II
Hipparchus I
Vive I
boxes 52-54
1. Botstein "Pardon " letter, and response
2. Ainay-le-Chateau Original typescript
3. Website Film Reviews, March-May 2003
4. Ferment XVI#7, #11 First revision sheets
5. Ferment XVI, #4, #5 Second Revision sheets
6. Ferment XVI # 7 Second Revision Sheets
7. Ferment XVI#7 Penultimate version
8. Ferment XVI#8 Final Draft. Editorial Revision
9. Ferment XVI#6 Penultimate Version
10. Ferment Mailing List 2002-2003; Reading List, January 2003
11. Harvest of Chains, Novel. Typescript of 1989
12. Ferment XVI#11 2nd Revision
13. Ferment XVI#11 3rd Revision
14. Ainay-le-Chateau. Revision for website
15. Schedules Notebook Oct. 9, 02 - May 1, 03
16. Meal Ticket, Novel: Madhouse episode Ferment XVI#8. First Revision.
17. Ferment XVI#12 Meal Ticket, Final Chapter, Revisions
18. Ferment Mailing List January 2003
boxes 54-55
1. Quest of the Absolute, Short Story, Revision 11/2003
2. MIT Information Desk, Play, Original Mss of 1965
3. Sam the Messiah Man, Short Story, Performance Script, 2000-2004
4. Chomsky/Schenker Essay, Revision Pages
5. Chomsky/Schenker, Second Revision
6. Editorials from Ferment Magazine.Org, Revisions 11/2004
7. Rehabilitation, Playscript - 1976 Version
8. Ferment XVII#5, First Revision
9. Ferment XVI#12 "Meal Ticket" Finale. Revision Pages
10. Meal Ticket, Novel. Appendices, Unrevised
11. Ferment XVII#1 Three Book Reviews: all revisions
12. Ferment XVII#2 "Shock and Awe" Draft Version
13. Ferment XVII#3 "Blues for Christian Herman" reprint with editing of Ferment VI 9/13/87
14. Ferment XVII#3 First Revision
15. Ferment XVII #8:"Little Eyolf" Revision Pages
16. Little Eyolf. Essay September 2004
17. Little Eyolf: Notes
18. Little Eyolf: Commentaries
19. Ferment 2003: Mailing Lists.
boxes 55-56
1. Notes on the Democratic National Convention, July 25-29, 2004
2. Ferment XVII#5 Second Revision
3. Ferment XVII#4 "Biodefense" Revision Pages
4. Time and the Maya. Essay. Original pages, 1963
5. Quest for Grothendieck -Original typescript. Part I, June 1969
6. Life and Life Energy. Version 2004. Chap 1 Revision Pages
7. Life and Life Energy. Version 2004. Chap 2 Revision Pages
8. Life and Life Energy. Version 2004. Chap 3 Revision Pages
9. Life and Life Energy. Version 2004. Chap 3 Revision Pages
10. Life and Life Energy. Version 2004. Chap 3 Revision Pages
11. Life and Life Energy. Version 2004. Chap 4 Revision Pages
12. Life and Life Energy. Version 2004. Chap 4 Revision Pages
13. Associative Harmony. Text. Version of 2004
14. Vive La Difference II: Emilie du Chatelet: Research, Notes, Revision Pages
boxes 56-58
1. Travel Journal, Summer 2003
2. Journal, August 2003
3. Journal, April 3, 2004
4. Notebooks, Democratic National Convention, Republican National Convention, 2004
5. Research Notebook for series "Bush/Cheney Assault on Science"
6. Math Research Notebook, October 2003
7. Math Studies Notebook, July-December 2004
8. Research Notebook December 2003
9. Publication Planning Journal, April 19, 2000
boxes 58-59
1. Notes and various revisions of review of Roger Penrose’s “Road to Reality”
2. Revision pages: Paris travelogue 2005
3. Quantum Question Theory paper May 31, 2005
4. Revision pages for Quantum Question Theory
5. Einstein Centennial Symposium article, revision of 2005
6. Revision pages for Einstein Centennial Symposium article
7. Mathematics Manual, first draft
8. History of North End Housing Initiative Feb 24, 05
9. Relativity on 2-Manifolds, revision pages, Feb 22, 05
10. “College President’s Speech” Editorial, December 2004
11. Isostructuralism article, revisions December 10, 2004
12. (a) Restricted Collision Theorem (b) General Collision Theorem (c) Fibre Bundles lecture (d) Trains and Fly (e) Lie Algebras and Lie Groups – December 2005
13. General Collision Theorem, revision pages December 2004
14. Non-Metrizable Time. First revision December 7th 2005
15. Non-Metrizable Time, second revision December 14 05
16. Non-Metrizable Time, finished article
17. Sam the Messiah Man, recitation script December 2004
18. Life and Life Energy 6, revision pages
19. Story “A Child is Born”, 2 revisions
20. Arles Travelogue Revision, November 2005
21. Einstein Centennial Symposium. Draft of lecture notes 10/27/05
22. Einstein Centennial Symposium, lecture notes Nov-Dec 2005
23. Review of Penrose “Road to Reality”, prepared for publication by the Mathematical Intelligencer (1st, 2nd and 3rd revisions)
24. Travel Notes, Montpellier March 23-27 2005
25. Life and Life Energy 5, revision notes
26. Aix en Provence travelogue, 2005, first revision
boxes 59-60
(1) Copies of booklets of Ferment Press, first editions
(2) Letters and Postcards to family 1970-2000+
(3) “Philadelphia Literary Intelligencer” - Feb 20,1961
(4) Report Cards
box 61
(1) Boston/Cambridge Notebook, July/August 2005
(2) Science Notebook 2003
(3) Planning notebook, travels in France Feb 21, 2005
(4) Math/Science Notebook Jan 8th 2005
(5) Provence Notebook March 2, 2005
(6) Schedules Notebook June 03 – May 04
(7) Journal, July 2004-August 2005
(8) Travel Journal Jan 8,2004 – April 14, 2005
boxes 62-63
(1) Harvest of Chains revision pages Chapter 3
(2) Harvest of Chains revision pages Chapter 2
(3) Lamentation for Rachel Corrie April 2006
(4) Rachel Corrie – 1st revision
(5) Rachel Corrie – 2nd revision
(6) Rachel Corrie – background materials
(7) 3 playscript of Hamlet, filled with marginalia
(8) Photocopy of original Mss of “Getting That Meal Ticket” made by Rene Julliard in 1971
(9) Harvest of Chains – revision pages, Chapter 7
(10) Harvest of Chains, Chapter 7th, second revision
(11) “MIT Information Desk” 1-Act Play, original 1964 typescript
(12) “Rehabilitation” 4 Act Play, 1st and 2nd revisions
(13) “Street Musician in France” English typescript of article published in Les Temps Modernes 1970
(14) Harvest of Chains Chapter 7, 3rd revision
(15) Kangaroo That Wanted To Sing, Children’s Play Version of 1987
(16) Commerce and Illusions – Version of 1969, Film Script
(17) Short, unedited scripts
(a) Woman of the Mountains, play 1959
(b) Feedback Box film script 1970
(18) El Pessebre, incomplete novel 5 Chapters
boxes 63-65
(1) Ferment V, reduced
(2) Ferment IX
(3) Ferment VII
(4) Ferment VIII
(5) Ferment X
(6) Ferment VI
Ferment IV #1 (Blues for Christian Hermann)
Psychotherapy Series XI #8, 9, 10 XII#3
Miscellaneous Issues, Vols. I to IV
boxes 65-67
boxes 67-68
(1) Original Camera Copy “Legends of Broken Hearts”
Cover, Two Nervous Breakdown Stories
(2) Photocopies of Stories
(i) Tales of Frustrated Musicians
(ii) Cynical Xmas Stories
(iii) Alienism
(iv) Syphilization and its Discontents
(v) Meal Ticket, Chapter 5
(vi) Revelation of Dr. Snew
(vii) The Drugstore
(viii) Parisian Still-Lifes
(3) Chomsky’s Linguistics Exposed, Camera Copy
(4) Background Notebook for articles on John Nash
(5) Photocopies 2: Stories
(i) Night of the Gluon
(ii) Bus Paradox
(iii) Monaco
(iv) GGR11
(6) Program of J Basinger Milton Marathon at 3 Rivers College, with notice of reading of “Milton and Music”
(7) Hungary Summer 1999; Cards and paraphernalia
(8) Vive La Difference 2: Emilie de Chatelet
(9) GRG11 article, revision 5/98
(10) Ferment XIV #10 Pierrefonds, large format
(11) FermentXIV#11 Pierrefonds 2
(12) Notebook, Ferment IX March 1995
(13) Background articles for the Psychotherapy series
Ferment XI# 8, 10, XII#3
(14) Background materials for “JS Bach and the Reformation”
boxes 69-70
(1) New Universe Weekly, Vol. II: Camera Copies
(2) Harvest of Chains, revisions 200607:
Chapters 4 -6, 8, 9, 11
(3) Journal Notes December 1, 2002
(4) Memoir, with correspondence with Carol Lisker August 2006
(5) Scotland Journals, Notes, Travelogue Episodes, together with abridgement for Russell Library lecture February 24,07
(6) Duchesse d’ Antan; Episodes 1 -6
(7) Journals:
(1) Scotland, August 24-September 8
(2) Planning Journal
(8) Texts revised for Upload to Ferment Magazine, Scotland articles
(9) Set Theory and Form, January 2007 Revision Pages
(10) Scotland, miscellaneous items
(11) Finances Pocket Notebook
(12) Diskettes, Sciences 1997-2004
(13) Small Journal June 2001-Jan 2002 Includes notes made during the week after the World Trade Center disaster, with a visit to NYC.
boxes 70-72
Documents, tenure as president of the North End Action Team, 1996-2000
boxes 72-73
1. Research Notebook July 20,2006 Indexed
2. Research Notebook March 20, 2007, working out of material on Double Intersection Geometry
3. Research Notebook, January 20,2007 Indexed
4. Journal, September 4, 2005
5. Schedules May 29,2005 to March 17, 2007
6. Outlets and Income Notebook Nov 11, 2005-April 2007
7. Translation Pages of collection of essays by Rene Thom, “Predire N’est Pas Expliquer” Chapters 1, 2, 3
boxes 73-75
(1) Script of Power Point presentation March 2007 at the Russell Library, “Roaming California”
(2) Harvest of Chains revisions Chapters 1 through 16
(3) Contents Outline, Ferment Magazine April 30,2007
(4) Earlier Version “Bohemian Card”
(5) Notes for talk on trip to France, 2005, Russell Library lecture
(6) Street Musician in France; Pierrefonds. English language texts of the Temps Modernes articles
(7) Jan 2003. Scanned sheets of the Matrix Poems for Website
(8) Sam the Messiah Man Dec 04 version, Dec 07 version
(9) D.G. Rossetti talk, Buttonwood Tree, September 4,1997
(10) Drawings, Berkeley 1984-87
(11) “Kwantum Fyld Thyry” Research, Nov 27,07 Indexed
(12) Literary workbook Nov 12, 2005 – Indexed
(13) Various published items:
“Mismeasurement of Pi” Journal of Irreproducible Results March/April 1998
(14) Commonweal Interview, Richard Alleva Feb 9,2001
(15) Address Books
boxes 75-76
(1) Lecture on Projective Constructs, with 3 transparencies, Nyerigyhaza Hungary 1999
(2) Report on Hungary conference
(3) Transparencies of report on Hungary conference
(4) Bus Paradox, satiric essay, upgraded Jan 2004
(5) “Theoretical Foundations of Foundation Theory” A Study in Meta-Geometry. Large Format
(6) Vector Fields. Notes for seminar in the Wesleyan Physics Department April 20, 2005
(7) Theory Seminar April 14, 2006
(8) Big Bang Moment Festival
Poster, Booklet and Button May 5 1977
(9) Shepherds Pi – A collection of mathematics games and puzzles. 1978
(10) Generalized Ordinals Reduced Version 1981
(11) Grothendieck Project, Correspondence
E-Mails
(12) Galilean Relativity and Inertial Groups Oct 5, 05
(13) Linear Chaos Machine 1987
(14) Lecture Notes, for Einstein Centennial Symposium talk October 27, 2005
(15) Dirac Equation seminar, lecture notes April 13, 2007
(16) Basis Expansions 1969
(17) Observations on Conical Geometry 1969
(18) Talk in Wes Physics Dept Euclidean Time and Relativity
(19) On Counter-Intuitive Time USD QLSL2 2002
(20) Lecture Notes “Causal Algebras” WES Student Physics Society 1993
(21) Non-Linear Algebra, Dynamical Systems I and II
(22) Quantum Question Theory. Notes
(23) Projective Constructs and Concepts
(24) Einstein Centennial Symposium. The original article in Les Temps Modernes
(25) Dissonant Functions. Number Theory paper
(26) Associative Harmony IRCAM Talk March 2005
(27) Paper on Fixed Point Theorems
(28) Fund Appeal Letter February 2, 2008
(29) Hamlet’s Psychiatrist, various revisions 2008
(30) Research Notebook April 13, 2007
boxes 76-77
(1) Some watercolors of Sara Starekow Lisker
(2) PR Folder March 1995
(3) Photo Album
(4) Envelopes of photos, going back to 1970’s
boxes 77-78
(1) December 19, 2008 Editorial 10 of the new series of editorials “Soloists and Lost Geniuses”
(2) Hysteria and Enlightenment Chapters 1 and 2 Revision pages
(3) Second revision pages, Chapter 1, Hysteria and Enlightenment
(4) Omar Khayyam Problem Book
(a) Original Draft
(b) First revision
(c) Second revision
(5) Revision pages, abridged version of Quest for Grothendieck, July 2008
(6) Hamlet’s Psychiatrist, corrections March 10, 2008
(7) Hamlet’s Psychiatrist script, with corrections March 22,08
(8) Hamlet’s Psychiatrist, more corrections March 2008
(9) Notes for the Isaac Newton, Great Books seminar at the Russell Library June 2, 2008
(10) “Ordinal Maps” Ordinal Arithmetic and Dynamic Systems February 5, 2008
(11) Ordinal Maps, Finished version May 30, 2008
(12) Hamlet’s Psychiatrist, final proof-reading May 27, 2008
(13) Planning Sheets, European trop Sept-Oct 2008
(14) Ordinal Maps Version of May 30, 2008
(15) Editorial, July 8th 08 Hanging Out at Universities
(16) Omar Khayyam Problem Book; 3rd Revision November 20th, 2008
(17) Research Journal, May 2003 Indexed
(18) First Version of 50 Problems Anthology (“26 Problems”) November 30, 2008
(19) 50 Problem Anthology 2nd Draft December 7, 2008
(20) Solution Sets for Problem Anthology Revisions Dec 8, 08
(21) Schedules, Log Book June 1,03 – May, 05
(22) Journal Aix en Provence Sept 2008; in reverse direction, Paris Journal, October 2008
(23) An old address book from 1988
boxes 78-79
(1) Power Point text Russell Library Travelogue Europe Sept07 – January 2008; April 19, 08
(2) Revisions of PPT text of Travelogue
(3) Copy of translation of essays of Rene Thom “Predire n’est pas Expliquer” 2008
(4) Proof reading of travelogue for upload to Ferment Magazine
(5) Editing Travelogue text
(6) Travel Notes compiled from E-Mail messages
(7) Travelogue Draft 1, Part 1
(8) Editorial April 6, 2008 “Manipulating the 2-Party System”
(9) Editing Power Point of Travelogue March 25
(10) Journal, Travel Summer 2007
(11) Poetry, “Kaleidoscope: Chapbook 1987
(12) Early Poetry 1958-60
(13) Miscellaneous Poetry Sketches
(14) Editorial, French writers of the 30’s
(15) Lamentation for Rachel Corrie June 26, 2008
(16) “Checkmarks,” European Notebook Sept 07-Jan 09
(17) “Ideas” Journal from the Poincare Institute October 15,07
boxes 79-80
(1) Math Research Computation Book, subtitled “Relativity for the General Public” January 2005 section; February 2009 section. Indexed
(2) Mesmer/Marie-Therese von Paradis (MMT) 8: “The Music Lesson” 4 revisions
(3) MMT 7 “The Dream Sonata” Copies and Revisions
(4) Editorials and Statistics, February 2009
(5) Miscellaneous Papers, 2004
(6) MMT 9: “The Royal Astronomer”, revisions 1 and 3
(7) “El Pessebre”, Chapter 2, revision pages and old outlines
(8) Mathematics Research Journal October 2004 Indexed
(9) Schedules Journal
(a) June 2006: Planning Scotland journey
(b) March 2007-April 2009
(10) Gallery of Photographs ages 2-70. Package sent by sister, Carol Kennedy, on December 8th
(11) “MMT 8”: The Music Lesson, 4th and 5th revisions
(12) Editorial of April 13
(13) Irreversible motion in Space, a thought experiment April 13, 2009
(14) Travel Notebooks and Journals: August-November 2008
(15) MMT 5, 6, 7: Revision Pages
boxes 80-82
(1) Hysteria and Enlightenment, Chapters 1 and 2 (Mesmer / Marie-Therese von Paradis) Revised Version of December 2008
(2) MMT 1 Revisions
(3) MMT 3 Revisions
(4) MMT 4 Revisions
(5) Texts for talks given at the University of Illinois in Chicago, February 2009, with revisions
(6) Sketches for a detective story, Cambridge Mass, 1964
(7) Notebook, San Diego July 18,2002
(8) Poetry Experimental Notebook, October 2008
(9) “El Pessebre” Pages 1-36, first revision November 2008 To Be Continued January 21
(10) El Pessebre Chapters 1 and 2 (Original typescript of 1979)
(11) Journal, June 2008 to January 2009 Indexed
(12) MMT 5 - proof-reading revisions
(13) March 2008 Mathematics Research Journal Indexed
(14) May 2008 Mathematics Research Journal Indexed
(15) Math and Science Journal PENROSE REVIEW July 2005 Indexed
(16) June 2005 Math Research Journal "Math Manual Problem Sets"
(17) Tindy Agaba's Thesis
(18) El Pessebre Revision pages May 09 Chapters 2-8
boxes 82-83
(1) Notes for a paper "General Relativity and Collisions" hand-written
(2) Grand Plan, August 2002. Review with marginalia December 2009
(3) El Pessebre; original text of 1979 pages 43-73
(4) El Pessebre, first revision December 29th, 2009: City Hall episode
(5) Perpignan, August 2009: travel notes Typescript
(6) Perpignan, text for upload on Ferment Magazine December 22
(7) Sketches Notebook, October 3rd, 2008. Taken on European trip Aug-Oct 2009
(8) Editorial, June 10, 2009
(9) Mesmer/Marie-Therese Finale, Chapter 12 (July 10, 2009)
(10) Journal, June 08- Jan 09: Notes for a "kaleidoscopic novel" of periods lived in Cambridge, Mass.
(11) Mesmer-Marie Therese, Notes
(12) El Pessebre: From "Oratorio" to "Baker/Montoya"
(13) Perpignan Travelogue, 1st revision
(14) Poems, transcribed and sent to Emma Thompson, every Thursday for one year (April 26, 2006)
(15) El Pessebre, Transcription Part II: Pages 1-90
(16) Travelogue, England 2009 Revisions December 5, 2009
(17) Notebook, July 20, 2009 (not indexed)
(18) June 2008: Cambridge/Boston notebook
(19) Travelogue, Europe 2009: First revision
(20) Ireland Travelogue - 2nd revision
(21) Budget Journal January 2007 to January 2008
(22) Road Journal, June/August 2007 (written in both directions)
(23) MMT 11 - First revision June 2009
(24) Editorials, June 17th, 2009
(25) El Pessebre Chapter 12 May 16, 2009
(26) Essay for 75th anniversary party of John Basinger
(27) El Pessebre, Chapters 6-11, First revision
(28) El Pessebre Chapters 1-5 Second revision
(29) MMT 10 "The Fantastic Garden" Revisions of May 19, 2009
(30) Editorial May 22, 09: Israel/Palestine
(31) El Pessebre 1st revision Chapter 1
(32) John Basinger tribute, editing
boxes 83-84
boxes 84-85
boxes 85-86
boxes 86-87
boxes 87-89
boxes 89-90
boxes 90-91
boxes 91-92
boxes 92-94
boxes 94-95
boxes 95-96
boxes 96-97
boxes 98-99
boxes 99-100
This collection consists of James O. Longstreet's personal diary from the year 1856. The diary covers the second semester of his junior year at Wesleyan, as well as the first semester of his senior year. Many events are recorded in the diary, including the 1856 presidential election and the founding of the Middletown chapter of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. Other notable subjects discussed in the manuscript include the caning of Charles Sumner on the U.S. Senate floor, President Buchanan's interest in the annexation of Cuba, Methodist missionaries in Fiji, abolitionism, temperance, the Mystical Seven, Psi Upsilon, the Eclectic Society, and other Wesleyan activities and organizations.
The diary begins in North Guilford, CT, where Longstreet was employed as a schoolteacher for the winter break. While serving as a teacher, he participated in the conversion to Methodism of several individuals, including Carrie and Evan Bartlett, Charles Fowler, Alden Fowler, Dwight Hall, Mary Ann Norton, Mary Chittenden and Cynthia Scranton. Longstreet's strong Methodist faith is in evidence throughout the diary. During the winter of 1856, he began leading prayer meetings in his schoolroom to the consternation of some local religious leaders, who appear to have viewed him as competition. On January 8, the diary records Longstreet's budding affection for one of his students, Miss Lois Dudley, whom he describes as so smart. Longstreet's school was kept in working order with the help of several friends from the neighborhood of North Guilford, including students of his and participants in his prayer meetings, notably Anson Fowler and Edwin Bartlett. The arrival in mid-January of Mr. Dutton, another Methodist preacher, seems to have disturbed Longstreet as Dutton would eventually take the meetings out of (his) hands, according Longstreet's December 31 year-in-review entry. Dutton would move into the parsonage and take Longstreet's place as preacher.
On January 18, Longstreet describes the conversion of Carrie Bartlett, a girl who he will counsel for much of the remainder of the year on matters of faith. On January 31, he notes that Fowler hinted strange against his prayer meetings in the school building. The opposition voiced by Fowler made him feel a little bad. On February 3, Fowler again hinted at me for doing meetings in the schoolhouse but he may hint on and it will do no good. In mid-February, a property dispute appears to have arisen between Longstreet and a man named Tobey. On February 13, he quips Oh! Tobey, what a liar! The debate is further explicated on February 16, when Longstreet notes that Tobey is currently in possession of goods formerly belonging to a Mr. Britton. Those goods appear to have been claimed by both Tobey and Longstreet, although Longstreet repeatedly calls Tobey a liar. Meanwhile, Longstreet's teaching job was nearing its end. He remained in North Guilford for two weeks after his engagement was over. On March 9, he heard a temperance lecture from a Mr. Cue which he described as in most respects the most absurd thing I ever heard. His issues with Mr. Dutton continued, and on March 12 the girls were annoyed that Dutton gave Longstreet no chance to speak at the meeting. Anson Fowler, Edwin Bartlett, and Charles Fowler helped Longstreet to plan the exhibition for the end of school, which went well except some of the singing on March 19. On that date, he received the gift of a beautiful gold pencil and pen from a student named Augusta. His school ended on March 20, and he departed for Middletown CT and college on March 22.
Once at college, Longstreet attended the first of many meetings of the Mystical Seven secret society. He took classes including Mineralogy and Mechanics. During this time and afterward, he would often spend evenings at the home of Brother Fox, apparently a popular hangout for students at the time. On March 31, Longstreet went to Mr. Tobey's store to resolve their dispute over Mr. Britton's goods. Tobey agreed to divide Britton's yard or else sell his half to Longstreet for $80. After carefully examining the goods, including 75-100 good books, he determined that the goods would sell for 70-80 dollars and determined to offer Tobey 20 dollars for his half of the goods. On April 7, he concluded a deal to purchase the other half of the goods from Tobey at a price of $38. That way if they sell well, I will get my pay. In May, classes continued including German and Logic. On May 29, Longstreet mentions the health situation of Charles Sumner, the recently caned Republican abolitionist Senator, stating that he is worse.
On June 6, Longstreet appears to have received marks. Made 5 in Logic and German and 4 in Geology, he wrote. Throughout his diary, Longstreet questions the strength of his faith, including on June 7 when he worries that he is too lifeless in (his) religion, tho still trusting with trembling.
On June 21, he mentions attending a Republican meeting. I am determined to get up a platform, he reports. On June 22, he notes that Carrie Bartlett is discouraged trying to be a Christian, a situation she seems to find herself in repeatedly. On June 25 he reports that the local Republican club has adopted the constitution that we drew up. More political news follows, with a grand Democratic splurge on July 17. Fremont men [including Longstreet] cheered after meeting adjourned. He describes how some Democrats, headed by Putnam, made [Brother] Fox run for his life. He hid in Mc. Donough. On July 21, he commenced reading Frederick Douglass. I like it well.
The diary describes the founding of the Middletown chapter of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. On July 23, Longstreet's friend Powers (probably Orville Watson Powers, class of 1856) contacted him because his society, known as the Lebanians, wanted to become a chapter of ΑΔΦ and he wants me to recommend his society to Head. Also on that date fire broke out in the college barn. Buddington's horse was burned. Longstreet wrote the recommendation letter for Powers on July 24. On August 1, Longstreet writes, This morn have learned that the Betrians and [Powers' group] have united and come out ΑΔΦ!!!
On August 7 was commencement, and in possibly the first recorded instance of its kind at Wesleyan, Carr was rejected by ΑΔΦ and feels dreadfully. After commencement, Longstreet visited family in New York. On September 4, he returned to school. September 9, Longstreet was elected president of the Missionary Lyceum. I don't like the responsibility of the office, he wrote. Longstreet was involved actively in cultivating new members for the Mystical Seven during this period, including Wardell, Edson and Gould. Competition between the societies (Longstreet mentions Mystical Seven, Chi Psi, Eclectic, Alpha Delta Phi and Psi Upsilon) was sharp. October 7 he had tea with Professor Van Vleck. On October 9, he and Lois, Ella, Mary E.C., Katy D., Carrie, Mary B., Anson, Edwin, Harrison and Fayette went to the state fair in New Haven.
On October 17, Longstreet reports that Buchanan had won the presidential election. According to Longstreet, . . . the country will go to the Devil. He showed great interest and involvement in the Republican cause, even after John C. Fremont's electoral defeat. His diary records the widespread interest in the election. For example, when he went for dinner at his friend Mr. Blake's house on November 5, he reported that, They are very much excited about the election. They think old Buck (Buchanan) will make slaves of us all. On November 11, Longstreet was hired to teach school in North Branford, CT, for the winter. On a few occasions, most recently on December 30, 1856, he reported that he was reading about Methodist missionary work amongst the Feejies (Fijians).
Of Interest:
Several Wesleyan faculty appear repeatedly in the diary, including Professor True, Professor Johnson, Prof. Huber in German, Professor Lindsay who preaches a good sermon, and Professor Van Vleck.
Longstreet often worried about his health. February 14 he complained of back pains, while on March 2nd it was pain in the back and shoulders. June 11, he was in bed all day with headache. June 13, he remained in bed but was feeling better. December 4, looseness of bowels sent him with haste to the barnyard several times during the night. On December 20, he said Don't feel well. Am conscious I am going down. Oh God if consistent give me good health. He complained of headache and general sickness.
On February 12, Longstreet recorded sending a letter to the Honorable J. Longstreet, possibly his father's name. His mother's name is not mentioned.
Longstreet's Year in Review
James O. Longstreet's diary in unusual, in that it contains a sort of year in review section in which he reflects on his experiences in 1856. The following is a full transcription of this section. The underlines (and grammatical irregularities) are Longstreet's own. This section is followed, in the manuscript, by Longstreet's personal financial accounts.
12/31/1856 (Wednesday)
The school today has been very noisy and most tired me out. Fine winter weather tho just at night it was snowing some. Lydia, Mr. Chidsey's daughter has gone to a party. Eve Fayette called at my room. This day closes up the year 1856. It is with rather sober feelings that I look over the past year and into the new one just at hand. When this year came in I was at North Guilford teaching the pleasantest school I ever expect to have. Soon after the commencement of the year, Lois R. Dudley, a young lady of about 16 came into my school. Of her more anow. When 1856 came to us I was having good times in school and had begun to hold religious meetings in school room and they were interesting. Anson Fowler and I did most all the work but as the winter went on the interest increased. We had after a time a prayer meeting and a class meeting every week. In the course of the winter Edwin Bartlett, Charles Fowler, Alden Fowler, Dwight Hall, Carrie Bartlett, Mary Ann Norton, Mary Chittenden and Cynthia Scranton gave good evidence of conversion and Fayette, Augusta and Ada Rassiter, Myrta Heall, George Hall, Mary Bartlett, Louise Norton and Ella Dudley were deeply interested until Mr. Dutton came and took the meetings out of my hands, then all interest died out. I was greatly opposed by both churches and when Mr. Dutton came I had nothing to see to except the class meetings which I kept. Where all these are tonight is more than I can tell. I fear only a very few are trying to be Christians. Oh God save them going to perdition.
My school closed March 20th. Eve before, had exhibition which went off well. 28 of my scholars presented me a beautiful gold pen and pencil which I now prize very highly. Parted with my school in tears and on March 22nd went to Middletown. Worked hard 'til end of term, passed examinations and spent one week of vacation visiting North Guilford. Went back to college and in July came again for a few days. Passed examinations at the end of the year and became a senior. Went home. Stayed 3 weeks. Bought for sisters a Melodian (cost $90). Leave home with tears and come back to college. During fall made several fruitless attempts to get a school for the winter and at last determined to go home. Packed my trunk and got excused from college November 10th. Came to North Guilford to make short visit and while there had offer of district school in North Branford at $35 and found per month of 20 days each and I took it. So here I am at the close of the year teaching within four miles of where I was one year ago. This year which is just leaving has been in some respects the best of my life and will be long remembered. Last winter was a bright page in my history. But what is my present situation, prospects and c.? Not as good as I could wish. My school is too large and by no means a pleasant one. My boarding place is worse than the school. The board is the worst I have ever had in my life and if I could move my quarters I would do it suddenly. My room is comfortable and my bed good. I now expect to preach at North Madison every other Sunday during the winter. I hope God will use me for accomplishing some little good. My health is not good. I have had several poor days this winter, and feel that I am going downhill. I work pretty hard and have poor fare and grow poor under it. I hope and pray for health, for if that leaves me, I am gone for I have nothing to live upon, much less to pay my debts with.
I have been dreaming for some months about getting married. Not that I wish a wife now, but I would like some Yankee girl in about two years. I have been on the look out for some time but have seen none that quite suit me. I want a good, pious girl, well educated and moderately handsome and a good singer and a neat housekeeper. For quite a while I have had Lois in my mind and I cannot get her out, though I know in all reason she can never be my wife. She is smart enough and good enough and her singing will do and I am sure that she is neat and she is pretty good looking and has a good figure; but am some six years the older, she has not yet sufficient education, though she might improve that before I should want her, and she has red hair. These are some objections on my part and no doubt on her part there are many more, so that if she was alright it might do me no good. She is a blessed good girl and I shall not only keep alive our acquaintance but push it further, but must do it cautiously. At present I think more of her than all the other girls in the world but shall not allow the back part of my head to run away with me. I have prayed and continue to pray, Oh God, direct me in so important a matter as the selection of a wife. Well here I am truly just on the brink of the old year's grave. In looking over my life for the past year I can see some things which I did and am now sorry for but my fault has been not so much in positive evil acts as in living at too great a distance from God. I have not been spiritual enough through this whole year. I think on the whole I have improved in some respects. I think I have a more settled Christian character than I had one year ago but am not more alive. Will I do better for the future? I am almost afraid to promise, for I see no reason to think I shall keep it any better than I have kept others. But Lord if thou will assist me to keep my promise I will agree to live nearer thee.
Another year has gone and I am one year nearer my grave. I have one year less in which to do good. Oh, how swiftly does time move on. Soon my work will be ended, or at least my time for work and I shall be in the presence of my judge. Oh God, help me to live so that I can give up my account with joy. Show me my duty oh Lord that I may do it. Will thou have me to preach thy gospel? Prepare me for the great work and I will go forth. My trust in God tonight it strong. I give my all into his hands and firmly believe that he will direct my ways. Tonight I am comfortable and happy. Where will I be in one year from this night? Perhaps in eternity. Oh Lord thou alone canst tell, prepare me for what is before me. Old year I sigh to bid you adieu. 1857 may be as pleasant, but thy face is familiar. Thy name I have learned to love, and what the next day may bring no mortal knows. I am almost afraid to trust it, but thou canst no long stay so good bye, old year, good bye. Thou hast been my friend, and in thy new made grave I drop a tear. Well little book I have about done with thee. Thy page will tell truthfully the most of my history for the past year. Thou has been willing to receive my sorrows and trials as well as my joys, and in after time I will love to hear the stories that thou will tell of my course through the year 1856. Little book I am now to place you among my old friends. Good bye.
The Long Lane Photographs Collection includes copies of historical photographs (the originals are held in the Connecticut State Library), photographs of Long Lane buildings, and digital photographs of the interiors of buildings prior to demolition. Wesleyan commissioned Nancy Ottmann Albert to take the photographs.
Note: Interiors of Long Lane buildings before demolition.
The collection involves research on African American soldiers who were court martialed, found guilty and executed while they served in World War II. Sources include court martial documents, such as transcripts and testimonies, in addition to Long's personal research materials.
The collection is organized alphabetically by last name of the soldier(s) implicated in the court martial. Multiple folders related to the same court martial are arranged chronologically.
This collection documents state and federal abortion laws and court cases in the United States, spanning 1967 to 1973. It contains state and federal abortion litigation case files, documents, and correspondence; materials of the James Madison Institute; research files on aspects of abortion law, including studies of the Constitution and state laws on rights of the fetus; and publications regarding abortion and abortion laws including newspaper clippings about court cases.
The collection is organized into six series: Abortion Cases, Miscellaneous Correspondence, Lucas Papers, Miscellaneous Cases, Research, and Publications. The bulk of the material is contained within the first series on Abortion Cases, in which the materials are arranged by state, and then chronologically within each state.
Ms. Toby Singer, Wesleyan class of 1974, has undertaken the organization, the boxing and the description of these papers. The work was done in connection with a senior thesis project which took changes in abortion law as its subject. The description of Series and the Container List that follow are entirely the work of Ms. Singer.
Files of cases brought before state and federal courts including litigation papers and correspondence, arranged by state and chronologically within each state.
Correspondence which cannot be filed within specific cases, arranged chronologically
Papers concerning Roy Lucas including tapes of conversations, materials of the James Madison Institute and other miscellaneous material.
Files from cases which were sent separately from the Abortion Cases and at a later time, arranged alphabetically.
Files of research about aspects of abortion laws, including studies of the Constitution and state laws regarding the rights of the fetus.
Copies of articles about abortion and abortion laws, including newspaper clippings about court cases, arranged chronologically.
The Journal of a Trip to Middletown, 1841 was written from June 29 to July 3, 1841, by William P. Lyon. It mostly describes Lyon's time in Middletown, Connecticut, but the journal also briefly describes his time in New York City. Throughout the diary Lyon mentions many new acquaintances from Wesleyan University, and dwells heavily on President Nathan Bangs, Professor Harvey B. Lane, Professor John Johnston, Professor Augustus W. Smith, Professor William M. Willett, Professor Jacob F. Huber, as well as many of their ladies. Lyon also writes about his family and how lonely he feels when apart from his wife, Harriet, and son, Roscoe. Lyon's main reason for writing this journal was to record his journey to Wesleyan, but more specifically to detail the final examinations of the Wesleyan student body. Although Wesleyan University exams are the main topics of this diary, Lyon also describes the Oriental Society at Professor Willett's house and his private school, the Irving Institute. This is a photocopy of the original diary which was handwritten in English and contained 47 pages.
The diary begins on June 29, 1841, as the Lyon family departed from their home on the Columbus steamer from Tarrytown, New York, destined for New York City. On board the couple had a lengthy argument about the salary of the recently appointed Methodist pastor, Reverend Abm. Francis, and how it was insufficient for even the most meager lifestyle. Lyon concluded the argument with hopes that his case would be supported at the Quarterly Conference in August. After reaching the city, the family rode to a Mr. Leder's home where they decided to stay the night. During the evening, Lyon remarked on his son's infatuation with the scriptures after his son Roscoe thank God upon seeing an alarmed fire engine go by.
In the morning (June 30), Lyon left his family behind as he traveled by the Gladiator steamer towards New Haven, Connecticut. On board he met several acquaintances also bound for Wesleyan University, including Rev. H. Chase and the two brothers Gabriel P. Disosway and Cornelius R. Disosway. After arriving in New Haven, Lyon took an hourlong train ride to Meriden, followed by a two hour coach ride to his final destination of Middletown. After arriving at Wesleyan University, Lyon met with Rev. Horace Bartlett, the steward of the university, who showed them to a wash area and the large dining hall. After dinner, the group went on a tour of the university, followed by a visit to the home of the Wesleyan president. Lyon and President Bangs immediately became well acquainted and the president hoped Lyon would call upon him again. Lyon then returned to the Steward and was introduced to Professor Willett who accompanied him to the chapel to pray. At the chapel, Lyon was quite upset as most of the student body paid no attention to the lecture and instead nodded off. After prayer he went to Prof. Willett's estate south of the university, where Lyon came across a very interesting meeting. It seems at Professor Willett's home there were . . . half a dozen of students who assembled to form an Oriental Society (pg. 13); however, this is the only mention of the society and Lyon gives no other details. After this encounter Lyon attended a General Class Meeting of Students, and then decided to return to Professor Willett's house to sleep.
The next morning (July 1), Lyon left Professor Willet's home and returned to the President's room where he met with the Exam Committee. Lyon includes notes on each student's progress through a series of exams over two days. The notes range from a simple very good to a small description of how badly the student failed. During the next two days, Lyon was able to observe examinations in thirteen different subjects including: moral philosophy, the United States constitution, political economics, combined mechanics, analytical geometry, declaration, logic, mental philosophy, law, geometry, astronomy, trigonometry, and national history, for which Lyon wrote, I am the Committee. In addition to evaluating each student on how well he did on the examinations, Lyon also occasionally commented on their attractiveness. After the exams were over, Lyon had dinner with Professor John Johnston, and then decided to lodge with Professor Harvey B. Lane for the night. That evening, Lyon attended a Committee meeting where they decided to pass upon the students.
The final entry in the diary details Lyon's trip back to New York City on July 3, as well as his summary of Wesleyan University. Lyon bragged that both Professor Willett and Johnston wanted him to stay at their houses during his trip, and that the President demanded that next time William visited, he must lodge with him. Lyon then gives a summary of his experiences with each of the professors he met and their personalities including: Professor Lane, Professor Johnston, Professor Smith, Professor Haber, Professor Willett, Professor Huber, and President Bangs. William also describes the ladies of these professors including: the president's wife, Professor Johnston's wife, Professor Lane's wife, and Professor Willett's wife. William concluded that he was disappointed overall in the Wesleyan student body, for they seemed to be tested only on the basic principles. The last sentence of this diary summarizes these sentiments: I candidly think that one year in Irving would be better for those freshmen than both Soph and Junior year in College.
A typed transcript of Lyon's diary is also available. However, this copy is only from the time that Lyon reached Wesleyan and does not include the time spent with his family in New York.
There are two pieces of correspondence in this collection. The first letter of William Lyon is written to Professor Jacob F. Huber on August 18th, 1840. This letter describes William's gratitude for Wesleyan University granting him an honorary A.M. degree. However, William writes that there is no convenient way of getting his diploma, so he hopes that Professor Huber will forward it to H. + S. Raynor who will pay for the required fee.
The second letter, also to Professor Huber, tells of Lyon's acceptance to the Examination Committee for Wesleyan University. He writes that he has some hesitance in accepting this position because his school is still in session, but recognized that it was too grand of a proposition for him to deny.
A one-page biography of William Phoebus Lyon is details his life from 1819 to December 4, 1841. It names the places he took up residence, a few of his jobs, and his family affairs. However, none of these events are explained in any detail and most only give the years, not the exact dates.
This journal is a copy of the original.
The David McAllester collection documents McAllester's interests in writing, research, music and ritual. Early folders in Series I: Writings, feature short stories and poetry which he submitted for consideration to magazines like The New Yorker. David McAllester also published widely, in scholarly journals, book reviews, encyclopedias of music, and materials for teachers. Drafts of his work and correspondence relating to his writings are contained in Series I.
The bulk of David McAllester's professional life consisted of his long tenure at Wesleyan University. Series II contains field notes and an exhaustive correspondence with colleagues in the fields of anthropology and ethnomusicology. Professor McAllester had close relationships with members of the Navajo Nation whom he worked with during field research. He was interested in the ceremonies of the Navajo people, and did extensive work on the Blessingway healing ceremony. He also had close ties to members of the academic world who either acted as a mentor to him, such as Lee Wyman, or whom he mentored, such as Charlotte Frisbie. His field work was an attempt to understand the differences and find the commonalities between people through music and ritual.
The circle of people in his life expanded ever outward and he kept in touch by voluminous letter writing as evidenced in Series III, Correspondence. This series contains both professional and personal letters since David McAllester never clearly drew the line between the two. In all of his correspondence, he kept carbons of letters he wrote, so the collection is easy to follow and rich in detail.
As a young man at the beginning of his career, his studies in anthropology at Columbia were interrupted by World War II. Documents in the beginning of Series IV, Personal History, show his application for Conscientious Objector status and the activities he was involved in during the four years he was in the Civilian Public Service (CPS). Projects of interest to him after formal retirement in 1986 are found in the second half of this series. His writing and administrative talents were put to use for the Monterey News, a local newspaper, for ten years. His humanism shows itself again in his involvement with the Never Again Campaign, a project between the US and Japan to promote understanding and the prevention of the use of nuclear weapons.
David McAllester was married to his wife Susan from 1940 until her death in 1996. Series V contains letters she wrote to him, correspondence of her own with friends, and papers surrounding her final illness.
Series VI consists of a photograph album, circa 1894 from the family of David McAllester's mother, Maude Helen Park McAllester. The photographs are portraits of family members, individually and in groups. Some are labeled with names. They are mostly tintypes.
Series I: Writings, 1943-1995
Series II: Subject area, research and correspondence, 1946-1996
Series III: Correspondence, 1940-1996
Series IV: Personal history, 1941-1996
Series V: Susan McAllester, 1944-1994
Series VI: Photo album, circa 1894
This series is arranged chronologically. It traces David McAllester's writings from early short stories and poetry to scholarly journal articles, book reviews and books. The last four folders contain notes for columns for the newspaper Monterey News.
This series contains field notes and correspondence with colleagues in the fields of anthropology and ethnomusicology. It also contains notes for courses and talks given by David McAllester in the United States and abroad. It is arranged alphabetically by topic.
Newspaper clipping on a federal case involving definition of the uli'uli and whether it is a musical instrument or not.
Bibliography for Robbins Swamp Project ('82-'88). Research program summer '87-fall '88.
Correspondence relevant to anthropology.
Correspondence, timetable, extensive handwritten notes for course taught in Australia summer 1978.
Correspondence and notes on Blessingway film from its conception to creation.
Texts of Blessingway chants.
25 pages of handwritten notes transcribing interview (with father of Frank Mitchell)?
Correspondence with Bob Brown while he was in India.
Brown University: seminars in ethnomusicology taught fall '89 and spring 1990.
Galley proofs of Burrows' "Sound, Speech, and Music" Amherst: U Mass Press, 1990. Notes by DM.
Curt Cacioppo, composer/pianist. Snake Dance Trio score for flute, cello and piano. Two other compositions as well.
Correspondence with Irene Mitchell and family.
Correspondence with Irene Mitchell and family.
Paper by K. Coley. Editorial marks by David McAllester. His notes in front: list of names with symbols.
Professional correspondence.
Professional correspondence.
Professional correspondence.
Musical notations of 12 dawn songs/transcriptions of words plus 'Johnson's guide' (Frisbie). Some notes by D McA.
27 dawn songs attributed to Ray Winne, notated with words. Extensive handwritten notes by D McA.
Dawn songs 1-9 (missing #5) attributed to Smith. Accompanying notes by D McA.
Frederica de Laguna, Bryn Mawr, PA. Correspondence.
Correspondence.
Correspondence.
Proposal for field study. Related subject materials.
Songs of Ray Winnie Lukachukai, transposed, notated and words transcribed.
Correspondence with Charlotte Frisbie, especially regarding book in honor of Lee Wyman.
Correspondence and contracts for entries to Groves made by D McA.
Thesis by Leanne Hinton.
38 pages of handwritten notes on hogan (house) songs. Six pages of typed translations and notes.
Field study. Research interviews with 5 people in Ramah, NM. Questions about their songs and instruments.
Project report for seminar in ethnomusicology 5/26/65.
Miscellaneous articles and leaflets on plants in American Indian life.
John Russell Kelsey, correspondence.
Photos taken of the musical instrument (kudyapi), in the Philippines.
Two papers and bibliography by Danny Lichtenfeld.
Miscellaneous maps.
Correspondence w/ Wheelwright Museum re: Matthews' wax cylinder recordings of Navajo music made early 1890's.
"The Treatment of Ailing Gods" manuscript in the W. Matthews collection now in MNCA, Santa Fe, NM. 2 copies.
"Navajo Blessingway Singer: The Autobiography of Frank Mitchell, 1881-1967". Photographs of Mr. Mitchell.
Essay concerning 5 different translations of the same Navajo poem.
Correspondence.
Correspondence.
Correspondence.
Navajo Studies Conference, Feb. 20-22, 1986. Albuquerque, NM.
Correspondence.
Field Notes I.
Field Notes II.
Newspaper clippings mostly from Navajo Times, some correspondence, all relating to new Indian music.
Sessions given at the American Indian National Self-Reliance Conference at Brigham Young University, March 9-11, 1983.
Olin, Caroline B. "Early Navajo Sandpainting Symbols in Old Navajoland: Visual Aspects of Mythic Images". Autographed
Correspondence re: guest lectures, symposia, etc.
Correspondence re: guest lectures, symposia, etc.
Correspondence re: guest lectures, symposia, etc.
Correspondence re: recordings of Eastern woodlands native American music recorded by D McA in 1952.
Correspondence with Pequot tribe re:plans for archives for Eastern North American music at the Pequot Museum.
Correspondence relevant to PhD thesis on peyote songs.
Newspaper clippings, writings and correspondence.
Handwritten notes for paper.
Correspondence and notes for paper given at conference at Arizona State University, April 14-16, 1977.
Correspondence re: repatriation of recordings of Navajo music made by D McA. Transcription of interview, Jan 1993.
Bibliography of works by H. Roberts, chronology.
Legal paperwork establishing a Massachusetts chapter of this foundation.
Chris Saumaiwai. Music of Fiji.
Janet Whittle, Masters Thesis "The Sligo Rover": copy of paper and correspondence.
Interview with Albert Smith of Navajo Nation. Handwritten field notes, typed notes. Story extracted and typed separately.
Correspondence.
Correspondence.
Correspondence with and student papers by Pamela Swing (incl. "Musical Toys in the Alexander Lazar Collection").
4th International Symposium of the Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Property, Tokyo, August 6-9, 1980.
Transcripts of interviews done in Tumaco, Columbia by Tom _? Pages 1009-1132 plus one page appendix.
Documentation, correspondence regarding establishment of World Music Program 1963.
Correspondence regarding publication of "Worlds of Music" edited by J. Titon, Schirmer Books.
Extensive correspondence with Lee Wyman, colleague and mentor. Scholar in Navajo studies.
Extensive correspondence with Lee Wyman, colleague and mentor. Scholar in Navajo studies.
Legal correspondence relating to estates of Lee Wyman and his wife.
The correspondence in this series is arranged chronologically. Letters include carbon copies of letters sent by David McAllester as well as letters received by him. Correspondents include family, friends and colleagues.
This series brackets David McAllester's professional life. It documents his time spent in the Civilian Public Service as a conscientious objector during World War II. This series also documents his activities during his retirement from 1986 to the present. Arrangement of this series is chronological.
Application for CO status.
Correspondence, minutes of inter-camp meetings.
Newsletter of Civilian Public Service (CPS) #12.
Correspondence: withdrawal of CPS#81 from AFSC administration.
Newsletters/bulletins for CPS #81.
Complete sets of newsletters for CPS #81.
Manuscript by patient at CT State Hospital.
Writings by patients for in house newspaper.
Writings by patients.
Drawings, partial letters, clippings.
Guggenheim fellowship application, misc. photos, etc.
Natural Resource Inventory and Land Use Plan for Monterey, Massachusetts.
Exhibit: Navajo Art. Retirement events.
Information on Eastern encephalitis.
General information on topic.
Monterey News.
Japanese program promoting peace and cultural understanding.
Susan and David McAllester were married for over 50 years. This series contains letters written by Susan to David and also correspondence with her own friends. Some of the correspondence is arranged alphabetically by correspondent. The rest of the correspondence is chronological. This is the way the Folders were originally created.
The single photograph album in series VI is from the Park family of David McAllester's mother. Some of the photographs are labelled, but not all. Most of the photographs are tintypes.
The Wesleyan University Media Collection is arranged in series by media type. Material within each series is arranged in numerical order. Each series starts with Box 1 and item one, so that new material can easily be added without shifting boxes or changing box numbers. An earlier system, for example, did not always distinguish between a reel-to-reel audio tape and an audio cassette. Both would be given the next number and then housed in the same box. Housing material in different formats in the same container has been discontinued.
Eight series have been established. Series I: Tape recordings consists of reel-to-reel audiotapes. The tapes carry the prefix TW followed by an item number. Items that are on audiocassettes are found in Series III. Series II: Video recordings consists primarily of films on videocassette. These items carry the prefix VTW followed by an item number. The videocassettes are primarily in VHS format, although a few are Betamax and are noted in the listing. Series III: Audiocassettes consists of material on audiocassette and carry the prefix AC followed by a number. Since some cassettes had been accessioned as a TW number, cross references have been placed from TW to AC. Example: Wesleyan Spirits in Concert at Alpha Delta Phi (TW 86) see: Audio Cassette AC 5. Series IV: CD format. Series V: Oversize items, followed by a number. There are cross-references from the original series to the oversize location. Series VI: Unprocessed material consists of music disks and reel-to-reel films in metal canisters. Some general description of this material is available in the collections file for this series. Series VII: DVD format. Series VIII: Record albums.
Some items are available in more than one format. When this occurs, a cross reference is made. For example, the Jeffrey Schiff videotape of the Library Project Symposium is also available as a DVD, so a cross reference is made from VTW 38 to CD/DVD 1. It should be noted that there is one tape (TW 32) that is labeled as confidential.
Series I: Tape recordings
Series II: Video recordings
Series III: Audio cassettes
Series IV: CDs
Series V: Oversize
Series VI: Unprocessed material
Series VII: DVDs
Series VIII: Record albums
See also CD 18.
See also CD 23a and CD 23b.
See also audio cassette AC 1.
Nelson W. Polsby, E.Q. Daddario '39, Joseph Tussman, A.E. Sutherland '23.
R.C. Flewelling '16, B.A. Passett '56, F.O. Glover, Jr. '66: Changing Concepts in City Planning
John W. Macy '38, Fred B. Millett.
Carl E. Schorske.
Rene Dubos, W. Waldo Beach '37, R.F. Haglund, Jr. '67, D. A. Egar '67.
See also CD 24a and CD 24b.
See also CD 21a and CD 21b.
See also CD 20a and CD 20b.
See also CD 22.
See also CD 25.
Transcription available in University Archives at call number Wes F C12.
See also CD 19.
See also: Audio Cassette AC 2.
Conversation with Alphonsus J. Mitchell. Transcription available at Special Collections & Archives at call number Wes/1911/W95.
Heavily abridged transcript appears in the Wesleyan University Alumnus, May 1968. See also: Audio Cassettes AC 3a-b.
See also: Audio Cassettes AC 3a-b.
Printed in the Wesleyan Argus, Feb. 9 and 11, 1972
5 reels.
See: Oversize 1.
See: Oversize 2.
2 reels. Stored in Oversize as OS 6.
See: Oversize 3.
2 reels.
2 copies. See also CD 34.
Missing. See Audio Cassette AC 4.
See Audio Cassette AC 5.
See also: Audio Cassette AC 6. See also: Oversize 4.
See: Audio Cassette AC 7.
See: Audio Cassette AC 8.
See: Audio Cassette AC 9.
See: Audio Cassette AC 10.
See: CD 2.
See also: Audio Cassette 11.
See: CD 3.
See also: Audio Cassette AC 12.
See: CD 4.
See: CD 5.
See: CD 6.
See: CD 7.
See: Audio Cassette AC 13.
See: CD 8. (Master of 78rpm version in archives)
See: AC 14.
See: CD 9.
2 tapes.
3 tapes. See also AC20a-b and CD17a-b.
Items in this series are in VHS format unless otherwise noted.
Parts 1 and 2.
Footage by Ernest Leighton ’09, gift of Alan Leighton.
3 tapes of Wesleyan team on nationally-televised NBC quiz show.
Higginbotham and Senior Class President (Bellavia) Speeches.
Two tapes.
VHS copy made from Etherington’s master.
Highlights tape.
Announcement Tape (2 copies).
(2 copies)
Tapes 19a-c are VHS; 19d is Betamax.
Tapes 19e-l are Betamax.
See also: Audio Cassette AC 16.
2 copies.
2 copies.
Features Wesleyan images.
Features Wesleyan images.
See also: DVD 1.
Narrated by Dr. Charles Perrill ’34.
2 copies.
1995 highlights tape, 3/4 inch reel-to-reel videotape master. See: OS 4.
For VHS use copy, see: VTW 15.
2 copies.
See also DVD 8 for viewing copy.
Located in Oversize box.
Located in Oversize box.
2 copies.
Copy of original, made May 1987.
Made March 1981.
Historic tape compiled by Betsy Potts.
Compiled by Betsy Potts.
2 copies.
2 DAT95 cassettes. See also TW 125a-c and CD 17a-b.
2 copies.
Playlist: 1) Fan Dance; 2) Filipino Dance; 3) Kaba Wockeez; 4) Jabba Modern; 5) Walk it Out; 6) Thai Fingernail Dance; 7) Soap Opera Opening; 8) Soap Opera Fight; 9) Soap Opera Death and Closing; 10) Fusion Hip Hop; 11) Bollywood; 12) Walk it Out
Discusses her father, Henry M. Wriston.
Wesleyan University Glee Club, Jibers, and Cardinals singing groups. See also TW97 and AC8. 1 duplicate.
Master and listening copy available. See also TW 51.
Master and listening copy available (2 discs each). See also TW 125a-c and AC20a-b.
Master and listening copy available. See also TW 2.
Master and listening copy available. See also TW 40.
Master and listening copy available (2 discs each). See also TW 23.
Master and listening copy available (2 discs each). See also TW 22.
Master and listening copy available. See also TW 30.
Master and listening copy available (2 discs each). See also TW 3.
Master and listening copy available (2 discs each). See also TW 21.
Master and listening copy available. See also TW 32.
2 copies.
CD made by Ted Voss from original record album. The Jibers in 1957 consisted of John Allen (class of 1957), bass; David Van Norman (class of 1957), baritone; John Hall (class of 1958), 2nd tenor; and Ted Voss (class of 1957), 1st tenor. The Jibers were directed by faculty member Ray Rendall.
See also TW 84.
See also DVD 8 for viewing copy and VTW 53d for VHS copy.
The unprocessed material in this series consists of music disks and reel-to-reel movie films in metal canisters. Some general descriptions of this material can found in the collections file. There was no attempt to match the descriptions with the material at this time.
Symposium speakers include: Barbara Jones, Suzy Taraba, Andrew Curran, Barry Chernoff, and Jeffrey Schiff.
2 discs
The history detectives investigate a silver bar, with a strange mark, from the Atocha shipwreck; a man in Portland, Oregon who may own a typewriter that belonged to famous war correspondent Ernie Pyle; and a copy of August Spies’ autobiography originally owned by Lucy Parsons, one with the only known copy with her stamp on the front, currently housed in the Special Collections and Archives library of Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut. Parsons sold this book to raise money to defend her husband, Albert Parsons, who was in jail, accused of participating in the Haymarket Tragedy in Chicago in 1886. Albert Parsons and August Spies were both executed, although there was no evidence to support the accusations. The Haymarket is an important milestone in labor history and the history of radical political movements.
Film about African-American students at Wesleyan by Jane Charles-Voltaire (class of 2007) and Simone L. Collins (class of 2007).
Face Forward is a short photo essay that explores Black identity and community at Wesleyan.
It was designed to start a conversation about community and what it really means to be a Black community. Too often, the term community can be restrictive and at Wesleyan, there often is a sense of disjointedness within the Black community. The central issue was that while individuals identified themselves as being Black, that didn’t necessarily mean that they were the same. So, in many ways, the focus of this project was to show the many faces of Blackness and how we all fit together at Wesleyan.
Methodology:
To better understand our own Black community, specifically who we are and where we came from, we chose to interview and photograph approximately 50 Wesleyan students, each of whom identifies as Black. These students represented a multitude of backgrounds, nationalities, interests and majors. We sought to understand their Black identity as relative to others but perhaps also figure out how each of these unique identities could come together to form a new understanding of Blackness and ultimately, a community.
We also wanted to consider the fact that we are all part of a much larger Wesleyan community and visually reference the legacy we have been left with from previous generations of Black students. The historical photographs are of Wesleyan students in the 1960's and 1970’s.
Class of 2011 Common Reading Program, presented by First Year Matters/Center for the Arts/Department of Dance.
DVD created from VTW 10.
DVDs (master copy, viewing copy, and two watermarked viewing copies) created from videotape (VTW 53).
DVDs (master copy and viewing copy) created from video.
2 copies. 78 rpm format. See also AC18.
The Mead Papers consist primarily of diaries, with one volume for each year from 1880 to 1944, with the exception of 1887 and 1922 for which no volumes exist. These volumes are arranged chronologically in Series I, Boxes 1-8, folders 1-30.
Mead inserted, pasted, or paper-clipped correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs, and other such items into his diaries. Until about 1920, few such items appeared and they have usually been left in place, especially if the item was small and related to the diary entry for a particular day. After 1920, Mead inserted more things into the front or back covers of the diary. These loose items, especially folded correspondence, programs, and clippings, were removed from the diary and placed in Series II in chronological order.
For 1891, the year that Mead traveled to Iceland, there is one separate two-volume journal and one photograph album covering the period 1891 July 8 to September 1. These items are housed in Series III, Box 9, folders 58-60. For the period before and after the Iceland trip in 1891, there is an 1891 diary housed in Series I, Box 1, folder 4. The diaries provide insight into the daily life style of a well-established Wesleyan faculty member. Entries relate to weather, visitors and visiting, travel, and reading. Some entries mention his wife, but for the most part, they are concerned with what William did. When traveling, many of the entries give a location with the date.
The Mead diaries are noteworthy for recording the amount of traveling that Mead did both before he married Kate, and throughout their married years, especially in the 1920s and 1930s. In a May 1922 article for the Wesleyan Alumnus, Mead writes about their travels to Paris, Rome, Cairo, and Jerusalem. They were again on a world tour after Meads retirement from Wesleyan in 1925. This tour lasted about five years. They spent much of 1926 touring Europe, London, Spain, Francis, Tunis. An article in the December 1926 issue of the Wesleyan Alumnus mentions that Professor and Mrs. Mead have postponed their visit to China. (The Meads did not travel to China until 1936.) In 1927, they journeyed to the Canary Islands, Naples, Pompeii, Athens, Tripoli. In 1928, they were in Rangoon, Bombay, Athens; and 1929 London, Paris Rome. They returned home to Haddam on October 4, 1929. Another item of note that appear in the collection is a ten page typescript by Kate, dated May 30, 1932, (Box 8, folder 49) giving an account of a trip south to New Orleans. Diaries entries give location where the entry is written: Haddam, at sea, etc. Traveling continued until Kate’s death.
In 1936, the Meads traveled to China. They began their journey from Connecticut to China on January 4 when they drove from Haddam to New Haven and took a train to New York. By the morning of January 7, they crossed the Mexican border at the Rio Grande at Laredo. On January 8, they were in Mexico City, and on the 24th they boarded the President Hoover in San Francisco, and arrived in Honolulu on the 29th. On the 28th of February the Meads were in Shanghai where they were met by John McGregor Gibb, Wesleyan Class of 1904, who was in the exporting business. The Meads were in Canton in early March. They had dinner with E.K. Smith, Wesleyan Class of 1895, on March 23 and visited the Great Wall on March 24. William’s diary provides a daily record of the China trip from the time he and Kate left Haddam in January until they returned home to Haddam on May 17.
The summer of 1937 found the Meads in London, Paris and Amsterdam. In April 1938, William broke his hip. There was not much traveling until May 1939 when they drove cross country. In July 1940 through August, the Meads drove to Canada and Nova Scotia. William notes in his diary that he is now 80 years old.
Although Mead was associate principal of Ansonia high school for only two years, he seemed to maintain contact and interest in the school. In the correspondence files, there is a copy of a graduation program for March 28, 1884 and photograph of students and teachers dated 1883 (Series II, Box 8, folder 31). An article about the retirement of Mary E. Lathrop as Librarian of Derby High School, from the Ansonia Evening Sentinel, dated July 29, 1932, is filed in the 1932 correspondence folder (Series II, Box 9, folder 49). The 1933 folder (Series II, Box 9, folder 50) contains an article from The Observer titled, “1933 Looks Back to 1883,” by Lois Davidson about the first class to graduate Ansonia High School in 1883 that mentions Mead.
The collections contains some family correspondence especially with Kate’s sister, Mabeth Hurd Paige. Mabeth was a member of the Minnesota state legislature. Her husband, James Paige, died on February 4, 1940. Mabeth had two daughters, Emma and Elizabeth. Kate’s brother, Randolph Campbell Hurd (1872-1956) was a member of the Wesleyan Class of 1895, but left school in his sophomore year. He received an M.D. degree from Harvard in 1897.
Kate Mead seemed to foresee her death. In November 1940, on a trip to New York with her sister, Mabeth Hurd Paige, Kate discusses how William should be cared for in the event of her death. Shortly after Kate’s death, Mabeth typed up a document outlining Kate’s wishes that William signed. This contract appears near the front cover of the 194l diary. With Kate’s death, William appeared to decline quickly. His handwriting deteriorated, entries became shorter, and he did not travel or want travel. His last diary entry is for April 5, 1944, five years before his death: Haddam Overcast . . .? Read as usual. William died in 1949 at the age of 88.
The collection is arranged into three series: Diaries, Correspondence, and Icelandic Journals.
The Fred B. Millet World War II Letters from Students were sent from both Wesleyan and non-Wesleyan students involved in the war effort. Although the collection does not contain Millett's letters, the students' letters reveal much about the lives of the young men during the war. They were apparently written in response to Millett's occasional personal newsletter for Wesleyan servicemen.
The collection also includes two newspapers related to the end of the war in 1945.
Arranged alphabetically by last name of student. If a Wesleyan year of graduation was found, this is noted.
The Student Papers About Middletown Collection features graduate and undergraduate papers about the history of Middletown, Connecticut and the surrounding area. Topics include politics, labor, commerce, ethnic and racial groups, women's history, and leisure.
The papers are arranged in alphabetical order by author's last name.
View pdf in WesScholar.
This collection is divided into five folders. The first and second folders are general correspondence between Wesleyan and the various branches of the military, during the years 1968-1971, and 1972-1975, respectively. This correspondence is mostly generic in nature: military requests to visit campus, University responses to these requests, University inquiries about military programs, and military mailings and brochures detailing their career options for students.
The third folder is the Policy folder, and it contains the documents pertaining to the creation of the University's policy towards military presence on campus. Because of student and faculty protests about the military actively coming on campus and conducting interviews with students, the University created a new policy whereby there was an Advisor on Military Programs for students who scheduled meetings with the military based solely on student request. There was some controversy, as the Marines accused Wesleyan of barring the military from the campus, and due to a Public Law in the NASA Act (enclosed in the collection), the university could have been penalized by the Secretary of Defense by having funds denied to it. The information pertaining to this conflict is all enclosed in the third file.
The fourth file is the Philip Rockwell file. It includes several articles from the Argus and the Middletown Press from 1968 and 1969 about military protests by students, and the University's decision to create a new position for an Advisor on Military Programs. It is at this time that the University created a new policy toward the military on campus. This file contains information about the creation of this office, a handwritten essay by Rockwell entitled My Stand on Position of Advisor on Military Programs, correspondence, and his annual report of activities from 1969 to 1972.
The last file in the collection is the Paul Reynolds file. Paul Reynolds was a professor at Wesleyan who vocally protested the Vietnam War and military presence on campus, for various reasons. This file mostly contains his writings, his letters to the administration, the Argus, and detailed written explanations about his beliefs and actions toward military and espionage recruiters on the Wesleyan campus as well as the administration's response to this accusations and inquiries.
This folder contains correspondences between the military and the University (mostly Philip Rockwell) about career options in the military for Wesleyan Students: this file contains many duplicates.
This file is comprised of documents, arranged in chronological order pertaining to the Wesleyan's policy on military recruiting. It includes documents from Wesleyan and the military.
Handwritten essay.
Collection contains the records of the Middletown Scientific Association, spanning the years 1871 to 1976. These records document the proceedings of meetings from the association's founding in 1871 until its cessation in 1968, the administration of the association, and its association with the town of Middletown and Wesleyan University. Included are minutes, meeting announcements, treasury and presidents' reports, clippings, a scrapbook, and other historical materials. Of note are the announcements and clippings regarding talks given to the association by prominent scientists such as Italian physicist and Nobel Prize winner Enrico Fermi in 1940, and the association's resolutions on matters effecting the scientific community at large.
Materials are organized into three series: Meeting Records, Administrative Materials, and Historical Materials.
This series contains meeting records of the Middletown Scientific Association, spanning the years 1871 to 1968. It is primarily comprised of minutes and meeting announcements. Minute books also typically contain the association's constitution and bylaws, and one book of the secretary's records contains additional materials such as obituaries of prominent members and treasury reports.
Contains minutes, resolutions, annual reports, treasury reports, meeting notices, obituaries of prominent members, membership application cards, constitution, and list of members.
Contains annual reports, clippings, list of members, obituaries of prominent members, and meeting announcements.
Contains correspondence and financial records, documenting the administration of the association from 1905 to 1971.
Contains clippings, historical notes about the association, papers presented to the association, and other material pertaining to the history of the Middletown Scientific Association.
The majority of this collection is 18th- and 19th-century documents from around the Middletown area, with some documents from the 17th- and 20th-centuries. Most of the documents contained in this collection are legal documents, such as deeds, petitions, issued tickets, bills, etc. There are documents about the railroad in Middletown, including the documents about the building process of the extension through Middletown. The shipping records in the collection include some information about the ships themselves, as well as some information about where they were coming from and who was part of the crew. There is a folder of financial information belonging to the Addis family, which is primarily a collection of bills for Miss Addis and all the purchases she made. Another folder has financial information related to the Doane family. There are two bound books in the collection. The first has very little written in it, but it includes some correspondence between father and son in the de Zeng family about financial issues. The second bound book is a detailed journal kept by Charles H. Neff about the discovery of Indian relics and old Indian settlements in and around the Middletown area.
History and stories of the first grist mill in Middlesex County.
The story of the old mill; Old Mill in the Lives of Our Forefathers; The Highway that runs by the Mill; Some Who Passed on the Old Road; Grinding the Old Stand; Inspecting Invited
To E. W. Newton, Dr., for Board from Hon. A.H. Everett on August 2, 1898 for $3.73.
To E. W. Newton, Dr., for 3 meals and housekeeping on October 14, 1894 for $1.50.
18 articles. Accepted unanimously, Thaddeus Nichols, Secretary, Middletown, CT, February 7, 1799
For the sum of 45 pounds and 14 shillings to Deliverance Warner and Mary Gaylord, Wilcox received 7 1/2 acres and 20 rods of land. Signed, sealed, delivered in the presence of Samuel Craval.
All common and undivided land of the East side of the River in South Middletown and gift of the heirs to her brother Deliverance Warner. Witnessed by Joseph Lockwell and Wm. Rockwell.
For 21 pounds and 5 shillings from John Cooper (her son) for 4 acres and 39 rods on the East side of the Connecticut River.
For 300 pounds from William Southmayo (?) for 7 acres on the West side of the Connecticut River.
For 350 pounds from John Cooper for 6 acres on the East side of the Connecticut River. Witnessed by Seth Rockwell and Timothy Cornwall.
Javez Hamlin, Esq. To Thomas Bliss, whereas Daniel Bliss deceased.
For 6 pounds and 10 shillings form Sylvanus Waterman and Seth Knowles for 2 ½ acres on the East side of the Connecticut River. Witnessed by Joseph White and Isaac Waterman. 1 copy for 18 pounds; 1 copy for 7 pounds and 10 shillings; and 1 copy for 43 pounds and 1 shilling.
250 pounds from Cap. Sam Russell for 3/4 acre.
For 130 pounds from Justus Riley of Wethersfield for 26 acres and 26 rods.
For $300 from Benjamin Merriam for 16 acres and 29 rods in Wallingford. Witnessed by Sam Woodruff and J. Atwater.
For $1 from Samuel Tudor of East Windsor for land 3 miles in length and 33 rods in width in East Windsor.
A list of debts and to whom they are owed for an unknown person, by his attorneys, Storrs and Mather, dated July 13, 1829. With a summon to those owed money to the court by judge of the superior court, Stephen T. Hosmer.
New Haven, Middletown, and Willimantic Railroad Company. Signed William Boardman.
The town granted him 10 acres.
The town accepted Thomas Miller's gift of a highway.
The town grants him the liberty of the river above the mill to dig and dam for preserving water.
The town exchanges a piece of land, rod for rod, to enlarge the highway to the mill.
The town granted to exchange a parcel of land by the mill.
The town granted him 1 1/2 acres near the mill.
Bills for shipping, financial notes, and salary notes of ships traveling in and out of Middletown.
Benjamin Williams to Dr. William Stam
Sugar sales, a bargain for a friend. Letter from Comfort Sage to Mr. Sam Cotton.
To Capt. Williams from John Andrews (for $9) and Stephen Northlus (for $50).
To William Jepson for 15 nights on Sloop Scrub's 2nd voyage.
To John Williams.
To William Scovel.
Capt. Benjamin Williams to John Nolls.
To John Harris.
John Williams Master. Boat of Ebenezer Sage, captain.
Capt. John Williams to George Starrs.
To Israel Driggs from Capt. Benjamin Williams.
Capt. Benjamin Williams to John Daniels, James Daniels, John Williams, B. Williams, Josiah Scifile, Simon Taylor for wages. List of the ship's costs, including wages totaling $378.14.
Tickets for trips on ships and boats, legal documents in regard to shipping and seamen.
20 miles travel, Windsor, JW Hubbard.
Ticket entitles Richard Hubbard 1 passage between Middletown and Hartford.
Shipping from Middletown to New York, names illegible.
William C. Hall, Middletown to Charlston, South Carolina. Jason Goodwin, master of the voyage. Amount insured: $1700. Signed by Benjamin Williams and A. Miller, secretary.
Signed in Middletown August 6, 1801.
Report and manifest of the cargo laden on board of the Schooner F.H.C. where of Chancy Barnard is master, taken on board at the port of St. Croix bound for the port of Middletown, May 20, 1804. List of packages and contents.
Signed January 16, 1806 by James Seymour, Edward Dodge, James Barnard. Bound for the port of Barbados and Back, 1805. Chancy Barnard, master; Edward Dodge, mate; James Barnard, seaman; James C., seaman; David S., seaman; Thomas Curtis, seaman; Silas Stewart, cook; and James Seymour, cook. Wages totaling $271.98.
Receipts and notices of the building and expansion of the railroad in and around Middletown.
1 first class passage to Washington, D.C. from Philadelphia.
Received from William G. Buell of Chatham sum of $2.50, the 2nd installment on 5 shares of Capital Stock in the New York & Boston Railroad Company. Signed Stephen Taylor, Treasurer.
Locations for railroad in Connecticut. Signed H. Closson.
To Rachel Penny and Charles R. Alsop of Middletown, executors and trustees under the last will and testament of George Penny.
Letter to those who may have had objections to the proposed location of the railroad: Description of where the railroad will go with a promise of a meeting with the general railroad commissions on August 25, 1858 in Middletown for the people to object.
Letter to those who may have had objections to the proposed location of the railroad: from the Middletown Railroad Company to Berlin, Middletown, some individuals out of the area and some corporations stating where they plan to build the railroad. Signed Ebenezer White.
Letter to those who may have had objections to the proposed location of the railroad: from Middletown Railroad Company to Berlin, Middletown, some individuals out of the area, and some corporations stating where they plan to build the railroad. Signed William M. Ward.
Bank promises of payment.
The State of Connecticut owes 11 pounds and 14 shillings to Comfort Sage and promises to pay by March 10, 1788 with an interest of 6% per year. Signed I. Lawrence, treasurer.
Connecticut owes Abigail Hubbard 19 pounds and 10 shillings to be paid by June 1, 1786 with lawful interest. Signed I. Lawrence, treasurer.
Connecticut owes Abraham Doolittle 10 pounds and 17 shillings to be paid on or before the end of the year with 6% interest per year. Signed I. Lawrence, treasurer.
20 cent notice. Signed by cashier and N. Hubbard, president.
Promise to pay I. Mason $10. Signed by cashier and N. Hubbard, president.
3 cent note. Signed by cahier and N. Hubbard, president.
$3. Signed by F.G. Gleason, cashier, and Watkinson, president.
Promise to pay J. West $10. Signed by cashier and Nathan Hubbard, President.
A stampless cover was an envelope that was posted before the time when the use of postage stamps became mandatory for sending mail (January 1, 1856). 3 cents paid. Miss Frances Baker, Port Byron, NY. Envelope with no letter.
Registered in the front office, September 29, 1791 for 6 shillings and 8 pence. Signed Dodd and Joshua Stow.
Humphrey Pratt of Saybrook has paid the duty of $1, for the year, to end of the 31st day of December next, for a two wheel carriage owned by him and the harness used. Signed L. Stow, collector of the Revenue for the 6th collection district of Connecticut.
A bound book of financial information for the Ecclesiastical Society of Middletown, payable by November 1, 1799.
I, William M.H., one of the bishops of the Methodist Episcopal Church have set this day apart Edward Hyde for the office of an elder in the Methodist Episcopal Church (a recommendation).
Return J, Megis, Junior Post-Master General of the United States of America. Signed January 1816 by R.J. Megis and Stephen Gray, clerk.
To R.E. Thompson from J.S. Stewart, Dr., printer and bookbinder. Bill for 1000 YMCA notes.
Bill to Mr. R.W. Raymond from Lucius R. Hazen, wholesale and retail bookseller, stationer and news dealer, for a cash box.
Bill to Wesleyan YMCA building from J.S. Stewart for 400 receipts.
Bills and other financial documents.
Be it known that the Miner Cemetery Association of Middletown in considerations of $10 received from William H. Addis for lot #102. Signed by Joel M. Clark, justice of the peace, Herbert Smith, James Smith, president, and Julius S. Bacon, secretary.
William H. Addis is entitled to 1 share of the capital stock of the Miners Cemetery Association. Signed James Smith, president.
F. Brewer & Co., Dry Goods Exclusively. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. received $15 from Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. received $3 from Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. Bill for Miss Addis.
J.H. Bunce, Dry Goods, Carpets and Furniture. Received $3.98 from Miss Addis.
F. Brewer & Co. received $3 from Miss Addis.
James H. Bunce. Bill for Miss Addis.
J.H. Bunce received $1 from Miss Addis.
J.H. Bunce bill for $1.75 for Miss Addis.
J.H. Bunce bill for $2.50 for Miss Addis.
J.H. Bunce bill.
J.H. Bunce received $3.43.
J.H. Bunce bill.
J.H. Bunce received $3.75.
Caulkins & Post, Carpets, Draperies, Furniture, etc. Received $4.
Caulkins & Post bill.
Caulkins & Post received $7.05.
Bill from J.A. Broatch, Bookseller, Stationer and Newsdealer.
Bill from J.A. Broatch.
Bill from J.A. Broatch.
Bill from Buell & Blatchley, Druggists.
Bill from Buell & Blatchley, Druggists.
Bill from Buell & Blatchley, Druggists.
Bill from J. McCarthy, Interior and Exterior Decorating.
Bill from L. Bailey, MD.
Bill from The Singer Manufacturing Co.
L.R. Hazen received $3.
L.R. Hazen received $1.
L.R. Hazen received $2.
DeKraus received $2.25.
J.F. Parker received $45.
Bills and other financial documents.
Samuel Miller of Saybrook for the consideration of $140 received from Josiah Doane of Saybrook for about 1 acre and 2 rods of land. Signed by Samuel Miller, John L. Whittelsey, M.A. Whittelsey.
Richard Jones of New York received $13.75 from Josiah A. Doane of Saybrook for 8 acres and 34 rods of land. Signed by R.S. Jones, James C. Holmes, Edmund Porter.
Asa Kirtland Jr. of Saybrook sells Josiah A. Doane a piece of land in the ferry district of Saybrook of about 10 acres from $225. Signed by Asa Kirtland, Henry Kirtland (justice of the peace), Jane M.B..
Jeanette Bushnell of Old Saybrook sold Josiah A. Doane 4 acres of Old Saybrook for $150. Signed Henry Hart, Jeannette Bushnell, Mary Hart.
Ms. Caroline Jones and Ms. Augusta Campbell of New York, J. Edmund Jones of Chester, Connecticut, Henry Jones of Meriden, Ellen Whitney of Springfield, Massachusetts sold Josiah A. Doane 1 acre for $200.
Eunice A. Addis, wife of Wm. Addis, sold Josiah A. Doane 4 acres for $500. Signed by Eunice A. Addis, Ozias H. Kirtland, Grace Kirtland.
Eunice and William Addis sold Josiah Doane 12 acres for $500.
Amanda A. Doane of Colchester sold William R. Havens a piece of land in Old Saybrook. Signed by O.H. Kirtland, Ann Amanda Doane, Caroline Havens.
William R. Havens of Old Saybrook sold Frank A. Doane of Colchester about 1 acre for $45. Signed by William R. Havens, C. Havens, O.H. Kirtland.
Letter from O.H. Kirtland to Mrs. Doane explaining the partially filled out deed.
Ann Amanda Doane sold Eunice A. Addis 14 acres and 4 acres in Old Saybrook for $300.
Promise to pay the Essex Savings Bank $250 with 7% interest. Signed by Josiah A. Doane.
Essex Savings Bank received $250 from Josiah A. Doane.
J.A. Doane to F.A Doane: List of money borrowed. Payment received to the satisfaction of F.A. Doane October 4, 1882.
Josiah A. Doane last will and testament. Notarized
Josiah A Doane last will and testament. Draft.
Letter to Mrs. Doane from Henry H. (2 pages)
Letter to Mrs. Doane from John N. Clark.
Bill from C.D. Burnham & Son, Monumental Works to Mrs. Amanda A. Doane for a headstone.
Envelope addressed to Mrs. Josiah A. Doane from Old Saybrook.
Bill for Mrs. Doane's Estate from M.W. Robinson, MD.
Bill to Estate of Amanda A. Doane from Geo. W. Walker, Proprietor of Livery and Feed.
Check for $12.50 to M.W. Robinson.
Check for $60 to P.A. Dawley & Son.
1 bound volume. Richard L. de Zeng owned the house on High Street later occupied by the Epsilon Gamma Chapter of the Sigma Nu Fraternity.
Bound volume. Handwritten with typed title page which reads Hartford, Connecticut State Library, 1927.
The records of the Missionary Lyceum survived in five volumes of varying sizes, entitled Account book, Records, Register, Correspondence, and Letter book. In the fall of 1978, in order to preserve them longer, the letters were removed from the letter book, put into folders, and the decaying volume discarded. An alphabetical index of letter-writers was made. The small amount of correspondence in the Correspondence volume was also removed and the volume discarded.
The contents of the Correspondence volume are now found in Folder 1. They include 16 letters to and from the Lyceum, copied over by the corresponding secretary. The file also includes Memorandum of the correspondence of the M. Lyceum and lists of corresponding members, honorary members, and honorary members ex officio.
The correspondence that was removed from the letter book is now in folders 2-14. A name index to the correspondence in folders 1-14 is as follows: Abeel, D.
Bangs, Nathan (President 1841-42)
Bannister, Henry (Class of 1836)
Burton, Jabez
Bushnell, Horace (Honorary 1842)
Cogswell, William
Curry, Daniel (Class of 1837)
Dempster, John (Honorary 1848)
Disoway, Gabriel P. (Honorary 1833)
Durbin, J. P. (Class of 1853)
Dwight, H. (Class of l835)
Fisk, H.F. (Class of l860)
Fisk, Willbur (President 1830-1839)
Fitzgerald, Adelaide
Fox, Henry G.
Fulton, James
Greene, D.
Hall, Charles
Hale, J.G.
Haven, Erastus O. (Class 1842)
Jacobs, Simon P.
Kettell, George F.
Kidder, Daniel P. (Class of 1836)
King, Jonas
Kingsbury, Benj. Jr.
La, Daniel
Leagen, M., et. al.
Lovejoy, J.
Palmer, L.
Parker, Benj. W.
Peters, Absalom
Rich, Charles
Ripley, H.W.
Seys, John
Simpson, M.
Spaulding, Justin (Honorary 1844)
Spaulding, R.
Stevens, A.
Stone, A.S.
Suckley, George
Tefft, Benjamin F. (Class 1835)
True, Charles K.
Trumbull, Robert 
Wilson, A.
Winslow, M.
The Record of Meetings, in folder 15, includes minutes of meetings, rosters of members for every year, and versions of constitutions dated October 1834, 1 May 1848, and summer 1858.
The Register, in folder 16, includes an address on the motives for sustaining the Missionary Lyceum and the obligation of Christian students to sustain it (21 September 1834); a report on the Green Bay Mission (4 January 1836); a report on the moral and religious condition of the Ottoman Empire (18 April 1836); and rosters of members, classes of 1859-1873.
The Account Book, in folder 17, includes income, expenditures, initiation fees, and receipts. Most expenditures were for wood, oil, locks, and cleaning and repairs. It also records payments by members to the Chique Chaque Eating Club.
This Middlesex County Archaeological Digs Records were compiled by Stephen Dyson. They document his archaeology labs conducted in the field and courses focusing on local Connecticut sites. It includes student essays, student field sheets, student lab inventories, grant proposals, Connecticut Historical Commission Inventory sheets for sites in the Middlesex area, and photos of mid-19th century topographic and housing maps of the towns of Middletown, Middlefield, and Cromwell, Connecticut.
There is a 1977 report written by Stephen Dyson (Box 1, Folder 10) which reviews the findings and the importance of the class after their first three years. He wrote about the Magill House, their second site of excavation, and the conclusions that were made about the wealthy Captain Magill of the 19th century. After their third excavation at Kelly's Pet Store, formerly known as Doc Hall's House, he was able to compare the different life styles of the two families. The Hall House residents lived a more reserved life and preferred the pipe over drink. The class concluded that the Magill House was full of luxuries through analysis of pottery found during the excavation. Dyson wrote that, with the success of his class excavating the Middlesex County area, it would soon include the community and start a program with children from the community.
This collection contains both written and visual material pertaining to a Wesleyan experience during the early part of the 20th century. The collection consists of a scrapbook that Miller kept during his four years at Wesleyan, anniversary medals presented to Miller by Wesleyan in 1931, two diaries covering his Freshman year (1910-1911) and second semester of his Junior year (January-June 1913), and a supplemental binder. Highlights of the scrapbook include playbills for both Wesleyan and local productions, scorecards and tickets relating to various sporting events on campus, a number of Miller's semester and examination schedules, items related to the Omega Phi chapter of Delta Upsilon, cigarettes and cigars (including Turkish), and photographs (mostly unidentified). The supplemental binder includes a short biography done by Miller's son John W. Miller, transcriptions of the diaries, genealogy of the Miller family, family photos, tributes to Miller, and photocopies of various items in the scrapbook.
The Monday Club Records include minutes and other documents of club business and events. Many of the materials record events and event planning, as well as texts of papers given at meetings and scripts for several plays. The Club is best documented between the 1930s and 1970s, with less information about the years before and after.
Materials are arranged in two series: Minutes and Alphabetical Files. Alphabetical Files include committees and groups, constitutions, correspondence, historical materials, lists, newsletters, papers, president's notes, programs, scrapbooks, scripts, and treasurer's records. There is some general information from the 1980s filed at the end of the Alphabetical Files.
In addition to official minutes, occasional treasurer's reports, and lists of officers and members, the minutes often serve a scrapbook function, with occasional constitutions, annual and specific programs, photographs, and other materials pasted in. Many of these are not represented in separate groupings. The folder division of the minutes represents the assorted looseleaf notebooks from which they were removed at the time of processing.
One volume. See typed transcript in Box 1, Folder 2.
One volume.
Includes thank-you notes, 1910-1925; thanks for donations to Conn. State Hospital, 1951; copy of R. T. Limbach acknowledgement of club gift of two Wedgwood sandwich plates to the Davison Art Center in 1958; several draft letters by historian Jan Bruster, early 1970s; Acknowledgement of Anniversary Day Gifts, February 15, 1971.
Chronological notes, with sketches.
19 pages, with covering letter.
2 pages.
Includes dates joined and left.
These lists are usually accompanied by a list of officers and committees. Some years missing.
Four pages historical documents, letters of thanks from District Nurse Association (DNA), and 18 letters (1946-1955) from DNA describing work of the day paid for by the fund.
Describes life in Tunis. 5 pages.
4 pages.
38 pages.
22 pages, plus bibliography. Also delivered to the Literary Club and to a Methodist Church group.
25 pages.
6 pages.
12 pages.
1 page.
Includes two copies of one photo
Two photos only.
Includes photographs.
8 pages.
24 pages.
39 pages. Also a scrapbook containing typescript of same text (fuller) with many photographs of the performance and some music.
7 pages.
2 copies
Series 3, Concert Programs, contains programs for musical performances held at Wesleyan University. Performers include Wesleyan and non-Wesleyan musicians. A small group of organ concerts is listed first, followed by concerts of all types in chronological order. This collection is incomplete.
For the guide to the complete Music Department Records, please see http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/mu1000-182.html
7 boxes (3.5 linear feet)
The collection is arranged in six series. The records in Series 1, the Ethnomusicology Doctoral Program, relate to the establishment of the Music Department's advanced degree program in world music. The proposal drafts and notes, created in large part by David McAllester, describe the program and its requirements, including budget information. McAllester's proposal for an anthropology department, dating to roughly the same period, is also included. The meeting minutes, memoranda, correspondence, and grant proposals relate to the creation of the ethnomusicology doctoral program. An NDEA fellowship application and a report entitled Program for Advanced Studies in World Music are also included. The Creative Arts Program documents contain information on the ethnic music component of the music program.
Series 2, Photographs, comprises images and printed material relating to music performances by members of the Wesleyan community or artists visiting the university, circa 1947 to 1988. Approximately 400 print photographs--as well as contact sheets, negatives, and slides--are included. The photographs are arranged in two subseries: Faculty and Student Groups, and World Music Performers. The Faculty and Student Groups subseries includes images of Music Department staff and student music group members, either posed or during concerts. Photographs in the World Music Performers subseries show visiting artists who specialized in African, Indian, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, and Native American music. Instruments shown include the Indian been, kanjira, mrdangam, sarangi, sarod, sitar, tabla, tambura, and vina; the Javanese gender and gamelan; and the Japanese koto, shakuhachi, and shamisen. Photographs of ethnic dance performances and Javanese shadow plays are also included. A third subseries, Printed Material, consists of biographies and resumes of world music performers. A fourth subseries, Oversized Material, includes a drawing of Professor Richard Winslow as well as programs and explanatory notes for world music performances.
Series 3, Concert Programs, contains programs for musical performances held at Wesleyan University. Performers include Wesleyan and non-Wesleyan musicians. A small group of organ concerts is listed first, followed by concerts of all types in chronological order. For a complete list of programs in this series, please see http://www.wesleyan.edu/library/schome/FAs/mu1000-182-3.xml
Materials in Series 4, Concert Correspondence Files; Series 5, Events Scrapbooks; and Series 6, Programs and Records, have not been processed.
The Ethnomusicology Doctoral Program records relate to the establishment of the Music Department's advanced degree program in world music. The proposal drafts and notes, created in large part by David McAllester, describe the program and its requirements, including budget information. McAllester's proposal for an anthropology department, dating to roughly the same period, is also included. The meeting minutes, memoranda, correspondence, and grant proposals relate to the creation of the ethnomusicology doctoral program. An NDEA fellowship application and a report entitled Program for Advanced Studies in World Music are also included. The Creative Arts Program documents contain information on the ethnic music component of the music program.
The Photographs series comprises images and printed material relating to music performances by members of the Wesleyan community or artists visiting the university, circa 1947 to 1988. Approximately 400 print photographs--as well as contact sheets, negatives, and slides--are included. The photographs are arranged in two subseries: Faculty and Student Groups, and World Music Performers. The Faculty and Student Groups subseries includes images of Music Department staff and student music group members, either posed or during concerts. Photographs in the World Music Performers subseries show visiting artists who specialized in African, Indian, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, and Native American music. Instruments shown include the Indian been, kanjira, mrdangam, sarangi, sarod, sitar, tabla, tambura, and vina; the Javanese gender and gamelan; and the Japanese koto, shakuhachi, and shamisen. Photographs of ethnic dance performances and Javanese shadow plays are also included. A third subseries, Printed Material, consists of biographies and resumes of world music performers. A fourth subseries, Oversized Material, includes a drawing of Professor Richard Winslow as well as programs and explanatory notes for world music performances.
Folders are arranged alphabetically.
One drawing is located with Oversized Material in Box 6.
Performers include Emmanuel Duodu, Christian Darkwa, and Abraham Adzenyah.
Oversized printed material is located in Box 6.
Series 3, Concert Programs, contains programs for musical performances held at Wesleyan University. Performers include Wesleyan and non-Wesleyan musicians. A small group of organ concerts is listed first, followed by concerts of all types in chronological order. This collection is incomplete.
For a complete list of programs in this series, please see http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/mu1000-182-3.xml
1 box (0.5 linear feet)
1 box (0.5 linear feet)
15 boxes (14.5 linear feet)
The papers of Gorham Munson (1896-1969) deal almost wholly with his support of Social Credit and are confined to the years 1932 to 1945. There is almost no information about his career as a literary critic, book editor, and teacher of writing. The material includes articles, books, correspondence, pamphlets, and scrapbooks
The collection grew out of Munson's interconnected roles as organizer, publicist, fund-raiser, editor, promoter, lobbyist, propagandist, theorist, leader, and diplomat for a succession of Social Credit organizations from 1932 to 1945. Published materials provide the best documentation of the development of the theory of Social Credit in England, Canada, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand. The politics of individual and factional differences within the American movement is represented best by the files of correspondence.
Munson's most revealing correspondence is with the slightly-known figures in the Social Credit movement. The chief exception to this is the correspondence with Ezra Pound, his father Homer Pound, James Laughlin IV and, to a lesser degree, William Carlos Williams. For England there is strong documentation in the letter files of the New English Weekly, Major C. H. Douglas, John Hargrave, Philip Mairet and Stanley Mott. For Canada the documentation lies more in published material Correspondence between Munson and R. Halliday Thompson is revealing of the difficulties of conducting an international Social Credit review, The Beacon of Winnipeg, which incorporated New Democracy in 1937-1939. For Australia and New Zealand there is published material and some correspondence such as that with Lilly Bierne.
For the United States the internal dynamics of the Social Credit movement are manifest in many files, especially those of Herbert Bruce Brougham, Allan R. Brown, Howard L. Buck, A. M. Edwards, Paul Hampden, Laurence Morris, W. A. Nyland, A. H. Spencer, Elliott Taylor, and Mrs. E. Sohier Welch. Congressional correspondents include Charles G. Binderup, Fred L. Crawford, T. Alan Goldsborough and Jerry F. Voorhis.
Correspondence will be found in four difference series in the Munson papers, arranged alphabetically in each by the name of the writer of the letter. In searching for material on any single individual the listings in all series should be consulted.
The collection is arranged into the following series:
New Democracy Correspondence, 1932-1938: Office correspondence to and from staff: Gorham Munson, Herbert Bruce Brougham, W. A. Nyland, Lawrence and Paul Hampden. Occasional items outside the period that pertain to New Democracy and Social Credit are included.
ASCM Correspondence, 1938-1945: Office correspondence of staff, especially of Gorham Munson and Paul Hampden. Some items predate the founding of the American Social Credit Movement in October 1938.
Social Credit Subject File, 1932-1945: Materials from a succession of Social Credit organizations in which Munson was engaged, publications with which he had business (including New Democracy), and individuals associated with him. The series is divided by country. Contents of folders vary and include correspondence, memoranda, mimeographed and printed material. A few items stemming from the 1920s are included.
Munson Correspondence, 1922-1964: Scattered exchanges chiefly on topics other than Social Credit arranged alphabetically by correspondent.
Munson Writings, 1923-1963: Reviews of some of Munson's books. Copies of magazines in which his articles appeared and some tearsheets of his articles; the arrangement is alphabetical by title of the magazines. Manuscripts and typescripts, published and unpublished, are grouped roughly by period. Biographical information and photographs of Munson.
Pamphlets: 101 pamphlets dealing chiefly with Social Credit.
American Social Credit Movement Emblem: Emblem, 15 inches x 18 inches. A woodsman striking at the roots of a tree with lettering, American Social Credit Movement, green on white, wood.
Scrapbooks: Contain clippings on Social Credit news and related matters. The items are not ordered nor are particular scrapbooks limited to subjects. Complete inventory of scrapbooks is available as a PDF: http://www.wesleyan.edu/library/schome/FAs/munson_scrapbooks.pdf
Periodicals: Social Credit periodicals from Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom, and the United States. A total of 43 periodicals, short to full runs.
Books: Social Credit periodicals from Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom, and the United States. A total of 43 periodicals, short to full runs.
Office correspondence to and from staff: Gorham Munson, Herbert Bruce Brougham, W. A. Nyland, Lawrence and Paul Hampden. Occasional items outside the period that pertain to New Democracy and Social Credit are included.
Numbers in parentheses indicate number of letters to and from Munson. For example, (9/12) means that the folder contains 9 letters to Munson, and 12 letters from Munson.
Office correspondence of staff, especially of Gorham Munson and Paul Hampden. Some items predate the founding of the American Social Credit Movement in October 1938.
Materials from a succession of Social Credit organizations in which Munson was engaged, publications with which he had business (including New Democracy), and individuals associated with him. The series is divided by country. Contents of folders vary and include correspondence, memoranda, mimeographed and printed material. A few items stemming from the 1920s are included.
See also William Rose.
Scattered exchanges chiefly on topics other than Social Credit arranged alphabetically by correspondent.
Copies of the originals which Munson had previously given to Fisk University.
Reviews of some of Munson's books. Copies of magazines in which his articles appeared and some tearsheets of his articles; the arrangement is alphabetical by title of the magazines. Manuscripts and typescripts, published and unpublished, are grouped roughly by period. Biographical information and photographs of Munson.
101 pamphlets dealing chiefly with Social Credit.
A woodsman striking at the roots of a tree with lettering, American Social Credit Movement, green on white, wood.
Contain clippings on Social Credit news and related matters. The items are not ordered nor are particular scrapbooks limited to subjects. Complete inventory of scrapbooks is available as a PDF: http://www.wesleyan.edu/libr/schome/FAs/munson_scrapbooks.pdf
Social Credit periodicals from Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom, and the United States. A total of 43 periodicals, short to full runs.
Munson's books on Social Credit and related economic subjects. Books are shelved separately from the rest of the collection.
The Wesleyan Museum Records contains annual reports, correspondence, invoices, inventories, catalogues, accession books, photos, and other materials. It is organized into four series.
Series 1 contains Annual Reports of the museum. Series 2 contains Administrative materials, such as correspondence, used in the daily operations of the museum. Series 3, the largest series, is Accessions, Catalogues and Inventories. These materials reflect the museum's natural history focus, with many bird, fish, mammal and insect specimens. There are also detailed lists of shells, minerals, wood samples, coins, marbles, and even a detailed description of the museum's mummy. There are also catalogs of some of the curiosities donated to the museum by collectors or groups. Series 4 is Images, a small collection of photographs and negatives.
The Annual Reports contain summaries of changes in administration or procedure, major acquisitions, number of visitors, and any other notable happenings. The reports from the 1970s relate to the anthropology and archaeology collections, some of which came from the original Wesleyan Museum.
In most cases, the photocopies of the 1877-1892 annual reports should be used to prevent wear and tear on the originals.
Administrative materials include correspondence, reports, forms, registers of visitors, and other documents used in the administration of museum operations.
This item is fragile and must be handled with care. It contains correspondence and invoices dating from 1876 to 1896.
This volume has a hole drilled through its upper lefthand corner and a chain threaded through the hole. The book was possibly used as a reference book for the employees or visitors of the Wesleyan Museum.
New accessions to the museum, organized by genre, were carefully recorded by hand in bound volumes or notebooks. Each accession was assigned a number.
Catalogues are inventories of particular collections, usually assembled by a single collector or small group of collectors.
Inventories are lists or descriptions of items in the museum.
These materials reflect the museum's natural history focus, with many bird, fish, mammal and insect specimens. There are also detailed lists of shells, minerals, wood samples, coins, marbles, and even a detailed description of the museum's mummy. There are also catalogs of some of the curiosities donated to the museum by collectors or groups; for example, the Missionary Lyceum, an 19th century Wesleyan student group, recorded African, Indian, and South American materials in their Catalogue of Curiosities.
Book 1 only goes to number 280. 80 numbers not filled.
These specimens have been re-catalogued in the special Catalogues of Mammals, Birds, Reptiles and Amphibia, and Fishes.
Made by Benjamin T. Roberts, Frank O. Blair, Ralza M. Manly, and Henry S. Noyes.
Arranged by A. Bigelow, S. Martindale, Jr. and S. Fitch, Jr., Committee.
Woods found growing about Portland, Conn., or vicinity.
All Indian relics recorded in this book were found about Portland, Conn., and in the neighboring towns within a radius of a few miles.
The photographs include images from a dig in Tennessee, shrunken heads, and a person dressed in an Inuit costume, as well as images of the museum and some of its items. These appear to be from the early 20th century. There are also several photographs from the 1970s of a mortar the was uncovered in Portland, Connecticut.
The negatives include images of pottery and Brazilian, Polynesian, and Egyptian materials.
The series also contains X-rays of the Wesleyan museum mummy.
The x-rays appear to be images of the museum mummy from 1978.
The first series, V-5 Training Unit, includes information on the syllabi, curricula, and exams used in the program. It also includes regulations, directives, and newspaper and magazine articles about the program. There is a single photograph of some of the cadets during wintertime. The second series, V-12 Training Unit, includes letters, clippings, handbooks, and course-related materials. It also features a variety of photographs of the students and staff of the V-12 Training Unit. The third series, Publications, includes materials related to the curriculum in the V-5 and V-12 programs. These are general publications about flight and weather, most of which were used by John Spaeth, a V-5 instructor and professor of classics.
The V-5 Training Unit series includes information on the syllabi, curricula, and exams used in the program. It also includes regulations, directives, and newspaper and magazine articles about the program. There is a single photograph of some of the cadets during wintertime.
The V-12 Training Unit series includes letters, clippings, handbooks, and course-related materials. It also features a variety of photographs of the students and staff of the V-12 Training Unit.
Note:
The Publications series includes materials related to the curriculum in the V-5 and V-12 programs. These are general publications about flight and weather, most of which were used by John Spaeth, a V-5 instructor and professor of classics.
The Nineteenth Century Administrative Records Collection consists of the original charter for Wesleyan University, early Trustee, University Secretary, and faculty records, and financial records related to donors, students, and the university itself. The financial items consist of correspondence, statements, accounts, bills, receipts, inventories, tuition, and housing information. There is also information about student admittance, attendance, absences, and demerits.
The collection is arranged into the following series: General Records; Financial Records: General; Financial Records: Donors; Student Records: Financial and General; Alumni and Visitor Records, and Oversize.
Note: Charter of University. 4 leaves. On verso of last leaf: Wesleyan University: Act of incorporation. Registered draft by Mr. Stanley. Original is in some places illegible. Accompanied by typed transcript.
Note: 16 leaves. Apparently a printer's copy for the 1859 (first) printing. The laws and rules were adopted by the Joint Board, 21 June 1859. The first two and last three leaves are in the handwriting of President Cummings.
Note: Records of outgoing correspondence and lists of visitors from various conferences.
Note: Correspondence regarding honorary degrees; letters to Augustus W. Smith regarding nominations of visitors and members of the examining committees by the Methodist Conferences.
Note: One volume containing: sundry journal entries, 1830-1831; sundry ledger accounts, 1839-1843; lists of students entering Wesleyan University between 1831/32 and 1844/45; and sundry accounts, July 1871-June 7, 1877.
Note: Receipts and expenditures, loans due by Wesleyan University.
Note: Check stubs, empty checks; also laid in are scratch sheets and a letter regarding pipes.
Note: Money owed to the university, cancellation of stock.
Note: Expenditures and receipts. Also laid in are various separate financial exhibits.
Note: Check stubs, numbered 1-50, for bills paid to various people for supplies.
Note: List of subscribers; in back pocket: Statistics of the church at Wesleyan University; miscellaneous regarding Centenary subscription
Note: 3 volumes with records of subscribers to the $100,000 permanent endowment fund.
Note: List of donors and the amounts paid to Wesleyan; also a list of bonds owned by the school at this time.
Note: Subscribers agree to pay for five successive years the sums attached to their names . . . for the purpose of endowing new professorships and for other essential improvements.
Note: The Ladies Centenary Association for the Wesleyan University raised funds for the erection of the Memorial Chapel.
Note: Appeals to the State of Connecticut, to the Annual Conferences of the Methodist Episcopal Church; appeal for the Centum Millia fund, for serial subscriptions; for Memorial Chapel; general appeals; and appeals via the alumni regarding support of athletics.
Note: Scholarships include Permanent or Perpetual, Clergyman's or Ministerial, 10 percent stock, 15- and 50-year, Seney, etc.
Note: Appeals made by the committee and correspondence regarding donations.
See also Records of Attendance and Boarding Hall Cash Book in Oversize series.
Note: Parent's or guardian's name at top of page with lists of expenses during stay at Wesleyan.
Note: Volumes for 1831-1833, 1833-1834, and 1834-1835. Includes lists of students and amount of tuition by term.
Note: Lists of students and amount of tuition by term.
Note: Individual bills and lists of students and amount of tuition by term.
Note: Volume 1 is Treasurer's book for the Boarding Association, 1833-1835. Volumes 2-6 are Board books, 1833-1844.
Note: Volume 7 is an Inventory of boarding hall, 1834-1844. Volumes 8-9 contain a running expense account, 1834-1844.
Note: Statement by term on expenses, property of boarding house.
Note: Number of students by term, scholarships, room rents, stove rents, etc.
Note: Lists of occupants, repairs needed in college rooms.
Note: Lists of students' names, ages, courses of study, residences, names of parents or guardians and their occupations, and places of preparation.
Note: Alphabetical list of preparatory and high schools and number of students from each; list of schools with students' names, manner of admission, and grades (first half year).
Note: Name of department, list of students who passed or were deficient, with comments by committee interspersed. Includes report of the first outside examining committee, recommending the first group of Wesleyan seniors for the B.A. degree.
Note: Divided by class, list of students; divided into weeks; lists of numbers and alphabet letters (meaning uncertain); title page says Weekly Exercises.
Note: By student and subject.
Note: By class, by students--exceptions, admonitions, not examined, not passed in various courses.
Note: Includes information on scholarships.
Note: List of student names, number of demerits, dates.
Note: Pieces of paper pasted in, includes chapel roll by classes, W.N. Rice classes, various courses.
Note: Arranged chronologically: name, what missed, excuse.
See also Visitor's Register in Oversize series.
The Stephen Henry Olin Regimental Scrapbook consists of two sections. The first begins with a hand-painted title page and dedication page, and then continues with about 15 pages of newspaper clippings detailing the travels of the 7th Regiment of the New York Militia in 1860. The second section begins after a number of blank pages and consists of humorous newspaper clippings including puns and moral stories. In the middle of the second section are two more hand-painted pages, these dedicated to the New York Fire Department.
This scrapbook predates the start of the war, and instead details much lighter subject matter. The first portion of the book consists entirely of newspaper and magazine clippings (many from Vanity Fair) detailing a trip that the 7th Regiment made to Washington D.C. in February 1860. Specifically, the trip was made to attend the inauguration of a new statue of George Washington. The Regiment was apparently extended the invitation by the Honorable John Cochrane, who made promises of great hospitality. Many of the clippings in this scrapbook are of a cartoonish nature, and show the 7th Regiment facing misfortunes and snubs-- first being stood up at the station after a long train ride, then wading through feet of mud in the streets, and finally finding that their host had left the city. There are also articles about the inauguration ceremony itself, as well as a copy of an order sent to the 7th Regiment by Colonel Marshall Lefferts before the trip, but mostly the material laments the hardships of the regiment in a rather tongue-in-cheek manner.
The Parents' Information Collections includes handbooks and other information sent to parents of incoming and transfer students at Wesleyan University.
Note: Includes the Handbook for Parents and other information regarding upcoming Wesleyan events and the Middletown area.
The collection consists of seventeen scrapbooks, each devoted to a particular parley, and some additional material including programs and clippings. The scrapbooks include correspondence, financial information, publicity, photographs, and sometimes the text of speeches made at the parleys. Some years are not represented in the collection.
When the full text of a speech is included, this is indicated.
Volume includes correspondence, publicity, invitations, and expenses.
Volume includes preliminary planning materials, correspondence, invitations, expenses, and clippings.
Includes full text of speech.
Volume includes correspondence, publicity, invitations, lecture bureau pamphlets, and expenses. The volume also contains a student poll on disarmament and a photograph of Rear Admiral Sims.
Volume includes Parley regulations, publicity, clippings, correspondence, expenses, and lecture bureau pamphlets.
Volume includes clippings, correspondence, invitations, and lecture bureau pamphlets.
Volume includes correspondence, planning and arrangement information, invitations, and lecture bureau pamphlets. It also includes the platform of the Socialist Labor Party of America.
Volume includes correspondence, lecture bureaus, and invitations. The text of many of the speeches is included. Also includes photos of Granville Hicks, Charles P. Howard, Gilbert H. Montague, and David Lasser.
Includes text of Hay's speech.
Includes text of speeches by both Goss and Hicks.
Includes text of speeches by Frey, Howard, and Saposs.
Includes text of speeches by Montague, Muste, and Saposs.
Includes text of speeches by both Frey and Minor.
Includes text of speech by Lasser.
Includes text of speeches by both Nearing and Saxon.
Volume includes correspondence, news releases, invitations, programs, finances, and lecture bureau pamphlets. Also includes two photos of Katharine H. (Mrs. Thomas N.) Hepburn and a photo of Norman E. Himes, and pamphlets of varying opinions on birth control.
Includes text of Hart's speech.
Includes text of Goldstein's speech.
Includes text of Harlow's speech.
Volume includes correspondence, news releases, invitations, finances, and cancelled checks.
Includes text of Dodd's speech.
Volume includes correspondence, news releases, financial information, lists of guests, lecture bureau pamphlets, and a Chairman of the Parley committee report. The following photographs are also included: one photo each of Carleton Beals, Edwin Borchard, Nathaniel Peffer, George N. Shuster, Mrs. Louise Leonard Wright; two photos of Smedley D. Butler; three photos of Gerald P. Nye; a photo of O.E. Stone, George N. Shuster, and Nathaniel Peffer; and a photo of five unknown men.
Includes text of speech by Berle.
Volume includes correspondence, news releases, invitations, finances, and lecture bureau pamphlets. Also includes photographs and biographies of the speakers and abstracts of their addresses and discussions.
Includes text of speeches by Marcantoni and Hart.
Includes text of Hathaway's speech.
Includes text of Laidler's speech.
Includes text of speeches by Decaux and Egan.
Includes text of Rae's speech.
Includes text Bernays's speech.
Includes text of speeches by Pepper and Short.
Includes text of Lerner's speech.
Volume includes correspondence, news releases, programs, finances, guest lists, and lecture bureau pamphlets.
Includes abstract of Scheinfeld's speech.
Volume includes correspondence, news releases, finances, guests and accommodation information, and lecture bureau pamphlets.
Volume includes correspondence, news releases, programs, finances, guest lists, and lecture bureau pamphlets.
Volume includes correspondence, biographical sketches and pictures, news releases, and a photo of Senator Flanders, Senator Ives, and J. Raymond Walsh
Volume includes programs, suggestions, correspondence, news releases, finances, information about guests and accommodations, and a series of 14 photos taken during the Parley event.
Volume includes a 1950 Parley History, correspondence with speakers, publicity, correspondence with delegates, and a financial report.
Includes text of speech by Collins.
The majority of the collection is from the mid twentieth century and pertains to some aspect of financial records. The rest of the materials include membership rosters, the organization and chapter procedures, and by-laws.
Note: Handwritten copy and edited copy.
Note: Original in North College Vault as of 12/78. Photocopy sent to Archives.
This book contains the records of two incarnations of the early Wesleyan University student group, the Physiological Society. The first section begins with a constitution written in 1839 with articles concerning the election of leadership, and goes on to by-laws explaining how meetings should be run, and what form they should take. Next are entries of minutes for the nine meetings held between May and November 1839, and then the account skips to an entry written in May 1842 explaining how the Society disbanded in November 1839. The second section contains a new and more detailed constitution and a comprehensive members list. Minutes of meetings for this later incarnation of the group date from May 1842 to April 1844.
Generally, the first half of this collection is very formal and not entirely informative about the Society's aims. There is much discussion about electing leadership, raising funds to create library, and generally setting the groundwork for a structure. The second half of the record, however, is much more detailed. In the second constitution, the Society speaks of the virtues of physical purity, mental and moral improvement, and the all controlling sympathies which exist between body, mind and spirit. The Society brought in honorary members such as local physicians and Wesleyan professors to speak and lead meetings, although there was also a great tradition of student oration: topics included Tobacco, Animal Heart and Muscular Action, and Savage Life Considered with Reference to Health and Longevity.
The collection is made up of 20 Hollinger boxes. The first seven boxes contain material about the poetry at the Honors College each year beginning in 1966. The material in these boxes includes announcements of poets coming to campus to read, as well as Wesleyan student poets reading at the Honors College. Information for the 1975-1976 year is not present. Boxes 8 through 11 contain information on the student poets on the Connecticut Poetry Circuit for every year from 1970 to 1990. (A list of the names of the off-campus poets and student poets for both the Honors College and the Connecticut Poetry Circuit can be found above.) Boxes 12 through 14 contain more detailed information about the poets who read at the Honors College and toured on the circuit (and are listed alphabetically). The final six boxes of the collection contain more administrative information, mostly from the Connecticut Poetry Circuit, including correspondence, requests from poets to be included in the tour, financial information, information about the selection committee, and some history of the circuit.
Please note: Information for the 1975-1976 year is not present.
2 folders.
The Stephen B. Porter Archive of Wesleyan Student Music consists of recordings made by Stephen B. Porter '87 of student music performed at various locations on the Wesleyan University campus, 1983-1987. The recordings are on audiocassettes. Some of the tapes were recorded with the assistance of Dana E Walcott, '86, who provided assistance with documentation of the collection. This collection is dedicated to Andrew Stollman, Class of 1987, "in honor of the gifts he gave to all of us."
All recordings were made with the consent and cooperation of the performers.
Audience masters were recorded in stereo with a pair of Sennheiser ME-80 shotgun microphones and a Sony D5 portable tape deck.
View inventory PDF.
The Press Archives Records includes financial records, correspondence, annual reports, and 1959 and 1962 indexes of the contents of the Press Archives. There are also notes about the eventual disposition of the contents of the Press Archives.
Notes about disposition of Press Archives materials, 1967-1975; December 1959 index to the Press Archives; October 1962 index to the Press Archives
The Wesleyan Programs collection contains a variety of programs from 19th and 20th century Wesleyan events, including exhibitions by members of various classes and convocation, matriculation, and graduation ceremonies.
The Psi Upsilon records consist of materials related to Xi Chapter at Wesleyan University and include constitution, by-laws, minutes, programs, correspondence, invitations, clippings, publications, annals and chronicles, photographs, architectural drawings, and scrapbooks.
The records are arranged in the 13 series:
Series I. Administrative Records, 1841-1972;
Series II. Minutes, 1856-1959;
Series III. Correspondence, 1881-1971;
Series IV. Scrapbooks, 1863-1901;
Series V. Members;
Series VI. Initiations, 1884-1971;
Series VII. Programs and Events, 1873-1988;
Series VIII. Music and Poetry, 1874-1945;
Series IX. Clippings, 1891-1957;
Series X. Publications, 1855-1953;
Series XI. Photographs, 1870-1885;
Series XII. Other Records, 1840-1933; and
Series XIII. Architectural Drawings, May 1891.
List of those who contributed toward the building of the Chapter house
Inside cover marked "Xi Chapter of" and "G.S. Harrison"
List of initiated members
Records from 1867-1919
Book printed, signed by the Psi U. Executive Council
First of two invitations to the "Eightieth Annual Initiation," but the two invitations refer to different dates and initiates.
Second of two invitations to the "Eightieth Annual Initiation," but the two invitations refer to different dates and initiates.
Includes newspaper clipping about Gamma involvement in university athletics
Scrapbook collection of letters
Blue pages, several detached sections.
Catalogue of members
Cover titled "Zeta Chapter," catalogue of members
catalogue of members
Catalogue of members
Duplicate
Duplicate
First of two nametags belonging to R. P. Harrington
Second of two nametags belonging to R. P. Harrington
Duplicate
Includes one more verse than other copies of "Carmen Ad Psi Upsilon"
On back: "Our Home is Bright Again" and "Weep For the Fallen!"
Includes two staffs of handwritten sheet music
Twelfth Edition
3 copies, inside cover of one marked "Jesse Lyman Hurlbut, Class of 1864, Wesleyan University;" inside one is a letter from Hurlbut to the secretary of Psi Upsilon dated January 18, 1970
Duplicate
Anniversary Edition
Official Fraternity Publication
1/4 Scale plan of foundations and drainage
Plan of roof, plan of look-out, third floor plan
Plan of site
Section on line C.D., section on line AmB
South elevation, east elevation
North elevation facing College Street, West elevation facing High Street
First floor plan, second floor plan, plan gallery
Basement Plan
This collection of Public Information Press Releases is comprised of the press releases Wesleyan University sent out between 1961 and 1978, mostly to Connecticut publications and occasionally to publications throughout the United States. Many of the press releases are about the Wesleyan athletic teams, including scores, upcoming games, individual achievements, and team statistics. Other press releases detail cultural and academic activities on campus, such as visiting lecturers and guest speakers, musical performances, plays, workshops, movies shown on campus, and lectures by and discussions with Wesleyan faculty. In May of each year, a press release was sent to the hometown paper of each graduating student and again in the fall for the incoming freshmen. Any announcements of awards given to students, either academic or athletic, were sent to hometown papers as well. Press releases also noted any information regarding achievements of faculty, including faculty receiving tenure and announcements of new faculty to Wesleyan.
This collection contains issues of over 490 different gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender periodicals published between 1966 and 1998. The bulk consists of English-language titles from the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, though examples from the European continent, Russia, and Israel are also present. The extent of each title may vary from a single issue to several complete (or near-complete) volumes. The collection is arranged into three separate series by size, and alphabetically by title thereunder.
In the Box List, each title's contents are listed at the issue level. The first and last issues of each volume generally include an added date for reference. For longer runs of a single title, the first and last issues contained in each box are also listed by date. Titles that have been published with incorrect issue statements are listed, with a correction in parentheses if necessary. Multiple copies of a single issue are occasionally present in the collection, and have been noted. Some dates have been supplied for titles and appear in parenthesis. A comprehensive city/state/country index has been added to this finding aid, as well as a separate timeline that can be used to locate titles by publication date or date range.
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Summer1993); vol. 2, no. 7 (Mar.Apr. 1994), 8 (Jun. 1994).
Vol. 4, no. 1 (1978); vol. 8, no. 1-2 (1984).
Vol. 4, no. 3 (Jul.Aug. 1992).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jan. 1989).
No. 3, 9, 24, 37, 38 [1973], 41 (Nov. 8, 1973); vol. 2, no. 2 (Feb. 1974), 3, 5 (May 1974). Includes three unnumbered issues, ca. 1973.
No. 3 (1993).
Vol. 4, no. 10 (Feb. 1972), 12 (Apr. 1972); vol. 5, no. 1 (May 1972), 2 (Jun. 1972).
Vol. 5, no. 3 (Jul. 1972), 4-5, 6, 11-12 (Apr. 1973); vol. 6, no. 2 (Jun. 1973) 3-4, 7-8 (Dec. 1973); vol. 9, no. 2 (Jun. 1976), 4, 6 (Oct. 1976).
Vol. 1, no. 4 (Aug. 1977), 9-12 (Apr. 1978); vol. 2, no. 1 (May 1978) 2-4, 6, 8 (Dec. 1978).
Oct.Nov. 1994.
Vol. 2, no. 4 (Apr. 1984); vol. 8, no. 6 (Jun. 1990); vol. 12, no. 2 (Mar.Apr. 1984), 5 (Sep.Oct. 1994) [two copies].
Vol. 2, no. 2 (1978).
Spring 1987.
Vol. 2, no. 6 (Nov. 1987).
Dec. 1975Jan. 1976 [first issue, English language edition].
No. 1 (Nov. 1985), 2, 17-21, 32-33, 39, 40-43, 45 (Aug. 19, 1987).
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Summer 1993).
Vol. 1, no. 10 (Jul. 1993).
No. 30 (Sep.Oct. 1984), 34 [two copies], 35-36 (Apr. 1985).
Vol. 5, no. 2 (1970) [student publication].
Vol. 1, no. 4 (Jul.Aug. 1992).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jan. 1979).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Jun. 1984), 7 (Nov. 1984).
Vol. 3, no. 2 (Spring 1980), 3 (Fall 1980); vol. 4, no. 1 (Winter 1980-81).
No. 12 (Nov. 8, 1994).
No. 18 (Oct. 1984), 112, 123 (Jun. 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 4 (Summer 1994).
Vol. 8, no. 4 (1993).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Jun. 11, 1974).
Vol. 7, no. 9 (Feb. 1990).
No. 8 (1991).
Vol. 1, no. 4 (May 1990), 5 (Jun. 1990). Also known as BG Magazine.
No. 3 [n.d.]-6 (Jul.Aug. 1980); vol. 6, no. 1 (Jan. 1985).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Winter 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Fall 1988).
No. 8 (Apr. 1993).
Vol. 26 (Nov. 1978).
Vol. 7, no. 6 (Jun. 1994).
Vol. 8, no. 11 (Nov. 1985); vol. 9, no. 2 (Feb. 1986), 3, 5-6, 11-12 (Dec. 1986); vol. 10, no. 2 (Feb. 1987), 4 [two copies], 12 (Dec. 1987); vol. 11, no. 1 (Jan. 1988), 6, 8 (Aug. 1988).
No. 4 (Oct. 1994) [two copies], 5 (Jul. 1995).
(Jul.Aug. 1994).
Vol. 11, no. 7 (Dec. 27, 1991-Jan. 9, 1992).
No. 5 (May 1994).
Sep. 10-16, 1987.
Vol. 11, no. 10 (Oct. 1987).
Vol. 14 (Aug.Sep. 1993).
No. 41 (Dec. 28, 1984- Jan. 4, 1985).
Vol. 3, no. 4 (Jul.-Aug. 1993).
1979 [one issue].
Vol. 3, no. 2 [ca. 1980].
No. 12 (vol. 3, no. 4, 1981).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Jun. 1980).
Vol. 3, no. 6 (Jun. 18-19, 1993).
No. 55 (Apr.May 1993).
Jun.Jul. 1993, Oct.Nov. 1994.
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Fall 1992).
Vol. 1, no. 4 (Apr. 1993).
Vol. 2, no. 9 (Sep. 1971), 11 (Nov. 1971).
Vol. 1, no. 4 (Aug.Sep. 1992).
May 1981; Jun. 1981.
Spring 1974, Special Holiday issue, 1974.
No. 38 (Apr. 12, 1972), 40-41, 49, 65, 68-70, 76-79, 81-86, 89, 111-112, 114-117 (Apr. 23, 1975); 119-120 (Jun. 4, 1975).
No. 56 (Jun. 18, 1975), 57-58, 60; 127 (Sep. 10, 1975), 131-133, 135, 137-138, 140-143, 145 (May 19, 1976).
No. 146 (Jun. 3, 1976), 147; 83 (Jul. 1, 1976); July 4^th Special [1976]; 149-161 (Dec. 24, 1976).
No. 162 (Jan. 12, 1977) 163-168, 171-173, 175-178, 180-183 (Nov. 2, 1977).
No. 184 (Nov. 16, 1977) [two copies], 185-196, 198-2c00 (Jun. 26, 1978).
No. 201 (Jul. 12, 1978), 202-208; 145 (Nov. 16, 1978), 146 (Nov. 30, 1978).
No. 212 (Dec. 13, 1978), 213, 215-223, 225-228 (Jul. 27, 1979).
No. 229 (Aug. 9, 1979), 230, 232-238, 240-241; 177 (Feb. 1, 1980), 178-181 (Apr. 4, 1980).
No. 182 (Apr. 17, 1980) 183-184; 250 (May 29, 1980), 252-254 [two copies], 255-262 (Nov. 14, 1980) [two copies].
No. 263 (Nov. 27, 1980), 264, 269-274, 276-278, 281, 287-288, 293, 368 (Dec. 20, 1984), 447 (Dec. 28, 1987).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Aug. 1976).
Vol. 3, no. 3 (Feb. 1973), 4, 9, 12; vol. 4, no. 1 [n.d.]; vol. 7, no. 71 [sic] (Sep. 4, 1981).
No. 46 (Apr. 1993).
No. 6 (May 1993).
Vol. 3, no. 3 (MayJun. 1993); vol. 4, no. 3 (Jun. 1994).
No. 1 (Jun. 3, 1976), 4-5, 7-14 (Aug. 1977).
Vol. 5, no. 2 (Spring 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 3 (May 1977).
No. 7 (Summer 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 6 (MayJun. 1976); vol. 3, no. 17 (1977).
Yearbook 3, no. 13 (1988) [digest of issue nos. 13-17, 1982]; no. 36 (Jan. 1989).
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Spring 1992).
Vol. 1, no. 8 (Jan. 3, 1990), 19, 21 (Jul. 4, 1990); vol. 5, no. 120 (Apr. 21, 1994).
No. 1 (1994).
Spring 1994.
Jun. 1993, Aug. 1993.
Vol. 1, no. 1 (May 1987) [two copies], 2 [two copies], 3 [two copies], 4 (Oct. 1987) [two copies].
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Apr. 1974).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (1994).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Winter 1993).
Vol. 2, no. 25 (Jun. 20-26, 1986); vol. 3, no. 40 (Oct. 2, 1987), 41-42, 47, 49-50 (Dec. 11, 1987); vol. 4, no. 18 (May 13, 1988), 28 (Jul. 15, 1988); vol. 9, no. 18 (May 7, 1993).
Vol. 4, no. 1 (Fall 1988); vol. 8, no. 2 (SpringFall 1993); vol. 10, no. 1 (WinterSpring 1995).
Vol. 6, no. 4 (May 1993).
Vol. 1, no. 5 (Apr.May 1994).
No. 1 (1994).
Vol. 13 (Fall 1984).
May 1981.
No. 2 (1989) [Souvenir Gay Rodeo Issue].
Jun. 1975-Oct. 1975, Dec. 1975; vol. 8, no. 3 (Jul. 1977), 3a (Aug. 1977), 4 (Sep. 1977).
No. 7 (Winter 19921993).
Vol. 124, no. 14 (Dec. 16, 1991) [Gay in Corporate America special issue].
Oct. 1991.
Vol. 1, no. 2 (May 1985).
1990-1991
No. 2 [1993].
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Jun. 1995).
Mar. 1993.
Vol. 1, no. 2 [1979], 3; vol. 2, no. 5 (May 1979), 6-9, 11-12 (Dec. 1979); vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan. 1980), 4, 9 (Sep. 1980).
Vol. 3, no. 10 (Oct. 1980), 11 (Dec. 1980); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jan. 1981), 2, 6, 8-12 (Dec. 1981); vol. 5, no. 1 (Feb.Mar. 1982), 2 (Mar.Apr. 1982); vol. 6, no. 2 (Mar.Apr. 1983), 4-6 (Dec. 1983); vol. 7, no. 1 (Feb. 1984), 2-5 (Oct. 1984); vol. 8, no. 1 (Feb. 1985), 3-5 (Oct. 1985); vol. 9, no. 1 (Jan. 1986), 2-6 (Nov. 1986); vol. 10, no. 1 (Jan. 1987), 2-6 (Nov. 1987); vol. 11, no. 1 (Jan. 1988), 2, 6 (Nov. 1988); vol. 12, no. 3 (May 1989), 4-5 (Sep. 1989).
Vol. 2, no. 12 (Dec. 1979Jan. 1980); vol. 3, no. 1 (Feb. 1980); Sep. 1980.
Vol. 12, no. 5 (Jun. 15, 1991).
Apr.May 1994.
May 1984.
SummerFall 1990, no. 11 (SpringSummer 1991)-14, 16 (Spring 1994).
Jan.Mar. 1985.
Vol. 3, no. 12 (Mar. 27, 1980), 14-15, 20-23, 26, 33, 39-40, 42, 44, 46 (Nov. 20, 1980); vol. 4, no. 24 (Jun. 25, 1981).
Vol. 4, no. 25 (Jul. 2, 1981), 26-27 (Jul. 16, 1981); vol. 7, no. 35 (Aug. 30, 1984), 38 [two copies], 39 [two copies], 40 [two copies], 41 [two copies], 42-52 (Dec. 27, 1984); vol. 8, no. 1 (Jan. 3, 1985), 2-12, 15-16 (Apr. 18, 1985).
Vol. 8, no. 17 (Apr. 25, 1985), 18-29, 31-37, 40, 42-47 (Nov. 21, 1985).
Vol. 8, no. 48 (Nov. 28, 1985), 49-50 (Dec. 12, 1985); vol. 9, no. 4 (Jan. 23, 1986), 5-14, 16 [two copies], 17-23, 25 (Jun. 19, 1986).
Vol. 9, no. 26 (Jun. 26, 1986), 27, 48, 51-52 (Dec. 26, 1986); vol. 10, no. 1 (Jan 2, 1987), 3-10 (Mar. 5, 1987), 10 [sic] (Mar. 19, 1987), 14-15, 17, 19-21, 23-26 (Jun. 25, 1987).
Vol. 10, no. 27 (Jul. 2, 1987), 30-32, 34-46, 47 [two copies], 48-49, 50 [two copies] (Dec. 10, 1987).
Vol. 10, no. 50 (Dec. 10, 1987), 51-53 (Dec. 31, 1987); Holiday Shopper issue, 1987; vol. 11, no. 1 (Jan. 7, 1988), 2-6, 8-10, 11-13, 13 [sic, 14], 15-18 (May 5, 1988).
Vol. 11, no. 20 (May 19, 1988), 21-28, 30-35 (Sep. 1, 1988).
Vol. 11, no. 36 (Sep. 8, 1988); vol. 13, no. 14 (Apr. 6, 1989); vol. 12, no. 44 (Nov. 2, 1989); vol. 15, no. 39 (Sep. 24, 1992); vol. 16, no. 18 (May 6, 1993), 25 (Jun. 24, 1993).
No. 25 (Dec. 1984- Jan. 1985) [in Basque and Spanish].
Jan. 1988.
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Dec. 1982).
Vol. 5, no. 6 (Jun. 1984); vol. 7, no. 5 (May 1984).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Feb. 1993).
Vol. 2, no. 9 (Sep. 1980).
No. 17 (Apr.May, 1992), 19 (Jun. 1994) [two copies].
No. 2 (Fall 1993).
May 1993.
April 1994.
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Jan 1990), 8 (Jun. 1990).
Vol. 6, no. 1 (Spring 1994).
Mar.Apr. 1981, Fall 1981, Mar. 1982, Jun. 1982, Jul. 1982.
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jun. 1982).
Nov. 1987 [two copies], Dec. 1987 [two copies], May 1988, Jul. 1988, Oct. 1988, May-Jul. 1990, Dec. 1990, Oct. 1992.
Vol. 2, no. 5 (Mar.Apr. 1988), 6 (MayJun. 1988).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Spring 1994).
Spring 1994.
Vol. 1, no. 1 (May 15-28, 1987), 2, 5 (Jul. 10-23, 1987).
No. 82 (Apr. 1994).
Vol. 3, no. 2627 (Jul. 7, 1993); vol. 4, no. 26 (Jun. 27, 1994).
No. 5, Sep.-Oct. 1994.
No. 52 (Feb. 1985), 55 (May-Jun. 1985).
One issue, ca. 1992.
No. 5 (Summer 1992).
No. 3 [ca. 1992].
Vol. 5, no. 5 (Nov.Dec. 1991).
Vol. 1, no. 7 (May 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 6 (Jan. 1985).
May 1991.
Vol. 5, no. 35 (May 1993).
No. 2 (1992).
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Dec. 29, 1989); vol. 2, no. 3 (Feb. 9, 1990), 15-17 (Aug. 24, 1990).
Vol. 1, no. 7 (Apr. 1974), 9-10, 20 (Oct.Nov. 1975).
Jan. 1982.
Vol. 4, no. 3 (Oct. 1987).
Vol. 1, no. 1 [n.d.], 2 (Nov. 1966).
Summer 1985.
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Jun.Jul. 1993).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Spring 1993); vol. 2, no. 1 (Winter 1994).
Apr. 1990, Aug. 1992, May 1994, Jun.1994.
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jan. 1996).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (1989).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jul. 1990).
No. 6, 8 (1994). [No. 6 is a joint issue with Simba (#6, Brighton, United Kingdom) and Girlfriend (#6, Amherst, MA)].
No. 2-3 (Jul. 1981).
Vol. 1, no. 9 (Sep. 1977).
Vol. 24, no. 25 (Jun. 22-28, 1994).
Aug. 1989.
Vol. 4, no. 3 (Mar.Apr. 1994).
No. 38, (Jan. 1989), 40, 42, 55, 58-59 (Apr. 1994).
No. 39 (Jun. 1993).
Vol. 11, no. 2 (Summer 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 4 (Jul. 1993).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Mar. 1988) [two copies].
Vol. 3, no. 6 (Jun. 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Spring 1987), 4-5 (Fall 1987); vol. 2, no. 2 (Winter 1988), 3-4 (Summer 1988).
Vol. 2 (1992), vol. 3 (1993).
Vol. 3, no. 8 (Nov. 6, 1991); vol. 6, no. 7 (Nov. 2, 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 12 (Jun. 1993); vol. 3, no. 5 (Dec. 1993).
No. 21 (Oct. 1984), 22-23 (Dec. 1984), 25 (Jan. 1985); Feb. 1985; no. 123 (Jan. 1994).
Vol. 2 no. 7 (Oct. 1976); vol. 3, no. 5 (Nov. 1977); vol. 4, no. 1 (May 1978), 2-3, 7 (Nov. 1979); vol. 5, no. 1 (1980), 3 (1981), 5 (1982), 6 (Sep. 1982); vol. 6, no. 1 (Dec.Jan. 1983), 3 (Jun.Jul. 1983).
Vol. 6, no. 6 (Feb.Mar. 1984); vol. 7, no. 1 (Apr.May 1984), 2-3 (Aug.Sep. 1984); vol. 8, no. 3 (Winter Catalogue 1985-86), 4 (Jan.Feb. 1986), 6 (MayJun. 1986); vol. 9, no. 1 (Jul.Aug. 1986), 6 (MayJun. 1987); vol. 10, no. 4 (Jan.Feb. 1988), 5-6 (MayJun. 1988); vol. 11, no. 2 (Sep.Oct. 1988), 4 (Jan.Feb. 1989); vol. 15, no. 6 (MayJun. 1993); vol. 16, no. 1 (Jul.Aug. 1993), 5 (Mar.Apr. 1994); vol. 17, no. 1 (Jul.Aug. 1994), 4 (Jan.Feb. 1995).
No. 5 (Spring 1979), 7 [ca. 1980-81], 9 (Sep. 1986). Includes broadside for 1910-20s theme dance, n.d.
No. 17 (Jun. 1993).
Vol 3 no 1 (Mar 18 1993) 5 (Jun 17 1993) vol 4 no 2 (Apr 28 1994) 5 7-8 (Jul 28 1994)
Fall 1994.
Vol. 2, no. 3 (Oct. 1, 1994).
No. 4 (Summer 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 10 (Apr. 1994), 12 (Jun. 1994).
Oct. 1993.
Vol. 8e, no. 2 (Apr. 1993).
2 issues, 1988 [in Hebrew].
No. 2 (Aug. 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 5 (May 1990), 6 (Jun. 1990); Apr. 1994, Jun.-Aug. 1994.
Vol. 4, no. 9 (Sep. 1977); vol. 5, no. 2 (Mar.Apr. 1978), 5 (Jan.Feb. 1979).
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Apr. 1993).
No. 1 (May 1976).
No. 1 (Apr. 16, 1975)-5 (Jun. 11, 1975).
No. 7 (Jul. 9, 1975), 8, 10, 13, 15-18 (Dec. 10, 1975).
No. 38 (Dec.Jan. 198485), 39 (Jan. 1985).
Vol. 1, no. 6 (Sep. 1975); vol. 2, no. 13 (May 1976), 17-21 (Jan. 1977).
Vol. 5, no. 5 (May 1993), 6 (Jun. 1993).
No. 2 (Winter 19921993).
Vol. 2, no. 9 (Feb. 28, 1971).
No. 1 (Mar. 1988).
Vol. 1, no. 5 (Jun. 2-8, 1994), 9 (Jun. 30, 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 11 (Sep. 4, 1980), 23 (Feb. 19, 1980); vol. 3, no. 2 (May 13, 1982), 3 (May 27, 1982).
Vol. 7, no. 8 (Apr. 27, 1984), 10-11, 23 (Nov. 30, 1984); vol. 8, no. 5 (Jul. 5, 1985), 6, 12 (Dec. 1, 1985) [two copies]; vol. 9, no. 10 (May 23, 1986); vol. 13, no. 23 (Nov. 30, 1990); vol. 17, no. 8 (Apr. 14, 1994).
Vol. 5, no. 2 (Summer 1994).
Winter 1980.
May 13, 1993; Jun. 3, 1993; Jun. 24, 1993.
Vol. 3, no. 14A (Jul. 4, 1980), 17, 21-24 (Nov. 21, 1980).
Vol. 3, no. 23 (Mar.Apr. 1982); vol. 5, no. 2 (Mar. 1984), 7 (Sep. 1984); vol. 14, no. 4 (Jun. 1994) [two copies].
Fall-Winter 1990.
NGLTF Policy Institute Action Kit, Spring 1993. Includes planning materials and registration information for the April 21-27 March on Washington.
Summer 1986.
Vol. 8, no. 7 (Apr. 1994).
Feb.Mar. 1994.
Vol. 8, no. 2 (Feb. 1985), 6-8 (Aug. 1985).
Jan. 1995.
Vol. 4, no. 5 (Mar. 1974).
Vol. 1, no. 11 (May 1984).
May 1994, Jul.Aug. 1994, Dec. 1994.
Vol. 1, no. 48 (Jun. 20, 1994).
One issue, ca. 1995.
Vol. 1, no. 26 (Jan. 26-Feb. 11, 1993); vol. 3, no. 20 (Nov. 4, 1994).
May 1993.
Vol. 4, no. 2 (Fall 1987); vol. 5, no. 1 (Summer 1988); vol. 6, no. 6 (Jul.Aug. 1990); vol. 9, no. 4 (Mar.Apr. 1993); vol. 10, no. 4 (Mar.Apr. 1994), 5 (MayJun. 1994); vol. 11, no. 1 (Sep.Oct. 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 8 (Jun. 1994) [Special Gay Games Issue].
Vol. 2, no. 4 (Spring 1987); vol. 5, no. 3 (Winter 1990).
Vol. 13, no. 10 (Dec. 1994Jan. 1995).
Vol. 7, no. 3-4 (SpringSummer 1992); vol. 8, no. 2 (Summer 1993).
No. 2 (Dec. 1994Jan. 1995).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Mar. 1989); vol. 4, no. 4 (May 1992), 6 (Jul.Aug. 1992); vol. 5, no. 2 (Mar. 1993), 3-6 (Aug. 1993).
Vol. 5, no. 7 (Sep. 1993), 8, 10 (Dec. 1993); vol. 6, no. 1 (Jan.Feb. 1994), 2-4 [two copies], 5-9 (Nov. 1994).
Out in New York '94 (June 18-26) Special Supplement, 1994.
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Feb.Mar. 1985), 4-5, 7-8, 14 (Mar. 1988).
No. 68 (Aug. 1986), 69-73, 75-76, 77 [two copies], 78 (Apr. 1988) [two copies].
No. 79 (Jun. 1988), 85, 108, 115 (Jun.Jul. 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Mar. 1993), 3, 8 (Oct. 1993); vol. 3, no. 4 (May 1994), 9 (Nov. 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Spring 1988), 2, 3 [two copies], 4 (Winter 1989); vol. 2 no. 1 (Summer 1989) [two copies], 2-4 (Spring 1990); vol. 3, no. 1 (Summer 1990) [two copies].
Vol. 3, no. 2 (Fall 1990), 3, 3 [sic] (Spring 1991); vol. 4, no. 1 (Summer 1991), 2 [two copies], 3-4 (Spring 1992); vol. 5, no. 1 (Summer 1992) [two copies].
No. 54 (Nov. 1987), 62 (Jul. 1988), Jun. 1989.
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Feb. 1973).
No. 11 (Sept. 4, 1989), 28-29, 50 (Jun. 13, 1990).
No. 51 (Jun. 20, 1990), 54-55, 58-59 (Aug. 15, 1990).
Vol. 2, no. 6 (Apr.-Aug. 1982).
No. 7 (1978); no. 8 (Aug. 1978) [Also known as San Francisco Gay Life].
No. 54 (July 1990).
No. 1 (Summer 1987).
No. 2 (1979).
Mar. 1994.
No. 2 [ca. 1990].
Vol. 31, no. 6 (June 1994). Washington, D.C. Peace Center newsletter.
One issue, ca. 1994.
Vol. 2, no. 1 (MayJun. 1990).
No. 50 (Nov.Dec. 1984), 69-70, 76 (Mar.Apr. 1989).
Vol. 1, no. 7 [ca. 1970s].
Jun. 13, 1986; Jun. 20, 1986.
No. 2 [ca. 1992].
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Jun.Jul. 1994) [two copies].
Vol. 4, no. 19 (Sep. 6, 1985).
No. 3 (1993).
No. 22 (Apr. 1987).
Vol. 3, no. 1 (Winter 1992).
Vol. 2, no. 3-4 (Oct. 1984).
No. 2 (Jul. 1993).
No. 6 (1993).
No. 4 (1992).
No. 10 (Apr. 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 4 [1973], 9 [1977].
Vol. 24, no. 4 (Sep.-Dec. 1990).
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Mar. 1976); vol. 2, no. 3 (May 1976).
No. 123 (Spring 1993).
No. 20 (Apr. 1984), 22-25 (Sep. 1984), 28-29 (Feb. 1985).
No. 54 (SpringSummer 1988), 71 (Fall 1992).
No. 31 (Aug. 1983), 52-53 (Jun.Jul. 1987), 56, 58, 60, 64 (Apr.May 1989).
No. 2 (Spring 1990), 12 [two copies], 13, 16, 18 (1994).
No. 1 (Spring 1993).
Apr. 2, 1976, Apr. 30, Jun. 11, Jun. 25, Jul. 23, 1976.
Aug. 6, 1976, Sep. 17, Oct. 29, Dec. 24, 1976; Jan. 21, 1977, Mar. 18, 1977.
Vol. 3, no. 3, Mar. 1988.
Vol. 11, no. 1 (Spring 1994).
No. 3-4, 4 [sic 5], 6, 1977.
Mar. 1989.
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Jun.Jul. 1982).
Vol. 2, no. 5 (Sep. 1992).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Fall 1990).
Sep. 1994.
Mar.Apr. 1993.
No. 2 (Dec.-Feb. 1995).
No. 15 (May 1982).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Spring 1993)-4 (Winter 1993); Vol. 2, no. 1 (Spring 1994)-2, 4 (Winter 1994).
Aug. 1976.
Vol. 5, no. 1 (Winter 1994).
No. 54, 59-60 [1982].
No. 1 (Winter 1992).
No. 14 (1992).
No. 78 (Oct. 1989), 80, 84, 86 (Summer 1990), 116 (Summer 1993), 122, 124, 125 (May 1994).
No. 1 (Winter 1991).
Vol. 3, no. 1 (Feb. 1983).
Feb. 7, 1992, Sept. 9, 1993.
Vol. 14, no. 48 (Feb. 10-16, 1989).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Sep. 1978).
Winter 1993-94.
Vol. 7, no. 6 (Jun. 1990), 8 (Aug. 1990).
No. 25 (Jun. 20, 1994).
Apr.-Jun. 1988.
No. 5 (Feb. 1983).
Vol. 1, no. 4 [ca. 1980s].
One issue, ca. early 1970s.
Vol. 3, no. 7 (Jun. 1967); vol. 4, no. 8 (Aug. 1968); vol. 5, no. 1 (Jan. 1969), 4, 10, 12 (Dec. 1969); vol. 6, no. 1 (Jan. 1970), 2-8, 9 (Sep. 1970), 9 (Oct. 1970), 11-12 (Dec. 1970); vol. 7, no. 1 (Jan. 1971), 2-6 (Jul. 1971).
Vol. 7, no. 9 (Sep. 1971), 12 (Dec. 1971); vol. 8, no. 1 (Jan. 1972), 2-4, 6-8 (Sep. 1972), 8 (Oct. 1972), 9, 11 (Dec. 1972); vol. 9, no. 1 (Jan. 1973), 2-7 (Jul. 1973), 7 (Aug. 1973), 8-9, 11-12 (Dec. 1973); vol. 10, no. 1 (Jan. 1974), 2-7, 9-12 (Dec. 1974); vol. 11, no. 1 (Jan. 1975), 2-5, 7 [two copies] (Jul. 1975).
Vol. 11, no. 8 (Aug. 1975), 11 (Nov. 1975); vol. 12, no. 1 (Jan.Feb. 1976), 7 (Aug. 1976).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Fall 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Jun. 25, 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 4 (Mar. 1994).
Jun.Jul. 1993.
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Oct. 1985), 3 (Dec. 1985); vol. 2, no. 1 (Jan. 1986), 2 (Feb. 1986).
No. 108 (Sep. 1970), 110-111 (Dec. 1970).
Vol. 1, no. 4 (Jan. 1990).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Fall 1994).
Vol. 6, no. 20 (May 16, 1977).
No. 2 [ca. 1990].
No. 15 (1992), no. 20 (1994).
No. 27 [ca. 1994].
No. 14 (May 19, 1993) [two copies], 15 (Oct. 16, 1993), 16 (May 19, 1994).
Vol. 3, no. 3 (Oct. 1992).
Jul. 30, 1993, Preview Issue.
1973, Premiere Issue.
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Jan.Feb. 1972).
1992
Vol. 4, no. 2 (Feb. 2 1989).
No. 2 (Winter 1985).
Vol. 4, no. 5 (Oct. 1981), Nov. 1981-Dec. 1981; vol. 2, no. 2 (Feb. 1982), 5 (May 1982); Apr. 1984-Jul. 1984, Aug. 1984, Aug. 1984 [sic], Nov. 1984-Dec. 1984; Jan. 1985-Dec. 1985; Jan. 1986-Mar. 1986, May 1986-Jun. 1986, Dec. 1986; Feb. 1987-Jun. 1987, Aug. 1987-Dec. 1987; Jan. 1988-Feb. 1988, Apr. 1988-Jul.Aug. 1988.
(Jul.Aug. 1984).
Jun. 1984 [two copies], Nov. 1984.
Vol. 1, no. 7 (Dec. 1978); Oct. 1980; vol. 3, no. 15, 18-20 (Jun. 1981). Includes Malebox within each issue.
Spring 1993, Jun. 1994.
Spring Summer 1984, Winter 1984-1985, Spring 1985, Summer 1985 [Gay and Lesbian book catalog].
No. 288 (Jul.-Sep. 1988), no. 189 (May-Jun. 1989), Mar. 1989, Oct.-Dec. 1989, 190 (Mar.-May 1990), 193 (Mar.-Jun. 1993), 194 (Feb.-Mar. 1994), 294 (Apr.-May 1994).
Vol. 3, no. 12 (Dec. 1986); vol. 4. no. 1 (Jan. 1987), 2-3, 5-7, 9-12 (Dec. 1987); Feb.-Apr. 1988, Jun.-Jul. 1988.
Aug. 1988, Dec. 1989; Vol. 11, no. 1 (Jan 1993), 8 (Aug. 1993).
Vol. 2, no. 6 (Feb. 11, 1977), 9-11, 13, 16-17, 19, 21-22, 24, 27, 29, 31, 35, 37, 37A, 38, 42, 44, 46, 49-50 (Dec. 16, 1977); vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan. 6, 1978), 2, 29, 36-37, 47 (Nov. 23, 1978); vol. 4, no. 6 (Feb. 9, 1979), 8, 18, 20-21, 23-25, 28-34, 39-41, 43-44 (Nov. 2, 1979).
Vol. 4, no. 45 (Nov. 9, 1979), 47-52 (Dec. 28, 1979); vol. 5, no. 2 (Jan.11, 1980), 3-4, 6-18, 21-22, 24-25, 27, 29 30, 35-38, 41, 43-45, 49 (Dec. 5, 1980).
Jan. 8, 1982; Jan. 15, 1982; Jan. 22, 1982.
Vol. 2, no. 24 (May 14, 1984), 26-46, 47 [two copies], 48-49 [two copies], 50-52 (Nov. 19, 1984) [two copies]; vol. 3, no 2 (Dec. 3, 1984).
Vol. 3, no. 3 (Dec. 10, 1984), 4 [two copies], 5-12, 14-28, 30-33 [two copies], 34 [two copies], 35 [two copies], 36-37 [two copies], 38 [two copies], 39-44 (Sep. 23, 1985).
Vol. 3, no. 45 (Sep. 30, 1985) 49, 51-52 (Nov. 18, 1985); vol. 4, no. 1 (Nov. 25, 1985), 2-3 [two copies], 4 [two copies], 5 [two copies], 6, 8 [two copies], 10-11, 13-17, 20-21, 23-24, 27-28 [two copies], 29, 31-32 (Jun. 30, 1986).
Vol. 4, no. 33 (Jul. 7, 1986); vol. 5, no. 2 (Dec. 1, 1986), 3, [vol. 6, no. 7 (Jan. 4, 1987)], vol. 5, no. 7 (Jan. 5, 1987), 9-15, 18-20, 22, 24-27, 29-31, 36-38 (Aug. 10, 1987), 38 (Aug. 17, 1987), 40-44, 45 [two copies], 46-48 [two copies], 49-52 (Nov. 16, 1987) [two copies]; vol. 6, no. 1 (Nov. 23, 1987) [two copies], 2 [two copies], 4 [two copies], 5 [two copies], 6, 9-10 (Jan. 25, 1988).
Vol. 6, no. 11 (Feb. 1, 1988), 12-22, 24-26, 27 [two copies], 28-30 [two copies], 31-33, 35, 40-41, 45-46, 48, 52 (Nov. 16, 1987) [two copies]; vol. 7, no. 41 (Aug. 28, 1989); vol. 8, no. 9 (Jan. 15, 1990), 31, 35 (Jul. 16, 1990); vol. 11, no. 27 (May 17, 1993), 33 (Jun. 28, 1993); vol. 13, no. 7 (Dec. 26, 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 5 (May 1987), 10 [two copies], 11 (Nov. 15-Dec. 14, 1987) [two copies]; vol. 3, no. 4 (Apr. 15 1988), 5, 7-9 (Sep. 1988); Feb. 1990, May-Aug. 1990; vol. 4, no. 3 (Mar. 15, 1989), 4 (Apr. 15, 1989).
Vol. 4, no. 6 (June 1989); vol. 5, no. 1 (Jan. 1990), 2, 5-8 (Aug. 1990); vol. 7, no. 8 (Aug. 1992), 11-12 (Dec. 1992); vol. 8, no. 1 (Jan. 1993), 5-7, 10 (Oct. 1993); vol. 9, no. 4 (Apr. 1994), 10 (Oct. 1994).
Vol. 3: no. 7 (Jul. 1981), 9-12 (Dec. 1981); vol. 4, no. 5 (May 1982); vol. 6, no. 4 (Apr. 1984), 5 [two copies], 6 [two copies], 7-9 [two copies], 10-12 (Dec. 1984) [two copies]; vol. 7, no. 1 (Jan. 1985), 2 (Feb. 1985); vol. 8, no. 3 (Mar. 1985), 4-6 (Jun. 1985).
Vol. 7, no. 7 (Jul. 1985) [three copies], 8, 9, 12 (Dec. 1985) [two copies]; vol. 8, no. 1 (Jan. 1986) [two copies], 4-5 [two copies], 6, 11-12 (Dec. 1986); vol. 9, no. 1 (Jan. 1987) 5-6 [two copies], 7-11, 12 (Dec. 1987) [two copies]; vol. 10, no. 1 (Jan. 1988) 6, 8-9 (Jul. 15, 1988).
Vol. 11, no. 9 (Jan. 5, 1990), 22 (Aug. 3, 1990); vol. 14, no. 5 (Nov. 6, 1992) 8, 17, 20-21 (Jul. 2, 1993); vol. 15, no. 4 (Oct. 15, 1993), 16-18, 21 (Jul. 15, 1994); vol. 16, no. 1 (Sep. 16, 1994), 2 (Oct. 7, 1994).
Vol. 6, no. 1 (Jan. 15, 1976), 11, 15, 18, 24 (Nov. 24, 1976); vol. 8, no. 1 (Jan. 5, 1978), 2-4, 5 (Mar. 2, 1978).
Vol. 8, no. 6 (Mar. 16, 1978) -15 (Jul. 20, 1978).
Vol. 8, no. 16 (Aug. 3, 1978), 17, 19-20, 22-21, 25 (Dec. 7, 1978); vol. 9, no. 4 (Feb. 15, 1979), 5, 7 (Mar. 29, 1979), 7 (Apr. 12, 1979), 11-12, 17, 23, 25-26 (Dec. 20, 1979); vol. 10, no. 1 (Jan. 3, 1980) [two copies], 2 (three copies), 3, 4 [two copies], 7 (Mar. 27, 1980).
Vol. 10, no. 8 (Apr. 10, 1980) [two copies], 9 [two copies], 10 [two copies], 11 (May 22, 1980), 11 (Jun. 5, 1980), 13-26 (Dec. 18, 1980); vol. 11, no. 1 (Dec. 31, 1980).
Vol. 12, no. 1 (Jan. 7, 1981); vol. 11, no. 3-13, 15-19, 20 [two copies], 21-23 [two copies], 24 [two copies], 25 (Nov. 12, 1981).
Vol. 11, no. 26 (Nov. 19, 1981), 27, 29 [two copies], 30 [two copies], 31-32 (Dec. 30, 1981); vol. 12, no. 2 (Jan. 14, 1982) [two copies], 3 [two copies], 4-5 [two copies], 6-14 (Apr. 8, 1982).
Vol. 12, no. 15 (Apr. 15, 1982), 16 [two copies], 17 [two copies], 18 (May 6, 1982), 18 (May 13, 1982), 20 [two copies], 21-27 [two copies], 28-29 [two copies], 31-34 (Aug. 26, 1982).
Vol. 12, no. 35 (Sep. 2, 1982), 36-48 [two copies], 49 [two copies], 50 [two copies], 51 [two copies], 52 (Dec. 30, 1982) [two copies]; vol. 13, no. 1 (Jan. 6, 1983) [two copies].
Vol. 13, no. 2 (Jan. 13, 1983), 3 [two copies], 4 [two copies], 5 [two copies], 6-11, 12 (Mar. 24, 1983), 12 (Mar. 31, 1983), 14-19 (May 12, 1983), 19 (May 19, 1983), 21-23 (Jun. 9, 1983).
Vol. 13, no. 24 (Jun. 16, 1983), 25-28, 31-36, 37-49 (Dec. 8, 1983).
Vol. 13, no. 50 (Dec. 15, 1983), 51-52 (Dec. 29, 1983); vol. 14, no. 1 (Jan 5, 1985), 2-10 [two copies], 11-21 (May, 24 1984).
Vol. 14, no. 21 (May 24, 1984) [two copies], 22 [two copies], 23-28 [two copies], 29 [two copies], 30 [two copies], 31 [two copies], 32 [two copies], 33 [two copies], 34 [two copies], 35 [two copies] (Aug. 30, 1984).
Vol. 14, no. 36 (Sep. 6, 1984) [two copies], 37 [two copies], 38 [two copies], 39-52 (Dec. 27, 1984).
Vol. 15, no. 1 (Jan. 3, 1985), 4 (Jan. 24, 1985) [sic, no. 5, Jan. 31], 24, 26 [two copies], 27-28 [two copies], 29-31, 39-46 (Nov. 14, 1985).
Vol. 15, no. 47 (Nov. 21, 1985), 48-49 (Dec. 5, 1985); vol. 16, no. 1 (Jan 2, 1986), 2 [two copies], 3-15 (Apr. 10, 1986).
Vol. 16, no. 16 (Apr. 17, 1986), 17 [two copies], 18-19 [two copies], 20 [two copies], 21 [two copies], 22-26 [three copies] (Jun. 26, 1986).
Vol. 16, no. 26 (Jun. 26, 1986), 27-28 [two copies], 29-33 (Aug. 14, 1986), 33 (Aug. 21, 1986), 35-38 (Sep. 18, 1986), 38 (Sep. 25, 1986), 40-48, (Nov. 26, 1986).
Vol. 16, no. 49 (Dec. 4, 1988), 50-52 (Dec. 25, 1986), vol. 16, no. 1 (Jan. 1, 1987); vol. 17, no. 2 (Jan. 8, 1987), 3-6, 7 [two copies], 8-19 (May 7, 1987).
Vol. 17, no. 20 (May 14, 1987), 21-22 [two copies], 23 [two copies], 24-29 [two copies], 30-40 (Oct. 1, 1987).
Vol. 17, no. 41 (Oct. 8, 1987), 42-47, 50, 53 (Dec. 31, 1987); vol. 18, no. 17 (Apr. 28, 1988); vol. 20, no. 1 (Jan. 4, 1990), 2-10, 13-14 (Apr. 5, 1990).
Vol. 20, no. 15 (Apr. 12, 1990), 16-34 (Aug. 23, 1990).
Vol. 20, no. 36 (Sep. 6, 1990), 37-44 (Nov. 1, 1990); vol. 21, no. 52 (Dec. 26, 1991); vol. 22, no. 20 (May 14, 1992), 45, 49-50 (Dec. 10, 1992); vol. 23, no. 4 (Jan. 28, 1993), 18, 24, 34-35 (Sep. 2, 1993); vol. 24, no. 16 (Apr. 21, 1994), 17 (Apr. 28, 1994).
Vol. 24, no. 41 (Oct. 13, 1994), 46-48 (Dec. 1, 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 8 (Apr. 12-25, 1984), 9-10, 18-26 (Dec. 20, 1984-Jan. 9 1985); vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan. 10-23, 1985), 3-4 (Feb. 21, 1985- Mar. 7, 1985).
Vol. 3, no. 5 (Mar. 7-20, 1985) 4-25 (Aug. 27-Sep. 5 1985).
Vol. 3, no. 25 (Aug. 27-Sep. 5, 1985), 26 [two copies], 28 [two copies], 29-42 (Dec. 23, 1985- Jan 1, 1986); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jan. 2-8, 1986) 2-6, 8-9, 11-14 (Apr. 3-9, 1986).
Vol. 4, no. 16 (Apr. 17-23, 1986), 17-19, 21-24, 47, 49, 51 (Dec. 18-22, 1986); vol. 5, no. 3 (Jan. 15-28, 1987), 5-8, 13-19, 22 (Jun. 4-10, 1987).
Vol. 5, no. 23 (Jun. 11-17, 1987), 25-26, 28-29, 31-32, 34-51 (Dec. 22, 1987- Jan. 6, 1988); vol. 6, no. 25 (Jun. 23-29, 1988), 26-27, 29 (Jul. 21-27, 1988).
Vol. 6, no. 30 (Jul. 28-Aug. 3, 1988), 31-35 (Sep. 1-7, 1988); vol. 10, no. 46 (Nov. 12-18, 1992), 49 (Dec. 3-9, 1992) [two copies]; vol. 11, no. 1 (Dec. 23, 1992-Jan. 6, 1993), 19, 25, 42 (Oct. 14-20, 1993); vol. 12, no. 6 (Feb. 3-9, 1994), 9, 16-17 [two copies], 18 (Apr. 28- May 4, 1994).
Vol. 12, no. 18 (Apr. 28-May 4, 1994), 19-29 (Jul. 14-20, 1994), 29 (Jul. 21-27, 1994), 30 (entertainment section only), 31-32 (Aug. 4-10, 1994).
Vol. 12, no. 33 (Aug. 11-17, 1994), 34-40, 41 [two copies], 46 (Nov. 10-16, 1994).
Vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan.Feb., 1983); vol. 4, no. 2 (Feb.Mar., 1984), 3 (Apr.May, 1984); vol. 6, no. 1 (Spring 1986); vol. 7, no. 1 (Summer 1987).
Apr. 1993 [two copies], MayJun. 1993, Special Pride Edition (May 28-30, 1993); Vol. 1, no. 3 (Jun.Jul. 1993), 4 (Jul.Aug. 1993), 5 (Special Commemoration Edition, Sep. 1993).
No. 10 (Sep. 1989), 11 (Oct. 1989); vol. 2, no. 518 (May 1990), 619 (Jun. 1990); vol. 5, no. 341 (Mar. 1994) [two copies].
No. 104 (Jun. 1984), 105, 109, 116-117, 119 (Oct. 1985).
No. 9 (Winter 1981).
No. 2 (Spring 1987).
Mar. 9, 1994.
Vol. 2, no. 3 (Apr. 1971), 5; vol. 3, no. 5 (Jun.Jul. 1972), 8; vol. 4, no. 1 [no. date], 2-4, 5 (Dec.1973- Feb. 1974); vol. 5, no. 2 (Jul.-Nov. 1974).
Vol. 5, no. 30 (Dec. 29, 1983-Jan. 4, 1984); vol. 6, no. 5 (Feb. 2-8, 1984) [two copies], 7, 10, 15 [two copies], 17 [two copies],18 [two copies], 19 [two copies], 20 [two copies], 21 [two copies], 22-23 [two copies], 25-26 (Jun. 28- Jul. 4, 1984) [two copies].
No. 96 (Dec. 1983), 98-101 (May 1984).
No. 102 (Jun. 1984) 103-107, 109, 112-120, 124, 128 (Aug. 1986).
No. 130 (Oct. 1986), 134-136, 140 [two copies], 141-143 [two copies], 145 [two copies], 192 (Mar. 1992).
Jun. 26, 1981-Dec. 18, 1981; Jan. 8, 1982-Mar. 19, 1982; No. 38 (Mar. 26, 1982), 39-42, 45-49, 51-54 (Jul. 30, 1982).
No. 55 (Aug. 6, 1982), 56-63, 65-73, 122, 129, 140-141, 150, 152, 154, 156, 160-161, 163, 166-167, 171, 173-175, 178-179, 205, 6c00 (Jun. 25, 1993).
No. 46 (Jun. 1980), 47-50, 52, 55, 59, 60-67 (May 1982).
Vol. 3, no. 3 (Mar. 2, 1984), 5-6, 8-9 (issue 43), 10 (issue 43), issue 45 (Dec. 1, 1984).
Vol. 1, no. 26 (May 18, 1984); vol. 2, no. 1 (Jun.1, 1984), 2-17 (Jan. 11, 1985); Seattle Sea Fair supplement, 1984 [guide to event]. Title change in 1985 to Eagle Magazine. Includes Eagle Magazine, No. 1, Collector's Issue, (Jan. 1985).
Vol 1 no 4 (Jun 20-26 1994) [no apparent queer content]
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Sep. 1980).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Jul. 2, 1982).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Sep. 1980), 3 [two copies], 9-11 (Nov. 1981), special 1981 Castro Street Fair Program (Aug. 16, 1981); vol. 2, no. 1 (Jan. 1982); Jul. 1982, Aug.Sep. 1982, Oct. 1982, Dec. 1982, Feb. 1983.
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Jul. 18, 1975), 4, 13 (Dec. 10, 1975); vol. 3, no. 6 (Sep. 2, 1977), 7-8, 12, 17-18, 31-32, 34-35, 37, 40 (Jun. 16, 1978); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jun. 23, 1978), 5, 11-12, 14, 30 (Jan. 12, 1979); vol. 6, no. 2 (Jun. 27, 1980), 6, 34-35, 47 (May 15, 1981); vol. 7, no. 1 (Jun. 19, 1981), 2-4, 5 (Jul. 17, 1981).
Vol. 7, no. 5 (Jul. 24, 1981), 7-10, 12-14, 16-24, 26, 28-33, 35-40, 43, 45-46 (Apr. 30, 1982).
Vol. 7, no. 47 (May 7, 1982), 50-51 (Jun. 4, 1982); vol. 8, no. 36 (Feb. 17, 1983), 37 (Feb. 24, 1983); vol. 9, no. 36 (Mar. 8, 1984), 37, 43-45, 46 [two copies], 47 [two copies], 48 [two copies], 49-50 [two copies], 51 (Jun. 21, 1984) [two copies]; vol. 10, no. 2 (Jul. 12, 1984), 3-4, 6-7, 9-20 (Nov. 15, 1984).
Vol. 10, no. 21 (Nov. 22, 1984) [two copies], 22 [two copies], 23 (two copies), 24-25, 28-30, 32-44, 46 [two copies], 47 [two copies], 48 [two copies], 49, 50 (two copies), 51[two copies], 52 (Jun. 27, 1985) [two copies]; vol. 11, no. 1 (Jul. 4, 1985) (two copies), 2 (Jul. 11, 1985) [two copies].
Vol. 11, no. 3 (Jul. 18, 1985) [two copies], 4 [two copies], 7-11, 14-15, 17-24, 26, 29-30 (Jan. 16, 1986).
Premiere issue [ca. 1992].
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Oct. 25-Nov. 21, 1985), 2, 4-9 (Jun. 20-Jul. 18, 1986); vol. 2, no. 3 (Dec. 1986-Jan. 1987), 4-5 (Feb.Mar. 1987).
Apr. 4-17, 1978; Apr. 18-May 1, 1978; May 17-30, 1978; May 30-Jun. 12, 1978; Jun. 27-Jul.11, 1978; no. 118-119, 122-124, 129 (Dec. 27, 1978).
No. 7 (Sep. 1987) [special publication of the LA National March on Washington chapter].
Vol. 1, no. 10 (Jun. 1982).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (1973); vol. 4, no. 11 (Aug. 1976), 15, 17 (Nov. 1976); vol. 5, no. 7 (Jul. 1977); vol. 6, no. 5 (Jun. 1978); vol. 7, no. 13 (Sep. 1979); vol. 8, no. 3 (May 1980); vol. 10, no. 2 (Apr. 1982), 6 (Jun. 1982); vol. 11, no. 23 (Feb. 1984) [two copies]; vol. 15, no. 20 (Dec. 1987).
Vol. 3, no. 13 (May 30-Jun. 13, 1984), 14 (Jun. 13-27, 1984); vol. 4, no. 2 (Dec. 14-28, 1984), 11-13 (Aug. 19, 1985).
No. 4 (Jun. 1974), 5, 10, 12 (May 7, 1975).
No. 1.2 (Nov. 1994).
No. 88 (May 11, 1984), 89-93 (Jun. 15, 1984).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (May 11, 1984), 2-5, 8-11, 13-15, 19-25, 26 [includes Dallas Gay Political Caucus Election News (DGPC) insert], 27-32, 35-40 (Feb. 8, 1985).
Vol. 1, no. 41 (Feb. 15, 1985), 42-52 (May 3, 1985); vol. 2, no. 1 (May 10, 1985), 3, 10, 16-17, 20-23, 25-27, 28 [two copies], 30-32, 35, 40 (Feb. 7, 1986).
Vol. 2, no. 41 (Feb. 14, 1986), 42-43, 46-48, 51-53 (May 9, 1986); vol. 3, no. 2 (May 16, 1986), 3-7, 28, 33-37, 42-43, 46, 48-52 (May 1, 1987); vol. 4 no. 1 (May 8, 1987), 2-3 (May 22, 1987).
Vol. 4, no. 5 (Jun. 5, 1987), 6-7 (Jun. 19, 1987), 7 (Jun. 26, 1987), 9, 12, 16 (Sep. 4, 1987), 16 (Sep. 11, 1987), 17 (Aug. 28, 1987), 20-21, 24-26 (Oct. 30, 1987).
Vol. 4e (May 1983); Jan. 1987 [title change to Ma Gay Zine] [two copies]; vol. 8ec (Jun. 1987) [two copies]; Jul. 1987.
Aug.-Oct. 1987; no. 98 (Jan. 1988), 99-103, 105-106, 110-111 (Jul. 16, 1988).
Vol. 1, no. 1 [ca. 1980]. America's leading journal for lesbian and gay hotel, restaurant, and bar employees.
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Dec. 23, 1987).
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Sep. 15, 1972), 4, 6, 8 (Jun. 15, 1973).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (MayJun. 1973).
Jun. 1994.
No. 41 (Dec. 20, 1984-Jan. 9, 1985), 117, 208 (Jul. 4, 1991).
No. 125 (Mar. 1982), 127, 148-151, Aug. 1984 special issue, 152-168 (Mar. 1986).
Vol. 1, no. 25 (Jan. 31, 1971); no. 52 (Feb. 1972), 55, 58-59, 61-63, 67-68, 70, 72, 81, 119, 121, 127 (Apr. 11, 1975).
No. 5 (Jun. 2, 1982), 55, 56, 57, 58, 62 [two copies], 63 [two copies], 65-75, 77-90, 91-92 (Oct. 16, 1985), 92 (Feb. 5, 1986), 93 (Oct. 30, 1985), 95-96, 98 (Jan. 8, 1986).
No. 99, 101, 103-105, 107-110, 125-127, 129-145, 146 [two copies], 147 [two copies], 150-159 (May 11, 1988).
No. 159 (May 11, 1988), 160-163, 165-167, 276, 278, 331 (Apr. 21-29, 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 2 (Mar. 12, 1988) [two copies], 3 (Apr. 12, 1988).
No. 15 (1993), 20-21 (1994).
No. 6-7, 9-10 [ca. 1975].
Vol. 1, no. 6 (Aug. 1971); vol. 2, no. 4 (Apr. 1972), 5-6 (Jun. 1972).
Vol. 2, no. 7 (Jul. 1972), 10 (Oct. 1972); vol. 3, no. 4 (Apr. 1973), 10, 12 (Dec. 1973).
Vol. 4, no. 2 (Feb. 1- 21, 1983), 3 (Feb. 22 - Mar. 14, 1983); vol. 5, no. 3 (Feb. 21 - Mar. 12, 1984), 4, 10-11 (Jun. 26 - Jul. 9, 1984); vol. 8, no. 6 (Apr. 7 - 20, 1987), 7, 10, 17-19, 21 (Dec. 1 - 14, 1987); vol. 9, no. 7 (Apr. 19 - May 2, 1988), 8, 12-13, 16 (Sep. 20 - Oct. 3, 1988); vol. 10, no. 5 (Mar. 21 - Apr. 3, 1989), 6, 13-14, 18, 22 (Dec. 19 - Jan. 8, 1989); vol. 11, no. 11 (Jun. 5 - 18, 1990), 12, 14 (Jul. 24 - Aug. 6, 1990); vol. 13, no. 20 (Oct. 30, 1992), 22 (Nov. 27, 1992); vol. 14, no. 8 (Apr. 30, 1993).
Vol. 14, no. 12 (June 25, 1993); vol. 15, no. 5 (Mar. 11, 1994), 18 (Sep. 30, 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 13 (Jun.1993).
Vol. 3, no. 9 (Jul. 11-18, 1984), 3233, 39 (Feb 6-13, 1985); vol. 4, no. 15 (Oct. 2-16, 1985); vol. 6, no. 5 (Jul. 1-15, 1987), 12, 14, 15, 18 (Dec. 30, 1987- Jan. 13, 1989); vol. 7, no. 1 (May 1-14, 1988); vol. 12, no. 1( May 7-21, 1993).
Vol. 12, no 9 (Aug. 27 - Sep. 10, 1993); vol. 12, no. 27 (May 6-20, 1994); vol. 13, no. 14 (Nov. 18, 1994).
Oct. 1988 [two copies].
No. 43 (Oct. 1982); 117 (Apr. 28-May 4, 1984), 133, 135, 144-147, 264 (Apr. 4 -10, 1987).
Vol. 3, no. 73 (Apr. 3, 1972).
Apr. 1993 [in English].
One issue [1970].
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Aug. 6, 1981), 2, 5-6, 8-9 [two copies], 12 (Jan. 8, 1982), Memorial Issue (Jan. 15, 1982).
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Dec. 1-15, 1971).
No. 5 (May 1983).
Aug. 19, 1993.
Jun. 1979, Nov. 1979 - Feb. 1980, Apr. 1980.
Vol. 2, no. 9 (Jun. 1978).
Vol. 1, no. 9 (Jun. 1977), 10 (Jul. 1977); vol. 2, no. 1 (Oct. 1977), 2, 8, 11 (Aug. 1978); vol. 3, no. 3 (Dec. 1978).
Vol. 3, no. 15 (Jul. 13, 1979), Jun. 1977 insert, 17, 20-22 (Oct. 19 - Nov. 1, 1979); vol. 4, no. 1 (Nov. 2-15, 1979), 3-14 (May 15, 1980).
Vol. 4, no. 15 (May 29, 1980), 16-20, 25-26 (Oct. 31, 1980); vol. 5, no. 1 (Nov. 13, 1980), 7-8, 15, 18 [two copies], 22-26 (Oct. 16-29, 1981); vol. 6, no. 1 (Oct. 30 - Nov. 12, 1981), 2-6, 8-10 (Mar. 5-18, 1982).
Vol. 6, no. 11 (Mar. 19 - Apr. 1, 1982), 12, 14-16 [section two only] (May 14-27, 1982).
No. 17 (Jan. 4, 1975), 22-25, 27-28, 30-31, 33-36 (Sep. 1976); no. 1 (Oct. 1976), 2 (Nov 1976); vol. 1, no. 7 (Apr. 1977), 8 (May 1977).
Vol. 1, no. 8 (May 1982); vol. 3, no. 7 (Apr. 1984), 8, Pride Week Special Issue (June 15-24, 1984), 10-12 (Sep. 1984); vol. 4, no. 1 (Oct. 1984), 2, [3] (Dec. 1984), 4-10 [two copies], 11-12 (Sep. 1985); vol. 5, no. 1 (Oct. 1985), 2, 4, 6-8 (Jun. 1986); vol. 6, no. 3 (Jan. 1987), 4-7 (May 1987), 7 (Jun. 1987), 10-11 (Sep. 1987); vol. 7, no. 1 (Oct. 1987), 2 (Nov. 1987) [two copies], 3 (Dec. 1987).
Vol. 7, no. 4 (Jan. 1988), 5-8 [two copies], 9 [Title change to The Lesbian-Gay News Telegraph], 10-11 (Aug. 1988) [two copies]; vol. 9, no. 9 (Jun. 1990), vol. 10, no. 4 (Jan. 1991), 5 (Feb. 1991); vol. 11, no. 2 (Nov. 1991), 4-6, 9-10 (Jul. 1992), vol. 12, no. 2 (Nov. 1992) [two copies], 12 (Sep. 1993); vol. 13, no. 8 (Jan. 28-Feb. 10, 1994).
Vol. 13, no. 9 (Feb. 10-24, 1994), 10, 14, 20 (Jul. 22-Aug. 11, 1994); vol. 14, no. 1 (Oct. 14-27, 1994), 3 [Title change to News-Telegraph], 5-6, 9-10, 12-13, 15-16, 20-22, 24 (Sep. 22- Oct. 12, 1995); vol. 15, no. 1 (Oct. 13-26, 1995), 2, 5-9, 12, 16 (May 24-Jun. 23, 1996).
Vol. 15, no. 19 (Jul. 12-25, 1996), 20-23 (Sep. 13-26, 1996); vol. 16, no. 4 (Nov. 22-Dec. 12, 1996), 5, 7, 9-10, 13, 17-18, 21 (Aug. 8-21, 1997); vol. 17, no. 4 (Nov. 28-Dec. 11, 1997), 6-8, 11, 13-14, 15, 17, 19-20, 22-24 (Sep. 25-Oct. 8, 1998); vol. 18, no.1 (Oct. 9-22, 1998) [two copies].
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Apr. 1, 1985), 6, 9 (Oct. 1985), vol. 3, no. 4 (Oct. 1987), 5-6, 8-11 (Jun. 1988); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jul. 1988), 3 (Sep. 1988); vol. 8, no. 12 (Jun. 11, 1993); vol. 9, no. 21 (Apr. 22, 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 47; vol. 3, no. 13 [ca. 1970-71].
Aug. 1978 (Fall 1978).
Vol. 2, no.10 [1972]; vol. 3, no. 1; vol. 11, no. 3 (Aug. 1980), 4 (Sep. 1980); vol. 18, no. 6 (Nov. 1987).
No. 13 (Mar.-Apr., 1984), 14, 16-17-27, 29, 31-34, 36, 43, 46-47, 50-52 (Aug. 1990).
No. 78 (Feb. 1985), 82, 140, 187-188 (May 1994).
No. 182 (Jun. 20, 1991).
Vol. 1, no. 6 (Mar. 1972), 7 (Apr. 1972).
36 (Oct. 24, 1977), 59, 67-68, 71, 89, 91 (Nov. 20, 1978).
Vol. 1, no. 19 (Feb. 11, 1971), 26, 31, 39, 41 (Sep. 23, 1971); vol. 2 (Feb. 24, 1972), 3, 5-6, 8-13 (Oct. 5, 1972).
Vol. 1, no. 10 (Sep 1980); vol. 2, no. 1 (Dec. 1980), 2, 5, 7-12 (Dec. 1981); vol. 3, nos. 1 & 2 (Jan. 1982-Feb. 1982), 3, 5 (May 1982); vol. 5, no. 5 (May 1984); vol. 6, no. 7-9 (Nov. 1984).
Vol. 6, no. 1 (Jan. 1985), 3-11 (Nov. 1985), vol. 7, no. 1 (Dec. 1985), 4 (Mar. 1986); [Aids Update] vol. 2, no. 3 (Fall, 1987); vol. 8, no. 3 (Feb. 1987), 12 (Nov. 1987); vol. 9, no. 1 (Dec. 1987), 7 (Jun. 1988), 7 (Jul.-Aug 1988).
Vol. 2, no. 20 (May 14-20, 1981), 25, 37-38, 40-52 (Dec. 24-30, 1981); vol. 3, no. 1 (Dec. 30-Jan. 6, 1982), 2, 15-16, 22 (Jun. 2, 1982).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jun. 26, 1980), 2-3 (Oct. 21, 1980) [two copies].
Vol. 1, no. 12 (Mar. 1980), 13-14 (May 1980); vol. 2, no. 2 (Jul. 7, 1980), 3-4 (Sep. 1980), 4 (Feb. 1981), 5, 13-15, 17, 20 (Oct. 19, 1981); vol. 3, no. 1 (Nov. 2, 1981), 3-7, 9, 12-14 (May 17, 1982); 92 (May 7, 1984), 93, 95-1c00, 102-112, 115-135 (Feb. 17, 1986).
No. 139 (Apr. 21, 1986), 140, 142-143, 154, 157, 159-167, 169-171, 177-192, 194-196 (Sep. 6, 1988).
Summer 1993.
Vol. 1, no. 7 (Dec. 15, 1984), 8-10 (Mar. 15, 1985); vol. 3, no. 11 (Apr. 17, 1987); vol. 4, no. 4 (Oct. 23, 1987). Title change to GT! in 1987.
Vol. 3, no. 6 (Jun. 1994).
Aug. 1981.
Vol. 1, no. 6 (Jun.1990), 7-8 (Aug. 1990).
Vol. 2, no. 8 (Apr. 1976), 9, 12 (Aug. 1976); vol. 3, no. 6 (Feb. 1977), 8-9, 12 (Aug. 1977); vol. 4 no. 1 (Sep. 1977), 2 (Nov. 1977); vol. 5 May 1979, no. 11 (Jun. 1979), 12 (Jul. 1979); vol. 6, no. 2 (Sep. 1979), 3-4 (Nov. 1979).
Vol. 6, no. 5 (Dec. 1979), 7 (Apr. 1980); vol. 7, no. 6 (Apr. 1981), 6 (May 1981), 7-8 (Jul. 1981); vol. 8, no. 1 (Sep. 1981), 2-5 (Feb. 1982); Apr.May 1982.
No. 5.5 (Mar. 1990).
Vol. 3, no. 12 (Dec. 1979); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jan. 1980); vol. 3, no. 2 (Mar. 1980), 3, 10 (Oct. 1980); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jan. 1981), 1981 Mardi Gras Special, 10 (Oct. 1981); vol. 8, no. 5 (Mar. 2-15, 1984); vol. 11, no. 17 (Apr. 10-23, 1987); vol. 19, no. 11 (May 27-Jun. 9, 1994). Includes L'Art de Vivre [city arts supplement], Dec. 1979, Jan. 1980.
Vol. 2, no. 1 (May 19, 1984), 4 (Aug. 1984).
Vol. 3, no. 7 (Oct. 18, 1993).
Vol. 2, no. 4 (Apr. 1994), 5 (May 1994).
Vol. 6, no. 12 (Jun. 16-29, 1988).
Vol. 7, no. 6 (Sep. 1980), 8 (Nov.Dec. 1980).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Fall 1983), 4 (Summer 1984); vol. 2, no. 2 (Winter 1985); vol. 3, no. 3 (Spring 1986); vol. 4, no. 3 (Spring 1987); vol. 5, no. 1 (Fall 1987), 2, 3 (SpringSummer 1988), 2 (Winter 1989); vol. 7, no. 3 (Spring 1990); vol. 10, no. 3 (Spring 1993); vol. 11, no. 3 (Spring 1994), 4 (Summer 1994).
Vol. 10, no. 12 (May 1, 1993); vol. 11, no. 12 (Apr. 15, 1994); vol. 12, no. 5 (Jan. 6, 1995).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jan. 21-Feb. 4, 1972), 3 (Feb. 18-Mar. 10, 1972); K8 (May 12, 1972), K9-11, K13, K16 (Sep. 11, 1972), K16 (Sep. 27, 1972), K20-21, K23-24, K26 (Jan. 17, 1973); vol. 2, no. B1 (Feb. 2, 1973), B2-4, B5 [two copies], B6 (Apr. 13, 1973).
Vol. 2, no. B7 (Apr. 25, 1973), B10-11, B13, B16-21, B24, B26 (Jan. 18, 1974); vol. 3, no. G1 (Feb. 1, 1974), G2, G8, G14, G20-21 (Oct. 25, 1974); vol. 3, no. L1 (Jan. 24, 1975); vol. 4, no. L2 (Feb. 7, 1975), L3-L8; May 30, 1975; L14 (Jul. 25, 1975), L14 (Aug. 8, 1975), L23-24 (Dec. 11, 1975); vol. 5, no. O1 (Jan. 23, 1976), O2 (Feb. 6, 1976), O2 (Feb. 20, 1976), O4, O6-9 (May 14, 1976) [two copies].
Vol. 5, no. O10 (May 28, 1976) [two copies], O11-14 [two copies], O15, O17, O19-26 (Jan. 7, 1977) [two copies]; vol. 5, no. E1 (Jan. 21, 1977), E4-5, E7-8, E10; Jun. 24, 1977 [two copies]; Jul. 8, 1977; E14, E16 (Aug. 19, 1977), E16 (Sep. 2, 1977), E18, E20-23 (Nov. 23, 1977), E23 (Dec. 9, 1977), E2 (Dec. 23, 1977); vol. 7, no. F1 (Jan. 13, 1978).
Vol. 7, no. F2 (Jan. 27, 1978), F3-5 (Mar. 10, 1978), F5 (Mar. 17, 1978); vol. 7, no. 7, 8-10 (Apr. 21, 1978).
Vol. 13, no. 6 (1992); vol. 14, no. 1 (1993); Includes Kom Ut! International (Feb. 1993).
Dec. 1981, Mar. 1982.
Vol. 2, no. 9 (Nov. 1977); vol. 3, no. 6 (Jun. 1978) [two copies], 8, 11 (Nov. 1978); vol. 4, no. 6 (Jul. 1980) [sic, 1979], 8-9 (Sep. 1979); vol. 6, no. 1 (Jan. 1981), 15-16, 21-22 (Dec. 4, 1981); vol. 7, no. 1 (Jan. 22, 1982), 4, 8-9, 14 (Aug. 6, 1982); vol. 8, no. 4 (Feb. 18, 1983).
S1.01 (1987) [three copies], Prototype (May 1987) [three copies]; Vol. 1, no. 3 (1988), 4-5 [three copies], 6 (1988) [four copies].
Fall 1990,Winter 1990, Holiday 1991, Summer 1991, Fall 1992, Holiday 1992, Summer 1992, Summer 1993 (three copies), Spring 1993, Winter 1993, Fall 1994, Summer 1994.
Vol. 5, no. 2 (Mid-Jun. 1993); vol. 6, no. 6 (Mid-Oct. 1994), 8 (Mid-Dec. 1994).
No. 16 (Jun. 1987), 19, 21-22 [two copies], 23-27 [two copies], 28, 30-31 (Nov. 1989).
No. 87 (May 1993), 88, 98 (Apr. 1994).
Vol. 3, no. 7 (Dec. 1974); vol. 4, no. 4 (Aug. 1975), 5 (Dec. 1975).
Course catalog, 1974; catalog Sep.Oct. 1978.
No. 6 (Spring 1984), 7, 11, 21-23, 31, 42-43, 46 (Spring 1994).
Vol. 13, no. 6 (Jan. 1988); vol. 18, no. 10 (May 1993); vol. 20, no. 1 (Aug. 1994), 4, 6 (Jan. 1995).
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Aug. 1993) [National Edition].
No. 24 (Mar. 30- Apr. 12 1984).
Feb. 1994.
No. 19 (Jun. 1980); 18 (1981).
Vol. 4, no. 4 (Aug. 1982), 5, 8 (Dec. 1982).
Vol. 2, no. 5 (Spring 1984).
Vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan. 1, 1992).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Feb. 1977), no. 6 (Jun. 1977); vol. 3, no. 4 (Apr. 1978).
Vol. 1, no. 5 (1981), 6-7 (1981).
Vol. 1, no. 32 (Sep. 4, 1985), 34 (Sep. 18, 1985); vol. 7, no. 43 (Nov. 20, 1990), 44 (Nov. 27, 1990).
No. 7 (May 1979), 8-9, 11-17, 19, 21-22, 24-25, 31-32 (Jul. 1981), 32 (Sep. 1981), 33, 35-36, 38, 40, 43-44, 48, 64, 66- 67 (Jul. 1984).
No. 68 (Aug. 1984), 69-71, 82-85, 89-90 [two copies], 91 [two copies], 1c00, 102-104, 106 (Sep. 1987), 106 (Oct. 1987), 107-110, 112-116 (Aug. 1988).
No. 35 (Mar. 11-17, 1977), 38, 40-46, 48-49 (Jun. 23, 1977).
No. 50 (Jun. 30, 1977), 51-56, 62, 169, 172, 175-177, 186, 188-189, 192-193, 195 (Jun. 12, 1980).
No. 16 (Feb. 13, 1981), 17, 35-45, 47-48, 50-55 (Nov. 13, 1981).
No. 56 (Nov. 20, 1981), 57-67, 69-71, 73, 76, 80, 82, 185-190, 195-207 (Oct. 12, 1984).
No. 208 (Oct. 19, 1984), 209-216, 219, 221-241, 243-248, 250-253 (Aug. 30, 1985).
No. 254 (Sep. 6, 1985), 255-268, 270-272, 274-279, 281-284 (Apr. 4, 1986).
No. 285 (Apr. 11, 1986), 287-288, 290, 294-295, 317-318, 319-B, 321-B, 322-323, 325-B, 326-B, 328, 330, 332-334, 336-341, 343-349, 351-352 (Jul. 24, 1987).
No. 353 (Jul. 31, 1987), 354-356, 358-375, 377-381 (Feb. 12, 1988).
No. 383 (Feb. 26, 1988), 384-402, 405, 408-410 (Sep. 2, 1988). Includes Calendar Fiesta Guide.
Summer 1992, Summer 1993.
No. 4 (Dec. 1980-Jan. 1981).
Vol. 5, no. 9 (Sep. 1984) [two copies], 10-11 (Nov. 1984); vol. 6, no. 1 (Jan. 1985), 2-5 (May 1985).
No. 93 (Mar. 18, 1984), 95-96 (May 16-30, 1984).
Vol. 2, no. 26issue 51 (Nov. 22-Dec. 5, 1982); vol. 3, no. 1issue 52 (Dec. 5-19, 1982); 252, no. 354, no. 455, no. 556, no. 657, no. 758, no. 859, no. 960, no. 1061, no. 1162, no. 1263, no. 1566, no. 1667 (July 4-17, 1983).
Vol. 3, no. 17issue 68, no. 1869, no. 1970, no. 2071, no. 2172 (Sept. 12-25, 1983); vol. 4, no. 8issue 85 (Mar. 12-25, 1984), no. 986, no. 1289, no. 1390, no. 1491, no. 1592, no. 1693 (July 2-15, 1984).
Vol. 4, no. 18 issue 95 (Jul. 30 - Aug. 12, 1984), no. 2097, no. 2198, no. 2299, no. 24101 (Oct. 22 - Nov. 4, 1984); issue 104 (Dec. 3-16, 1984), vol. 5, no. 2 issue 105 (Dec. 17-30, 1984), no. 13119 [two copies], no. 14120 [two copies], no. 19122, no. 27133 (Nov. 4-10, 1985); vol. 6, no. 11issue 148 (Feb. 17-23, 1986).
Vol. 6, no. 150 issue 150 (Mar. 3, 1986), no. 18156, no. 20158, no. 21159, issue 160 (May 12, 1986), no. 25163 (June 2, 1986); vol. 7, no. 19issue 209 (Apr. 20, 1987), no. 20210, no. 21211, no. 23213, no. 25215, no. 26216, no. 27#217, no. 28218, no. 29219, issue 229 (Sept. 7, 1987), issue 230 (Sept. 14, 1987); vol. 7, no. 41231, no.42232 (Sept. 28, 1987).
Vol. 7, no. 43issue 233 (Oct. 5, 1987), issue 234 (Oct. 12, 1987), no. 45235, no. 46236, no. 48238, no. 49239, no. 52242 (Dec. 7, 1987); vol. 8, no. 1 issue 243 (Dec. 14, 1987), no. 2244, no. 5247, no. 8250, no. 9251, no. 11253, no. 12254, no. 13255, no. 14256, no. 15257, issue 258 (Mar. 28, 1988), no. 18260, no. 19261 (Apr. 19, 1988).
Vol. 8, no. 20issue 262 (Apr. 25, 1988), no. 21263, no. 22264, no. 23265, no. 24266, no. 25267, no. 26268, no. 27269, no. 28270, no. 29271, no. 30272, no. 31273, no. 32274, no. 33275, no. 34276, no. 35277 (Aug. 8, 1988).
Vol. 8, no. 36issue 278 (Aug. 15, 1988), no. 37279, no. 38280, no. 39281, no. 43285, no. 44286 (Oct. 10, 1988); vol.11, no. 34433 (Aug. 5, 1991), no. 485c00, no. issue 504 (Dec. 14, 1992); vol. 12, no. 1issue 505 (Dec. 21, 1992), no. 23526 (May 17, 1993); vol. 14issue 21 (May 2, 1994), no. 22577, no. 24579, no. 29584 (Jun. 27, 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 26 (Aug. 18, 1988); vol. 3, no. 2 (Apr. 15, 1988) [two copies].
Vol. 3, no. 1 (Apr. 18, 1988) [two copies], 3-8, 10-12 (Sep. 2, 1988) [two copies].
May 30, 1975; Vol. 1, no. 4 (July 10, 1975), 7, 9-14 (Nov. 27, 1975).
Vol. 1, 15 (Dec. 11, 1975), 16 (Dec. 25, 1975) [last issue with a volume number]; no. 17-20, 22-24; no. 15 (Apr. 29, 1976); no. 28 (June 10, 1976), no. 29-37, 41, 43, 45 (Feb. 3, 1977).
No. 48 (Mar. 17, 1977), 50-55, 56 (Jul. 8, 1977).
Vol. 1, no. 3 (Apr. 1974); May 1974 special visitor's guide to San Francisco; vol. 1, no. 10 (Nov. 1974); vol. 2, no. 3 (Mar. 1975), 4-5 (May, 1975).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (May 1979), 3-4, 7, 9-12 (Mar. 1980); vol. 3, no. 1 (Apr. 1980), no. 3issue 27, no. 630 (Sep. 1980).
No. 435 (Nov. 18, 1992).
March on Washington Special Issue (April 25, 1993) [two copies].
Vol. 2, no. 10 (Oct. 1978), 12 (Dec. 1978).
Vol. 5, no. 6 (Mar. 1981), 7 (Apr. 1981); vol. 9, no. 5 (Jun. 1981); vol. 10, no. 5 (Jul. 1981); vol. 6, no. 2 (Nov. 1981), 7 (Dec. 1981), 4-7 (May 1982); vol. 9, no. 6 (Apr. 1984); vol. 8, no. 7 (May 1984), 8 [two copies], 9-12 (Oct. 1984); vol. 9, no. 1 (Nov. 1984), 2-3 (Jan. 1985).
Vol. 9, no. 4 (Feb. 1985), 5, 7-8 [two copies], 9-12 (Oct. 1985); vol. 10, no. 1 (Nov. 1985), 2 [two copies], 3 [two copies], 4, 8 (June 1986); vol. 11 no. 4 (Feb. 1987), 5-6 [two copies], 7 [two copies], 8 [two copies], 9-12 (Oct. 1987); vol. 12, no. 1 (Nov. 1987), 2 [two copies], 3-7 [two copies], 8 (June 1988); vol. 2, no. 10 (Aug. 1988); vol. 13, no. 14 (Nov. 1989); vol. 14, no. 5 (Feb. 1990); vol. 17, no. 11 (Sept. 1992), 12 (Oct. 1992), vol. 17, no. 8 (June 1993); vol 18, no. 7 (May 1994).
Vol. 3, no. 4 (Dec. 1985); vol. 4, no. 10 (Jun. 1987).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Sep. 1, 1982), 2-3 (Sep. 29, 1982); vol. 3, no. 8 (Apr. 14, 1984), 10-11 [two copies], 12-14 [two copies], 15 [two copies] (Jul. 25, 1984); vol. 4, no. 5 (Mar 13, 1985), issue 12, 17, 23 (Dec. 3, 1986); vol. 6, issue 1 (Jan. 14, 1987), 2-3, 6-12, 23 (Dec. 3, 1986); vol. 7, issue 1 (Jan. 13, 1988), 3 (Feb. 10, 1988).
Vol. 5, no. 3 (Jan. 1987).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (April 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 5 (Jun. 25, 1976); vol. 7, no. 5 (May 28, 1982); vol. 11, no. 20 (Jan. 16, 1987), 22, 25-26 (Apr. 10, 1987); vol. 12, no. 1 (Apr. 24, 1987), 2-6, 8-21, 23-25 (Apr. 8, 1988); vol. 13, no. 1 (Apr. 22, 1988), 2 (May 6, 1988).
Vol. 13, no. 3 (May 20, 1988), 4-5, 8-11 (Sep. 9, 1988).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Oct. 23, 1981), 4 (Dec. 4, 1981).
No. 10 (Jul. 1991), 14 (Jun. 1992).
No. 15 (Aug. 24, 1993), 44 (Oct. 4, 1994), 45, 47, 49-50 (Dec. 27, 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jun. 4, 1987), 2-20, [includes schedule to 23^rd Chicago International Film Festival], 21-23 [two copies], 24, 26 (Nov. 26, 1987).
Vol. 1, no. 26 (Nov. 26, 1987), 27-28 [two copies], 30-31, 33-37 [two copies], 38 [two copies] (May 1988), vol. 2, no. 1 (Jun. 1988).
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Jun. 1988), 3-4, 10-11 (Apr. 1989); vol. 3, no. 3 (Aug. 1989), 6-7 (Dec. 1989); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jun. 1990), 2-3 (Aug. 1990); vol. 6, no. 12 (May 1993); vol. 7, no. 2 (Sep. 1993), 11-12, (May 1994).
Vol. 1, no.1 (Aug 17, 1973), 2-7, 9-13 (Feb. 1, 1974); vol. 2, no. 1 (Feb. 15, 1974), 2-11, 13 (Aug. 2, 1974); vol. 3, no. 1 (Aug. 16, 1974), 2, 4-5, 9-10 (Jan. 17, 1975), no. 11, issue 38; Feb. 14, 1975; Feb. 28, 1975; vol. 4, no. 1 (Mar. 14, 1975), 2 (Mar. 28, 1975); Apr. 11, 1975; vol. 4, no. 6, 7, 10 (Aug. 1, 1975).
Vol. 14, no. 10 (Aug 15, 1975); no. 10, issue 53; vol. 5, no. 1, issues 54-57 (Nov. 7, 1975); Nov. 21, 1975; Dec. 5, 1975; no. 7, issue 60; no. 8, issue 61 (Jan. 16, 1976); no. 9, issue 62 (Jan. 30, 1976); vol. 6, no. 11, issues 64-66; no. 3, issue 68 (Apr. 23, 1976); no. 4, issue 69 (May 7-20, 1976); no. 5, issue 70; no. 6, issue 71; no. 7, issue 72; no. 8, issue 73 (Jul. 2-15, 1976).
Vol. 7, no. 9, issue 74 (Jul. 16-29, 1976); no. 11, issue 76; vol. 8, no. 1, issues 78-80 (Oct. 8-21, 1976); no. 4, issues 81-84; no. 9, issue 86 (Dec. 28, 1976- Jan. 20, 1977); issue 88 (Feb 4-17, 1977); issue 90; issues 92-93; issues 95-98 (Jul. 1-14, 1977).
Issue 99 (Jul. 15-Aug. 5, 1977); issues 1c00-103; issues 105-108 (Dec. 20, 1977-Jan. 3, 1978).
Vol. 30 (Apr.May 1984); vol. 31, no. 3 (Jun.Jul. 1984); 4-5 (Oct.Nov. 1984); vol. 32, no. 1 (Jun.Jul. 1985); vol. 36, no. 6 (Aug. 1989); vol. 41, no. 3 (Apr. 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 5 (Jun. 1981), 6 (Jul. 1981).
Vol. 7, no. 4 (Fall 1992).
Feb. 1985, Apr. 1985, Jun. 1985 [two copies], Jul. 1985, Jan. 1986.
Fall 1989.
Vol. 7, no. 16 (Feb. 25-Mar. 3, 1983), 17 (Mar. 4-10, 1983); vol. 8, no. 19 (Mar. 22, 1984), 20, 23, 26-31 [two copies], 32-33 (Jun. 28, 1984).
Vol. 8, no. 33 (Jun. 28, 1984), 34-35 (Jul. 12, 1984), 35 (Jul. 19, 1984), 37-44, 46-48, 49 [two copies], 51-52 (Nov. 8, 1984); vol. 9, no. 1 (Nov. 15, 1981), 2-12, 14-15 (Feb. 21, 1985).
Vol. 9, no. 16 (Feb. 28, 1985), 17-19, 21-37, 40, 41-45 (Sep. 19, 1985).
Vol. 9, no. 46 (Sep. 20-26, 1985), 47-52 (Nov. 1-7, 1985); vol. 10, no. 1 (Nov. 8-14, 1985), 2-3, 6, 9, 12-14, 17 (Feb. 28 - Mar. 6, 1986), 17 (Mar. 7-13, 1986), 21-23, 25 [two copies], 26-28, 30 (May 30-Jun. 5, 1986).
Vol. 10, no. 31 (Jun. 6-12, 1986), 32-35 (Jul. 4-10, 1986); vol. 11, no. 2 (Nov. 14-20, 1986), 3-4, 7-9, 12, 14-16, 19-28 (May 15-21, 1987).
Vol. 11, no. 29 (May 22-28, 1987), 30-35, 37-38, 41-49, 50 [two copies], 51 [two copies], 52 [two copies] (Oct. 30-Nov. 5, 1987); vol. 12, no. 1 (Nov. 6-12, 1987).
Vol. 12, no. 1 (Nov. 6-12, 1987), 2 [two copies], 3-5 [two copies], 6 [two copies], 7-13, 15-16 (Feb. 19-25, 1988), 16 (Feb. 26-Mar 3 1988), 18-24 (Apr. 15-21, 1988).
Vol. 12, no. 25 (Apr. 22-28, 1988), 26 [two copies], 27 [two copies], 29-37, 39-41 [two copies], 42 [two copies], 43-44, 48 (Sep. 30-Oct. 6, 1988); vol. 13, no. 22 (Mar. 31 - Apr. 6, 1989), 23 (Apr. 7-13, 1989).
Vol. 13, no. 43 (Aug. 25-31, 1989); vol. 14, no. 1 (Nov. 3-9, 1989), 10, 11, 31, 33, 36-37, 41 (Aug. 10-16, 1990); vol. 17, no. 3 (Nov. 13-19, 1992), 7-9, 29, 35 (Jun. 25-Jul. 1, 1993); vol. 18, no. 27 (Apr. 29-May 5, 1994), 28, 34 (Jun. 17-23, 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 5 (Dec. 1993-Jan. 1984).
No. 283 (Jun. 25, 1993).
No. 34 (Jan. 1980), 41, 43-44, 46-48, 52-57, 59, 72, 83-85 [two copies], 86, 87 (Dec. 1985).
No. 87 (Jun. 1984), 88-89 [two copies], 90-91 [two copies], 92 [two copies], 93 [two copies], 94 [two copies], 95 [two copies], 96 [two copies], 97, 99-1c00, 103-104 [incomplete issue], 105 (Dec. 1985).
No. 106 (Jan. 1986), 110-112, 117-119, 121 [two copies], 123, 125-127 [two copies], 128 [two copies], 129 [two copies], 130-133, 134 [two copies], 135-136 [two copies] (Jul. 1988).
No. 137 (Aug. 1988) [two copies], 137 [sic, 138, two copies], 139, 145, 149, 152-154, 159-161, 189, 194, 196, 205-206 (May 1994).
Vol. 4, no. 12, issue 145 (Apr. 7, 1989).
No. 9 (Apr. 1988).
Vol. 2, no. 6 (Jun. 1987), 11-12 [two copies]; Apr. 1989, Aug. 1989, Jan. 1990; vol. 8, no. 5 (May 1993), 6 (Jun. 1993); vol. 9, no. 4 (Apr. 1994), 6 (Jun. 1994).
(Sep. 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Summer 1993).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (May 1981), 2-5 (Oct. 1981).
No. 5 (May 1988), 8 (Aug. 1988), 4 (Apr. 1989), 11 (Nov. 1989); May 1990, Jun.Jul. 1990, Apr. 1994, Jul. 1994.
Vol. 1, no. 9 (Apr. 1987), 11 (Jun. 1987); vol. 2, no. 3 (Oct. 1987), 10 (May 1988); vol. 4, no. 4 (Nov. 1989), 6 (Jan. 1990).
Vol. 1, no. 4 (Jul. 1976), 5-7, 9-12 (Dec. 1976); vol. 2, no. 1 (Jan. 1977), 2-4, 6-7, 9-10, 12, 14-15, 17 (Dec. 1977); vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan. 1978), 8, 10-11 (Oct. 1978); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jan. 1979), 2, 4, 6 (Jun. 14, 1979).
No. 1 (Jan. 1, 1988), 2-11 (Mar. 11, 1988).
No. 95 (Jun. 28, 1984), 98-1c00, 102-108, 110-112, 114, 151, 160, 162 (Oct. 17, 1985).
No. 163 (Oct. 24, 1985), 164-169, 170 [two copies], 171 (Dec. 19, 1985), 172-173, 175-182, 185-187, 189-198 (Jun. 26, 1986).
Vol. 6, no. 2 (Mar.Apr. 1993).
Vol. 2, no. 1 (Aug.Sep. 1973), 2-3 (Dec. 1973Jan. 1974); vol. 3, no. 1 (Feb.Mar. 1974), 2, 11-18, 21-26, 28, 30-39, 41-44, 45 [two copies], 46, 48, 50-55, 57-61 (Jul. 26, 1978).
No. 62 (Aug. 16-Sep. 5, 1978), 63-65, 67-70, 72, 74, 77-78 [two copies], 80, 82-86, 88-89, 114 [sic], 90-98, 1c00-105, 107-109 [two copies], 110 [two copies], 111 [two copies], 112 [two copies], 113, [two copies], 115, 117-118 [two copies], 119, 123, 124, 126-128 (Jul. 23, 1981).
Vol. 1, no. 6 (Oct. 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Apr. 24, 1978), 2-3 (May 5, 1978), 3 (May 9, 1978), 5-6 [two copies], 7-10 [two copies], 11-13 [1978].
Jun. 9, 1995.
Sep. 1975.
Vol. 2, no. 3 (Feb. 2, 1984); vol. 12, no. 1 (May 10, 1984) [two copies], 2-3 [two copies], 5 [two copies], 12, 18 (Jan. 3, 1985); vol. 13, no. 14 (Nov. 7, 1985), 15-16 (Dec. 5, 1985).
Vol. 13, no. 17 (Dec. 19, 1985); vol. 14, no. 1 (Jan. 2, 1986); vol. 15, no. 19 (May 8, 1987), 32, 43-44, 48 [two copies], 49, 51 (Dec. 18, 1988); vol. 17, no. 9 (Mar. 2, 1989), 25 (Jun. 25, 1989); vol. 18, no. 31 (Aug. 2, 1990); vol. 20, no. 45 (Nov. 5, 1992), 49-50 (Dec. 10, 1992); vol. 21, no. 4 (Jan. 28, 1993), 18, 24, 34-35 (Sep. 1, 1993); vol. 22, no. 16 (Apr. 20, 1994), 24, 41-42, 45-48 (Nov. 30, 1994).
Jun. 1982 Special Edition; Vol. 1, no. 2 (Nov. 2, 1982).
Vol. 2, no. 11 (Nov. 1989); vol. 2, no. 1 (Jan. 1990); vol. 1 [sic, 2], no. 4 (May 1990), 5-6, (Jul. 1990); vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan. 1990); vol. 6, no. 5 (May 1993), 6 (Jun. 1993); vol. 7, no. 4 (Apr. 1994), 6 (Jun. 1994).
Vol. 2, no. 2 (Apr.May 1993); vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan.Feb. 1994), 2-4 (Jun. 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 23 (Sep. 25, 1981), 24-25 (Oct. 10, 1981), 25 (Oct. 16, 1981), 30 (Nov. 13, 1981), 31-39, 31 [sic], 42-48 (Dec. 31, 1981).
Vol. 3, issue 3 (1975); issue 4, no. 53 (Sep. 1976), 60 (Jan. 7-27, 1977), 62, 65-66, 68-69, 80, 89-90, 92-97, 99 (Jan. 5, 1980), 106 (Jul. 4, 1980), 108-109, 111-114, 118 (Dec. 9, 1980).
Vol. 1, no. 29 (Dec. 1986), 56 (Jun. 11, 1987), 57 (Jan. 18, 1987).
Vol. 7, no. 1 (Jan. 4, 1980); vol. 1 [sic, 7], no. 2 (Jan. 18, 1980); vol. 7, no. 3 (Feb. 1, 1980), 5, 7, 8-10, 18 (Aug. 29, 1980); vol. 8, no. 22 (Oct. 23, 1981), 23-26 (Dec 18, 1981); vol. 9, no. 3 (Jan. 29, 1982) [two copies], 5-6, 10-11, 17 (Aug. 13, 1982); vol. 11, no. 13 (Mar. 30, 1984), 18, 20-25, 28, 29 [damaged], 39, 41-42, 44-51 (Dec. 28, 1984); vol. 12, no. 1 (Jan. 4, 1985), 2-4, 6-8 (Feb. 22, 1985); vol. 12, no. 5 (Feb. 25, 1985), 8-9 (Mar. 8, 1985).
Vol. 12, no. 9 (Mar. 15, 1985), 13-15 (Apr. 12, 1985), 15 (Apr. 19, 1985), 17-26 (Jun. 28, 1985), 26 (Jul. 5, 1985), 29-44, 47-48, (Dec. 6, 1985), 31 (Dec. 20, 1985), 51 (Dec. 27, 1985).
Vol. 13, no. 1 (Jan. 10, 1986), 3-4, 6-9 (Feb. 28, 1986), 9 [sic] (Mar. 22, 1986), 13, 16-17 (Apr. 25, 1986), 16 (May 2, 1986), 19, 21 (May 23, 1986), 21 (May 30, 1986), 23 (Jun. 20, 1986); Jun. 24, 1986 [sections 2 and 3 only]; vol 13, no. 46-47 (Nov. 28, 1986), 46 (Dec. 12, 1986), 47 (Dec. 19, 1986); vol. 14, no. 3 (Jan. 16, 1987), 4 (Jan. 23, 1987), 5-6, (Feb. 6, 1987), 6 (Feb. 13, 1987).
Vol. 14, no. 8 (Feb. 20, 1987), 10-23, 25-26, 28-35 (Sep. 4, 1987).
Vol. 14, no. 36 (Sep. 11, 1987), 37-50 (Dec. 25, 1997); vol. 15, no. 2 (Jan. 8, 1988), 3-7 (Feb. 12, 1988).
Vol. 15, no. 8 (Feb. 19, 1988), 10-24, 26-27, 30-34 (Aug. 26, 1988).
No. 5 (Jul.Aug. 1989), 7-8, 11 (Jul.Aug. 1990).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Feb 1, 1974), 2-9, 11 (Jun. 9, 1974), 11 (Jun. 20, 1974), 15-17, 19, 21-24 (Dec. 19, 1974); vol. 2, no. 1 (Jan. 3, 1975), 2-22, Oct. 30, 1975 [special edition], 23-26 (Dec. 18, 1975); vol. 3, no. 1 (Dec. 31, 1975), 2-13 (Jun. 17, 1976).
Vol. 3, no. 14 (Jul. 2, 1976), 15-26 (Dec. 16, 1976); vol. 4, no. 1 (Dec. 30, 1976), 2-27 (Dec. 30, 1977); vol. 5, no. 1 (Jan. 12, 1978), 2-9 (May 4, 1978).
Vol. 5, no. 10 (May 18, 1978) [two copies], 11-13 [two copies], 14-16 [two copies], 17-22 [two copies], Nov. 8, 1978 [extra ed.], 23-26 (Dec. 29, 1978); vol. 6, no. 1 (Jan. 12, 1979), 2-9 (May 4, 1979).
Vol. 6, no. 10 (May 18, 1979), 11-22, 24-26 (Dec. 28, 1979); vol. 7, no. 1 (Jan. 11, 1980), 2-8 (Apr. 18, 1988).
Vol. 7, no. 9 (May 2, 1980); vol. 8, no. 10 (May 16, 1980); vol. 7, no. 11-12, 14-15 (Jul. 25, 1980), 13 (Jul. 27, 1980), 16-24 (Nov. 26, 1980), 5 (Dec. 12, 1980), 26 (Dec. 23, 1980); vol. 8, no. 2 (Jan. 23, 1981) [two copies], 5, 8-9 (May 1, 1981).
Vol. 8, no. 11 (May 29, 1981), 12-19 (Sep. 18, 1981); vol. 9, no. 1 (Nov. 26, 1981) [two copies], 2-9, 11-12, 14-15, 26 (Nov. 11, 1982); vol. 10, no. 3 (Feb. 3, 1983); vol. 11, no. 3 (Feb. 4, 1984), 6-7, 9 (Apr. 26, 1984).
Vol. 12, no. 10 (Sep. 13, 1984), 19-22, 25 (Apr. 11, 1985); vol. 13, no. 1 (May 9, 1985), 4 (Jun. 20, 1985); vol. 14, no. 12 (Jun. 6, 1986), 13 (Jun. 20, 1986), 13 (Jul. 4, 1986).
Vol. 1, no. 11b (Aug. 19, 1994).
Vol. 5, no. 9 (Oct. 1994), 11 (Dec. 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Feb. 1975), 2 (Mar. 1978); vol. 2, no. 3 (Apr. 1979), 4-8, 10-12 (Dec. 1979Jan. 1980).
Vol. 2, no. 23 (Jan. 4, 1990); vol. 3, no. 8 (Jun. 7, 1990), 10, 12 (Aug. 2, 1990); vol. 6, no. 18 (Jun. 24-30, 1993); vol. 7, no. 9 (Apr. 21-27, 1994), 10 (Apr. 28May 4, 1994).
No. 1 (Jun. 26, 1991), 2-4, 6-7 (Summer 1992).
No. 38 (May 17, 1993), 88 (May 2, 1994), 96 (Jun. 27, 1994).
Vol. 5, no. 4 (Apr. 1993), 6 (Jun. 1993); vol. 15, no. 5 (Apr. 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Feb. 25, 1982), 3 (Mar. 11, 1982).
No. 41 (Nov. 14, 1986), 181, 182 (May 1, 1992).
Vol. 2, no. 24 (Jun. 18, 1994).
Vol. 8, no. 4 (Sep.Oct. 1981); Summer 1992.
No. 13 (May 11, 1984), 14-20, 22-25, 28, 31 (Jan. 25, 1985).
Vol. 1, no. 27 (Apr. 15, 1993); vol. 2, no. 28 (Apr. 20, 1994).
Vol. 6, no. 15 (Aug. 29, 1985).
Vol. 7, no. 3 (Mar. 1993), 6 (Jun. 1993); vol. 8, no. 4 (Apr. 1994).
Vol. 5, no. 3 (Nov. 1994).
Vol. 1, no. 6 (Jun. 1, 1979), 7-8, 11, 13, 15-19 (Nov. 30, 1979).
Vol. 1, no. 20 (Dec. 14, 1979), 21-23, 25-37, 40-42, 44, 49, 51, 57, 60-61, 65-70 (Nov. 13, 1981).
No. 71 (Nov. 27, 1981), 72-73, 75-76, 82-83 (May 21, 1982), 135 (May 16, 1984), 136, 1366 (Jun. 6, 1984), 137 [two copies]; Jun. 20, 1984; no. 138 (Jun. 27, 1984), 138 (Jul. 4, 1984), 140 (Jul. 25, 1984); Aug. 1, 1984 [incomplete]; no. 141 (Aug. 8, 1984); Aug. 15, 1984; Aug. 22, 1984 [incomplete]; Aug. 29, 1984; no. 143 (Sep. 25, 1984); Sep. 12, 1984; Sep. 19, 1984 [incomplete]; no. 145 (Sep. 26, 1984), 146-147, 149-155 (Dec. 5, 1984).
No. 156 (Dec. 12, 1984), 157-158, 210 [sic], 159, 161-165 [incomplete], 166-167, 170, 172-178, 182-184, 190-193; Sep. 11, 1985; no. 195 [incomplete], 196, 199-201 (Oct. 30, 1985).
No. 202 (Nov. 6, 1985), 203-206, 208-209, 211, 213-217, 221, 224-230, 232-233, 236, 256-258, 262, 264-270, 273-274 (Mar. 25, 1987).
Apr. 1987; no. 275 (Apr. 1, 1987), 276-283, 285-292, 294-3c00, 302-308, 310-311 (Dec. 9, 1987).
No. 311 (Dec. 9, 1987) [copy 2], 312-314, 316-323, 325-331, 333-341, 343 (Jul. 20, 1988).
No. 344 (Jul. 27, 1988), 345-346, 348-349, 495, 579 (Jan. 27, 1993).
Vol. 1, no. 8 [1987], 9, 11-13 [1988].
Vol. 2, no. 11 (May 16, 1979), no. 14-15, 20, 22-23 [Nov. 1979]; vol. 3, no. 1 (Dec. 7, 1979).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Jan. 4, 1980) [two copies], 2-3, 8 (Apr. 11, 1980).
No. 2 (Mar. 31, 1977), 4, 6, 9-10, 12-20 (Aug. 12, 1977).
No. 79 (Jun. 3, 1988), 80-81 (Jul. 1, 1988).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Oct. 19, 1979), 2-6 (Dec. 29, 1979); vol. 2, no. 2 (Jan. 25, 1980), 3-19 [two copies], 20, 22-23 [two copies], 24 [two copies], 25-26 (Dec. 18, 1980).
Vol. 3, no. 1 (Jan. 1, 1981) [two copies]; 2-7, 9 (Apr. 24, 1981); May 8, 1981; no. 12-13, 15-22, 24-25 (Dec. 4, 1981); vol. 4, no. 1 (Jan. 15, 1982), 2-5 (Mar. 12, 1982), 5 (Mar. 26, 1982), 7-8 (Apr. 23, 1982), 8 (May 7, 1982), 10-21 (election special, Oct. 30, 1982), 22-23 (Nov. 19, 1982).
Vol. 4, no. 24 (Dec. 3, 1982), 25 (Dec. 17, 1982); vol. 5, no. 1 (Dec. 31, 1982), [2] (Jan. 14, 1983), 3, 5 (Feb. 25, 1983) [2 copies].
Vol. 2, no. 33 (1979), 40 (Jun. 19, 1979); vol. 3, no. 2 (Sep. 18, 1979), 5, 8-27 (Mar. 12, 1980), 27 (Mar. 19, 1980), 29 (Mar. 26, 1980), 29 (Apr. 2, 1980), 32-41, 43-46, 51 (Aug. 27, 1980).
Vol. 3, no. 52 (Sep. 3, 1980); vol. 4, no. 2 (Sep. 17, 1980), 3-8, 12, 15-19, 23 (Feb. 11, 1981); vol. 5, no. 5 (Oct. 7, 1981), 7-12, 15, 17-20, 22-26, 27 (Mar. 10, 1982).
Vol. 5, no. 32 (Apr. 14, 1982) 33, 36-39, 48 (Aug. 4, 1982); vol. 6, no. 25 (Feb. 23, 1983), 26 (Mar. 2, 1983); vol. 7, no. 27 (Mar. 7, 1984), 28-29, 31, 34-36 [two copies], 37 [two copies], 38-39 [two copies], 40-41 [three copies] (Jun. 13, 1984).
Vol. 7, no. 42 (Jun. 20, 1984) [three copies], 43 [two copies], 44 [two copies], 45-47 [two copies], 48 [two copies], 49 [two copies], 50, 51 [two copies], 52 (Aug. 29, 1984); vol. 8, no. 1 (Sep. 5, 1984) 2-3, 6-9 (Oct. 31, 1984).
Vol. 8, no. 10 (Nov. 7, 1984), 11-15, 17-19, 21-27, 28 (Mar. 13, 1985).
Vol. 8, no. 29 (Mar. 20, 1985), 30, 32, 34-35, 37-44, 46-51 (Aug. 21, 1985).
Vol. 8, no. 52 (Aug. 28, 1985); vol. 9, no. 1 (Sep. 4, 1985), 2-11, 13-14, 19-21 (Jan. 22, 1986).
Vol. 9, no. 22 (Jan. 29, 1986), 23-31, 33-35, 37, 39-41 [two copies], 42 [two copies] (Jun. 10, 1987).
Vol. 10, no. 20 (Jan. 14, 1987), 22-30, 32-33 [two copies], 34 [two copies], 35-37, 39-40 [two copies], 41 (Jun. 10, 1987).
Vol. 10, no. 42 (Jun. 17, 1987) [two copies], 43-51, 52 (Sep. 2, 1987); vol. 11, no. 1 (Sep. 9, 1987), 2-4 [two copies], 5 [two copies], 6-8, 9 [two copies] (Nov. 4, 1987).
Vol. 11, no. 10 (Nov. 11, 1987) [three copies]; 11 [two copies], 13 [two copies], 14 (Dec. 2, 1987) [two copies], 14 (Dec. 9, 1987) [two copies], 15-17, 18 [two copies], 19-22, 24-25 (Feb. 24, 1988).
Vol. 11, no. 26 (Mar. 2, 1988), 27-30, 34-40, 41 (Jun. 15, 1988).
Vol. 11, no. 42 (Jun. 22, 1988), 44 [two copies], 45 [two copies], 46-48 [two copies], 49 [two copies], 50 (Aug. 17, 1988); vol. 12, no. 3 (Sep. 21, 1988), 4 (Sep. 28, 1988).
Vol. 12, no. 30 (Mar. 29, 1989), 31, 50-51 (Aug. 23, 1989); vol. 13, no. 8 (Oct. 25, 1989), 9, 11, 18-19 (Jan. 10, 1990).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (1982), 13 (May 26, 1982).
Vol. 1, no. 1 (Sep. 26, 1985), 2, 4-6 (Oct. 31, 1985), 6 (Nov. 7, 1985), 8-10, 12, 14 (Dec. 26, 1985); vol. 2, no. 40 (Jul. 2, 1987), 41-51 (Sep. 17, 1987); vol. 3, no. 2 (Oct. 1, 1987), 4-5, 7-8 (Nov. 12, 1987) [two copies].
Vol. 3, no. 9 (Nov. 19, 1987), 10-11 [two copies], 12 [two copies], 13-14, 33, 42-46 (Aug. 11, 1988); vol. 8, no. 2 (Sep. 24, 1992).
Vol. 1, no. 9 (Jul. 8, 1988); vol. 3, no. 10 (May 17, 1990), 12, 15 (Jul. 26, 1990); vol. 6, no. 8 (Apr. 15, 1993), 15 (Jul. 22, 1993); vol. 7, no. 8 (Apr. 14, 1994), 17-18, 23 (Nov. 11, 1994).
Vol. 4, no. 4 (Apr. 1982); vol. 6, no. 2 (Feb. 1984) [two copies], 5-7, 9-12 (Dec. 1984); vol. 7, no. 1, (Jan. 1985); vol. 6, no. 11 [sic] (Feb. 1985); vol. 7, no. 3-4, 8 (Aug. 1985).
Oct. 1979-Apr. 1981 [two copies], May 1981-Apr. 1983, Jul. 1983-Nov. 1983.
Vol. 4, no. 5 (Feb. 1984), 6 [two copies], 7 [two copies], 8 [two copies], 9 [three copies], 10 [two copies]; vol. 5, no. 1 (Oct. 1984), 2-5 [two copies], 6-9 [two copies], 10 (Jul. 1985).
Vol. 6, no. 11 (Aug. 1985), 12; vol. 7, no. 1 (Oct. 1985) [two copies], 2- 12; vol. 8, no. 1, (Oct. 1986), 2-8 [two copies], 9-12; vol. 9, no. 1 (Oct. 1987), 2-4 (Jan. 1988) [two copies].
May 1986, May 23, 1986, Dec. 20, 1989; No. 6 (Apr. 5, 1990), 189 (Apr. 30, 1993), 192 (Jun. 11, 1993), 209 (Feb. 4, 1994).
Nov-93
The Daniel C. Rand Journal, which covers his four years at Wesleyan University, is highly informative in nature. Just like many other young men of the time, Rand treated his journal as a ledger with no expense too trivial to record. There are limited portions where Rand writes a paragraph or two about the end of a semester, or his journey from New Hampshire to Connecticut, but generally these portions are very formal. Rand recorded purchases and expenditures by date over the first fifty pages of the journal. These fifty pages take the reader from the fall of 1839 as Rand journeyed to Wesleyan as a freshman, to the late summer of 1843 when he graduates. Included in his expenses are book lists, tuition, clothing, and little incidentals such as outings on the river or peaches from local farmers. His collection of lists paints an image of a time when a semester's tuition was less than $40, when students attended lectures on such stylish subjects as phrenology for entertainment, and when a month-long trip to New York in the summer was the height of luxury. Marginal notes about items such as his acceptance of a teaching position at a Middletown school for $17 a month in 1841 or his attempts to record step-by-step instructions to popular dances add a dose of character to the journal. Other highlights include dues paid to the mysterious Pi Omicron Psi society, which Rand always writes in Greek letters.
There are two other sections in Rand's journal. The first is his written accounts of business conducted at his family's powder mill in 1844 and 1845, and the second is the minutes, constitution, and by-laws of the Union Eloquium's Society in Meriden, New Hampshire. It appears that Rand was the secretary of this society before he left for college in 1839.
The collection contains primarily nineteenth century individual portrait photographs. A small portion of photographs is of identified individuals. When the photographer or sitter is known, the identification is noted in the listing. The images include daguerreotypes, ambrotypes, tintypes (also called ferrotypes), card images, and card images in an album. Most dates are approximate ones determined by internal evidence. Photographers are noted when known.
The album is 50 pages with two carte-de-visite to a page. Annotations identify some images and/or photographers. Pencil erasures at top of some pages, apparently names of individuals depicted in images once in the album. It is in poor condition with detached covers; repairs to front and back pages, and spine, using canvas; the lower latch is missing.
The images are organized by type, cased images precede uncased images; identified images precede unidentified images. Unidentified images are arranged by size, then in approximate chronological order.
The items arranged invidually by type and date.
Woman, head and shoulders portrait, wearing bonnet
2 1/2 x 3 inch exterior
Front case cover missing
Woman wearing bonnet, seated
Tinted, 2 x 2 ½ inch exterior
Mat in pressed brass, without case
Woman seated, wearing lace “petal” collar
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 2 1/4 x 3 inch exterior
Brass mat and decorative frame, brown decorative case with gilt detailing at edge.
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Paper pinned to inner cover: Samuel Roberson Father of Luther A. Roberson
Image has tarnishing
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Paper pinned to inner cover: Samuel Roberson Father
Image has tarnishing, front cover detached
Tinted, 2 1/2 x 3 inch exterior
Plain brass mat
2 1/2 x 3 inch exterior
Plain brass mat
Image quality poor, apparent tarnishing, hinge repaired with black tape
2 1/2 x 3 inch exterior
Mat in brass
2 1/2 x 3 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame
Front case cover missing
1/6 plate, 3 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Nonpareil brass mat, without case
Image tarnished at edges
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 2 1/2 x 3 inch exterior
Decorative, embossed nonpareil mat and frame
1/9 plate, 2 1/2 x 3 inch exterior
Nonpareil mat and decorative brass frame
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Octagonal brass mat
Cover hinge repaired with black tape
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Image has tarnishing, faded
Front cover in poor condition, with leather torn at some edges showing wood
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Octagonal brass mat
Image is faded and has tarnishing, front cover lacking
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Image has tarnishing
Cover hinge repaired with black tape
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Brass mat and frame, image faded
Front cover lacking
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Front case cover missing; notable fading on left side of image
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Decorative pressed brass mat and frame, cased
Image tarnished at edges
[Note: apparent source for tintype copy]
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Octagonal brass mat and frame
Image faded and scratched, front cover lacking
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Brass arched mat and embossed frame
Image tarnished at edges
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Front and back covers separated, black tape at hinge
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Nonpareil brass frame
Cover hinge repaired with black tape, inner front liner lacking
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Nonpareil brass frame
Cover hinge repaired with black tape
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Brass mat and frame
Cover hinge repaired with black tape, front and back covers mismatched
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Nonpareil brass mats and frames, Union case
Cover hinge repaired with black tape
Images in good condition
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Image spotted, cover hinge repaired with black tape
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Nonpareil brass mat and frame
Image has tarnishing, spots
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Nonpareil brass frame
Image has tarnishing, front cover detached
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Case presented as book, decorative mother of pearl inlay to front cover
Front cover detached, black tape at hinge
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame
Union case, front cover lacking
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Nonpareil brass mat and frame
Front cover lacking
1/6 plate, 3 1/2 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Decorative pressed paper mat
Front case cover missing
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Nonpareil decorative, embossed brass mat
Image faded, front case cover missing
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Front case cover missing
Woman with dangling earrings and brooch
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 3 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
Mat in brass, photographer’s name impressed in reverse
Case hinge repaired with black tape
Man and woman seated
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 3 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
Mat in pressed brass, without case
External brass frame and paper (on back) with photographer’s information not concurrent to image
Woman with ringlets seated
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 2 1/2 x 2 inch exterior
Mat in paper, without case. Decorative brass frame
Frame may not be concurrent to image
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 2 1/2 x 2 inch exterior
Mat in pressed brass, without case
External brass frame not original
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 3 x 2 1/4 inch exterior
Mat and framed in pressed brass
Front case cover missing
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 3 x 2 1/4 inch exterior
Decorative brass mat and frame
Front cover missing
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 2 ½ x 3 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 2 ½ x 3 inch exterior
Mat and framed in pressed brass
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Brass mat and frame
Front cover lacking
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Brass frame
Dark backing flaking, affecting image quality
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Embossed brass mat and frame
Front cover lacking
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Embossed brass mat and frame
Cover hinge repaired with black tape
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Image has tarnishing
Embossed frame and mat may not be concurrent to image, resting in case back cover
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Embossed brass mat and frame
Front cover lacking
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame
Front cover not joined to hinge
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Front case cover missing
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 1/4 x 3 inch exterior
Mat in decorative pressed brass
Scratches on backing affect image
Brass frame not concurrent to image, lacking frame
Tinted, 1/4 plate, 4 3/4 x 3 3/4 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame
Front cover detached
Tinted, 1/9 plate, 3 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame, Union case
Corrosion to left mat, right image faded
Tinted, 3 1/4 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
Decorative brass frame
Oval blue velvet case not concurrent to image
Tinted, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame, case front lacking
[Note: apparent copy of ambrotype]
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 3 1/4 inch exterior
Embossed brass decorative mat not concurrent to image, resting in case back cover
1/6 plate, 5 x 4 1/4 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame
Image backing dented
1/6 plate, 3 1/4 x 2 3/4 inch exterior
Decorative embossed brass mat and frame
Lacks case
Tinted, 1/6 plate, 3 1/4 x 2 3/4 inch exterior
Decorative embossed mat
Lacks usual frame, lacks case
Tinted, 4 1/4 x 3 1/2 inch exterior
Decorative pressed brass mat and frame
Emulsion lifting from backing, lacks case
Mrs. Charles Massoineau
Freddie S. 4 yrs old
Ida L. F. Benedict, head and shoulders portrait
Katie A. Callahan, head and shoulders portrait
Jessie M. Cone, head and shoulders portrait
Nellie A. Keeler, head and shoulders portrait
Anna M. Murray, head and shoulders portrait
Lena M. Rettman, head and shoulders portrait
Jennie B. Roberts, head and shoulders portrait
Anna C. Webster, head and shoulders portrait
Joel Hall
Signed on verso: Joel Hall, Marlboro, Conn.
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Baby, seated in high chair
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Young woman, head and shoulders portrait
Seven unidentified women
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Four unidentified men
Woman, standing, wearing hoop skirt, cape, bonnet and veil
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Man, face added to photograph of cartoon body
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Young woman, head and shoulders portrait
Eleven unidentified women
Man, seated
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Woman and man, man seated
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Woman, standing with hands crossed at chair back
Girl, head and shoulders portrait
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Two unidentified men
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Four unidentified men
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
On verso: “Given to Martinas Robert (?) by Bayard Taylor March 1, 1878 Beardsley”
Jennie Vera Stearns, Andover, Conn.
Rena and unidentified woman, head and shoulders portrait
Image marked with ink
John Clifton Chapman, age 1 year 14 days
John Clifton Chapman, age 3 mo., 1 da.
May Cook, Doinpham, Neb.
Two girls in white, one standing, one seated on chair back
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Boy, head and shoulders portrait
Boy, standing, legs crossed, leaning on chair
Man, head and shoulders portrait
(Same man as Ward, Kingston, NY, man, bedecked with IOGT [International Order of Good Templars] convention ribbons)
Girl seated, hands in lap
Girl, head and shoulders portrait
Image faded
Man with young boy seated on his knee
Boy, standing, legs crossed, leaning on fringed chair
Girl seated in fringed chair
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Baby, seated on brocade covered chair
Man, standing, one hand behind back, one on draped rest
Baby, seated, wearing hat
Woman and man, head and shoulders portrait
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Man seated in fringed chair
Woman, standing
Woman, standing
Girl and boy, girl seated and boy standing
Woman and man, woman standing with hand at open book
Woman, standing
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Two unidentified women
Boy, standing, forearm resting on draped chair
Man with IOGT [International Order of Good Templars] ribbons
(Same man as Cudding, Bolivar, NY man, head and shoulders portrait)
Three unidentified women
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
Man, head and shoulders portrait
Baby seated in wicker chair
Two girls, one standing, one seated in high chair
4 1/2 x 3 1/2 inch
Backing has decorative, gilt scalloped edging.
Baby seated, in white gown
4 1/2 x 3 1/2 inch
Backing has decorative, gilt scalloped edging
2 1/2 x 2 inch
On verso: “32 // Caro Molini – accept this photograph of one of your // great namesakes pictures with the kindest regards of // ever sincerely yours – G. M. Curtis. // Rome April 18th – 1865 // The little head in the right hand corner of the picture // is his own -- // Scuola di Atene”
Woman, head and shoulders portrait
1/6 plate, 3 3/4 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
Black paper enclosure with gold decorative print elements, cut oval mat
Man seated, wearing houndstooth-checked pants
Tinted, 4 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
Embossed paper enclosure, “arch” mat
Two young men, head and shoulders portrait
3 x 2 1/4 inch
Embossed paper enclosure with cut oval mat
Man standing, hand on chair back
4 x 2 1/4 inch exterior
Embossed paper enclosure
Plate bent at upper right corner
Man standing, hand on chair back
4 1/4 x 2 3/4 inch exterior
Decorative paper enclosure with cut oval mat
4 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
Scratches on image surface, lower corners bent
4 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
Embossed paper enclosure, “arch” mat
3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch exterior
3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch
Tinted, 3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch
Some scratches on emulsion, dents to plate
3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch
Tinted, 3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch
Plate corners clipped diagonally
3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch
Two diagonal dents
Tinted, 2 1/2 x 4 inch
2 1/2 x 3 3/4 inch
Partial fingerprint in emulsion of upper right edge
2 1/2 x 3 1/2 inch
Tinted, 3 1/2 x 2 inch
Tinted, 3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch
Some scratches on emulsion, dents to plate
Tinted, 3 x 2 inch
Some dents to plate, emulsion flaking and corrosion at edges
Tinted, 3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch
Some dents to plate, scratches to the emulsion
3 1/2 x 2 1/4 inch
Partial fingerprint in upper right corner, oval mat markings
2 3/4 x 4 inch
Backing unevenly trimmed
3 1/4 x 2 3/4 inch
Emulsion rippled at left
3 x 2 1/4 inch
Backing dented and embossed, emulsion crackled
7 x 5 inch
Emulsion scratched
Tinted, 2 1/2 x 4 inch
Decorative paper enclosure with cut arch mat
7 x 5 inch
[Women’s Christian Temperance Union of Connecticut Souvenir]
6 1/2 x 4 1/2 inch
7 x 4 1/4 inch
7 x 5 inch
[Women’s Christian Temperance Union of Connecticut Souvenir]
[Page 1] Raffael Moini Suook, circa 1860-1875 Child seated on fringed ottoman
Wm. Klauser Parterre Gallery, circa 1865-1870 Woman standing, full length portrait
[Page 2] Charles Fredericks NY, circa 1860-1865 Man, head and shoulders portrait
Brady, circa 1865-1875 Woman seated, wearing overblouse with pleated trim
[Page 3] Young woman, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1865
Fredericks, circa 1860-1865 Man standing, holding top hat, three-quarters length portrait
[Page 4] Bogardus, New York, circa 1860-1865 Lilly Spofford
Man standing, holding top hat at side, full length portrait, circa 1865-1875 Small notation at right of photograph: 20048
[Page 5] Man, head and shoulders portrait in three-quarters view, 1875-1885
Woman, head and shoulders portrait in three-quarters view, circa 1875-1885 Apparently a copy of a photographic image
[Page 6] Man standing, left hand resting on balustrade, circa 1875-1885
Woman, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1865
[Page 7] Sarony, circa 1875-1885 Woman, leaning forward on carved support covered with a textile
Man, head and shoulders portrait, near profile, circa 1860-1870
[Page 8] Woman standing, full length portrait, circa 1870-1885
Man, head and shoulders portrait, near profile, circa 1860-1870
[Page 9] Disderi, circa 1865-1873 Napoleon III
Young woman, portrait in three-quarters view, tinted hair ornament and earring Raised oval mount, circa 1870-1880
[Page 10] Boy standing, leaning on chair arm, circa 1860-1875
Woman seated, right hand resting on left forearm Tintype, circa 1870-1880
[Page 11] Woman wearing necklace with crucifix, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1870-1880
Man with textile draped around shoulders, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1870
[Page 12] Brady, circa 1880-1890 Girl standing at table, table covered with textile, frame and book on table
Girl with ringlets seated, with feet on cane seat Tinted tintype, circa 1870-1880
[Page 13] Brady, circa 1870-1880 Man standing, holding top hat
Woman, seated, three-quarters view, circa 1865-1875
[Page 14] Man with moustache, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1870
Woman, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1870
[Page 15] Disderi, circa 1865-1878 King Victor Emmanuel I
Man, full length portrait, circa 1870-1880
[Page 16] Disderi, circa 1860-1870 Clotildi
Child standing with hands on chair seat, circa 1860-1870
[Page 17] Disderi, circa 1858-1862 Prince Imperial
Woman standing, right hand on chairback, full length portrait in three quarters view circa 1865-1875
[Page 18] Child standing on chair seat with hand on covered table, circa 1860-1870 Tinted
Woman, ribbon tied at neck, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1865
[Page 19] Brady Woman standing, hands together and lifted, circa 1865-1875
Brady J.G. Bennett, circa 1865-1875
[Page 20] Two young women, one seated on balustrade, the other standing, both wearing dress of the same cut and trim, circa 1860-1865
Woman, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1865
[Page 21] Man standing, holding top hat at hip, right forearm resting on covered support circa 1860-1870
Man seated at writing table, leaning on elbow with right hand against side of face circa 1870-1880
[Page 22] Woman, head and shoulders portrait, near profile, circa 1860-1865
Man with muttonchops, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1865
[Page 23] Man, white cravat, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1870-1890
Woman seated, wearing light cape and dark bonnet, circa 1870-1890
[Page 24] Young woman seated, long hair loose, circa 1870-1880
Man with beard, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1870
[Page 25] Brady, circa 1860-1870 Woman standing, left elbow resting on mantelpiece with finger at her chin
Brady, circa 1870-1880 Man standing with left hand resting on chair back
[Page 26] Man with beard, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1865
Woman, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1865
[Page 27] Man with beard, handkerchief in jacket pocket, head and shoulders portrait circa 1860-1870
Woman seated, left arm resting on book on covered table, circa 1865-1875
[Page 28] Girl seated on chair, tinted Raised oval mount, circa 1870-1880
Boy seated on covered table Raised oval mount, circa 1870-1880
[Page 29] Street scene with two Asian men and Caucasian man seated in litter, circa 1865-1875
Man with beard, head and shoulders portrait in three quarters view, circa 1860-1865
[Page 30] Man, head and shoulders portrait in three quarters view, circa 1875-1885
Sarony Woman seated, arms crossed on top of chair back, circa 1865-1875
[Page 31] Woman with elaborate hairdo, head and shoulders portrait in near profile circa 1860-1870
Man standing, holding cane and right hand tucked in vest, full length portrait circa 1870-1880
[Page 32] Man, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1870-1880
Woman with pin at collar, head and neck portrait, circa 1860-1870
[Page 33] Woman wearing velvet ribbon necklace with pendant, seated Raised oval mount, circa 1870-1880
Woman wearing earrings and pin, head and shoulders portrait, circa 1860-1870
[Page 34] Man standing, wearing military uniform, full length portrait, circa 1860-1870
Woman with ruffled collars, head and shoulders portrait Apparently a copy of a photographic image, circa 1870-1880
[Page 35] Man seated, with left forearm on fringed armrest, circa 1890-1900
Woman, with hair ornament, earrings and necklace, head and shoulders portrait circa 1860-1865
[Page 36] Boy standing, leaning against podium, holding a cane, derby on podium, circa 1860-1870
Woman, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1860-1870
[Page 37] Man, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view Raised oval mount, circa 1870-1880
Woman, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view Raised oval mount, circa 1870-1880
[Page 38] Man, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1860-1865
Girl, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view Tinted, circa 1860-1865
[Page 39] Child seated on curtain-covered chair Tinted, circa 1870-1880
Woman, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view Tinted, circa 1860-1865
[Page 40] Durone & Murer Milan Garibaldi, 1861
Mayer & Fierson Man seated in fringed chair, left forearm resting on covered table, circa 1860-1870
[Page 41] Woman, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view Apparently a copy of a photographic image, circa 1870-1880
Bogardi [?] S.F.B. Morse, seated, three quarters view, circa 1860-1870
[Page 42] Priviligeo d’Invenzione Man standing with left forearm on chair back, circa 1870-1880
Woman seated with elbow on table and hand at her face, circa 1870-1880
[Page 43] Priviligeo d’Invenzione Girl, three quarters view, circa 1870-1880
Priviligeo d’Invenzione Boy standing, wearing large jacket and watch chain at vest, circa 1870-1880
[Page 44] Man, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1860-1870
Man with beard, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1860-1870
[Page 45] Broadhurst, Phila. Man in military uniform, cap in right hand, sabre at waist, full length, circa 1860-1865
Two women, both in bonnets, one seated, one standing, circa 1860-1865
[Page 46] Man, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1860-1865
Woman, ruffles and bow at neck, wearing a locket, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1870-1880
[Page 47] Man and woman, man standing, woman seated, circa 1860-1865
Disderi st Cie Phot. [illeg]istori. Woman holding child, another child leaning into her, carried child’s head under woman’s shawl, circa 1860-1865
[Page 48] Boy wearing derby hat, leaning against balustrade, full length portrait, circa 1860-1865
Rockwood Photographer, 829 Broadway, NY Dr. Pierce, circa 1860-1865
[Page 49] Woman wearing earrings, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1860-1865
Woman wearing hair ornament and pins at collars, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1860-1865
[Page 50] Young man standing, holding hat, circa 1870-1880
Woman in hat, head and shoulders portrait, three quarters view, circa 1860-1865
The William North Rice Papers contain diaries, correspondence, account books, teaching materials, writings, lectures, and sermons related to Rice's interests in Wesleyan University, science, religion, and education in general. The Diaries and Correspondence series includes personal diaries and account books kept by William North Rice during his time as a Wesleyan University student, and correspondence from family members, friends, colleagues, and fellow alumni from throughout his life. The subject of many of the diary entries and letters is Wesleyan University, and these writings contain information about academics, social life, campus groups, co-education, trustee maters, campus politics, selection of presidents, alumni affairs, coeducation, student discipline, and faculty recruitment.
The Teaching and Education series includes record books, lecture notes, examination questions, and tributes and memorials. The record books record student grades for the courses taught by Rice. His lecture notes cover subjects including botany, geology, mineralogy and crystallography, zoology and science and religion. The examination questions include those used by Rice in his own teaching, as well as entrance examination questions for Wesleyan University and other New England colleges and universities. The tributes and memorials to Rice, as well as obituaries, offer information about Rice's teaching and scholarly career. Also included in this series is a hand-drawn sketch of Rice made by Mrs. Calvin Sears Harrington.
The Publications, Addresses, and Sermons series contains materials created by Rice on the topics of Wesleyan University, education, geology and science, and religion. An index of sermons and publications can be found at the beginning of the series.
The Diaries and Correspondence series includes personal diaries and account books kept by William North Rice during his time as a Wesleyan University student, and correspondence from family members, friends, colleagues, and fellow alumni from throughout his life.
Diaries date from Rice's years as a student at Wesleyan, and include information about academics, social life, campus groups, and other Wesleyan-related observations. Some transcripts, made by Rice's grandson, are available in this collection as well. The "Letters Home from Wesleyan" were mainly written to Rice's father, William Rice, who served on the Wesleyan Board of Trustees. Some of these letters also include paragraphs separately addressed to other family members. Other letters were specifically addressed to other family members. Other correspondence addresses the issue of coeducation at Wesleyan during its first phase of admitting female students. There is also congratulatory correspondence regarding Rice's 50th anniversary of graduation from Wesleyan and his 80th birthday. Rice also corresponded frequently with his son about Wesleyan topics.
The final part of this series consists of letters arranged by the last name of the correspondent. Most of these writers were Wesleyan alumni, and most only wrote one or two letters. Topics include opinions on trustee matters, campus politics, selection of presidents, alumni affairs, coeducation, student discipline, and faculty recruitment.
1882 letter contains news and anecdotes about members of the Wesleyan community in 1882, male and female, old and young.
This file was transferred from Special Collections & Archives Vertical Files in 2006.
This folder of letters was separated from the rest of the William North Rice collection until 2006. Researchers using the collection prior to 2006 would not have seen these letters.
These letters contain important information and opinions on trustee matters, campus politics, selection of presidents, alumni affairs, coeducation, student discipline, and faculty recruitment. Most of the correspondents were Wesleyan alumni, and almost all wrote fewer than ten letters. Most wrote only one or two. The correspondents who wrote ten or more letters are: W. O. Atwater, J. Beech, J. Cunnings, L. Magee, J. Mudge, F. M. North, S. H. Olin, H. L. Osborn, and B. P. Raymond.
The Teaching and Education series includes record books, lecture notes, examination questions, and tributes and memorials. The record books document student grades for the courses taught by Rice. His lecture notes cover subjects including botany, geology, mineralogy and crystallography, zoology, and science and religion. The examination questions include those used by Rice in his own teaching, as well as entrance examination questions for Wesleyan University and other New England colleges and universities. The tributes and memorials to Rice, as well as obituaries, offer information about Rice's teaching and scholarly career. Also included in this series is a hand-drawn sketch of Rice made by Mrs. Calvin Sears Harrington.
These 7 folders contain 32 class record books.
This folder contains 4 class record books.
These are entrance examinations for various New England Colleges: Harvard, Tufts, Amherst, Williams, Dartmouth, Boston University, University of the State of New York, Cornell, and Wesleyan; there are also various examinations for special prizes (Phi Beta Kappa, etc.).
This file was transferred from Special Collections & Archives Vertical Files in 2006.
This file was transferred from Special Collections & Archives Vertical Files in 2006.
The Publications, Addresses, and Sermons series contains materials created by Rice. An index of sermons and publications can be found at the beginning of the series. Following the index, Rice's writings are divided into the following topics: Wesleyan University, Education, Geology and Science, and Religion. The religion section includes sermons as well as other writings on the topic of religion. Within each topic, writings are arranged chronologically.
This file was transferred from Special Collections & Archives Vertical Files in 2006.
Includes articles on temperance, politics, and obituaries
The collection consists of three volumes of minutes of Rosa Club meetings. In addition to minutes, the volumes also include rosters, election information, budgetary information, and other administrative documents.
These items were tucked inside volume 1.
2 copies from October 15, 1935, and 2 copies undated.
To Professor Caddy from K.S Van Dyke.
Elected officers: president, F.E. Lord class of 1924; vice president, N. W. Storer, class of 1923; secretary treasurer, Charles Mingins, class of 1925; faculty member of the executive committee, Professor W. G. Cady.
Elected officers: president, Charles Mingins; vice president, Thorndike; secretary/treasurer, Bradway.
Elected officer: president, Thorndike.
Elected officers: president, R. S. Durham; vice president, J. J. Williams; secretary/treasurer, T. H. Briggs.
Includes roster pasted in.
Elected officers: president, George Langreth; vice president, Edwin Schneider; secretary/treasurer, Burton Doolittle
Elected officers: president, Schneider; vice president, Doolittle; secretary/treasurer, Page R. Heldreth
Elected officers: president, Dwight North; vice president, Lonacre; secretary/treasurer, Paul D. Zotter
Elected officers: president, J. R. Hagen; vice president, A. F. Newark; secretary treasurer, W. L. May.
Elected officers: president, J. M. McNabb; vice president, W. L. May; secretary/treasurer, F. L. Quimby, Jr.
Includes roster pasted into the volume.
Elected officers: president, Kent; vice president, Lessmann; secretary/treasurer, R. N. Davis, Jr.
Elected officers: president, Scott; vice president, Cooney; secretary/treasurer, Müller.
Elected officers: president, A. H. Taylor; vice president, J. F. Müller; secretary/treasurer, H. K. Burr.
Elected officers: president, J. F. Müller; vice president, Dick Brown; secretary/treasurer, Duane F. Carlisle.
Elected officers: president, Thomas; vice president, Brown; secretary/treasurer, B. D. Wright.
Elected officers: president, Stilwell; secretary/treasurer, D. E. Wheeler.
Elected officers: president, Maynard Waltz; vice president, F. Shore; secretary/treasurer, George W. Morton.
F. Shore elected chairman pro tem.
Elected officers: president, F. Shore; vice president, B. Dwight; secretary/treasurer, B. Fitzgerald.
Elected officers: president, Dan Little; vice president, John Antonette; secretary/treasurer, M. Van Wyck.
Elected officers: president, Bob Vernon; vice president, John Handloser; secretary/treasurer, Charles B. Officer.
1948-1949 members and dues.
Elected officer: president, Dick Preston.
Budget information.
Elected officers: president, Bob Stearns; vice president, Gary Gordon; secretary/treasurer, Howard Johnson.
Elected officers: president, John Olson; vice president, Bob Willett; secretary/treasurer, George S. Stanford.
Elected officers: president, John C. Smith; vice president, Charles Deeley; secretary/treasurer, Robert Kelman.
This collection contains a first hand account of a Civil War soldier and prisoner. The manuscript narrative gives details of Alfred S. Roe's experience in the Army and in prison, his travels, fellow soldiers, officers, and their conversations. Included in box 2 are Alfred Roe's letters to his parents, brothers, sister, aunt and uncle, and dear friend. There is also correspondence to Alfred Roe's parents from fellow soldier H. Hill Wheeler when Alfred went missing and again when he (Wheeler) learns Alfred is a prisoner.
See transcript in Box 1, Folder 3.
See transcript in Box 2, Folder 11.
See transcript in Box 2, Folder 12.
See transcript in Box 2, Folder 11.
See transcript of June 9 letter in Box 2, Folder 11.
The collection consists of ten pieces of correspondence related to the Wesleyan English Department or other professional business.
The Marjorie Rice Daltry Rosenbaum Papers contain both work and personal papers relating to her educational programs and life. The majority of the papers in the collection relate to C.A.U.S.E. and its corresponding programs, but there are documents that relate to other programs that she was involved with during her life. The work papers in the collection are made up of photos, newspaper articles and general press, meeting minutes, proposals, evaluations, and correspondence with principals or directors of certain schools and programs. The personal papers include personal correspondence, drawings, resumes and vitaes, and papers corresponding to specific individuals. The correspondence for the programs generally concerns how the program is fairing or requesting certain aid or resources. The personal correspondence ranges from the familial to more business oriented topics.
The collection is arraged in 5 series. Each folder either corresponds to a specific program, year range, individual, or type of paper (for the personal papers). For those programs that are contained in multiple folders--including C.A.U.S.E., M.E.S.S., and High School Humanities--the folders are arranged so as to relate to a specific topic within the program. The folders are either arranged alphabetically by last name or program title or chronologically as in the series of newspaper articles and press.
Includes meeting minutes and memos, correspondence, joint proposals, press, and grants.
Includes brochures, press, publications, and memos about specific programs.
Includes papers relating to specific individuals. Documents include essays, memos, and correspondence.
Includes personal papers of Marjorie Daltry Rosenbaum. Documents include drawings, correspondence, essays, and biographical information.
Includes newspaper articles and general press clippings relating to C.A.U.S.E. and its programs or related individuals.
Includes both original photos and photocopies of individuals, programs, performances, and art photos. Some photos found in two oversized boxes (6 & 7).
This collection is organized into ten folders. The first folder has various types of documents pertaining to the overall project and the planning process involved. The second folder deals specifically with the issue of space allocation, and how the Building Committee had to work with the various science departments to plan out exactly how much space would be needed and how it could be distributed. The third folder contains documents and correspondence about the difficult issue of air conditioning in the Science Center. Folders 4 and 5 are both meeting minutes from the Smith Haines Lundberg and Waehler architecture firm. The sixth folder is similar, but from the E & F Construction Company. Folder 7 is the research and planning behind the Science Library. There was much discussion and research into what would be the final product. Folder 8 contains the documents reflecting the actual construction and furnishing of the library, installing bookstacks, and finding a good spatial layout. There was much correspondence sent between people involved in the process of creating the Science Library, most prominently university librarian Wyman Parker, and these are contained in folder 9. Finally, folder 10 contains documents, memos, and notes that did not fit with any of the categories above, or could not be deciphered.
The materials are arranged into the following groupings: Design and Planning; Space Allocation; Air Conditioning; Smith Haines Lundberg & Waehler Meeting Minutes; The E&F Construction Company Meeting Minutes; Science Library Research and Planning; Science Library Construction; Science Library Correspondence; and Miscellaneous Documents.
This Folder contains documents dated between 1963 and 1970 that reflect the planning process behind the construction of the Science Center. It includes various architectural drawings, charts and occupancy plans, as well as correspondence and progress reports.
Includes attached list of classrooms, utilization chart, and architect's design studies.
Attached drawings with improvements made.
Hand-drawn proposed layouts attached.
Attached six-page occupancy plan for the chemistry and biology departments.
Attached six pages of Proposal #1 and Proposal #2 for renovation of Hall laboratory.
Attached drawing of Proposal #3 by John Sease to renovate the Hall Laboratory.
Attached amateur drawing of possible Science Center layout and design.
Attached copy of Architect's minutes of meeting.
Attached memo slip dated 1/30/1967
Attached memo from Rosenbaum.
This file contains a number of documents, primarily tables of space estimate needs for the various science departments, between 1963 and 1967.
3 page document issued as a correction to a previous document of November 6, 1963 that is not in the collection.
Comprehensive 13 page document with space allocation estimates for each science department meant to use the science center.
3 page document with comprehensive estimates for all departments in the science center and science library.
3 page document issued by Smith Haines Lundberg & Waehler. Space estimates for different categories of use.
Comprehensive estimates for certain departments: office space, astronomy, geology, computer center, class rooms, and service areas.
Two-page document with 8 different tables of spaces estimates based on floor.
Architectural drawing with total cumulative space estimates for Science Center.
Issued by John Sease, two-page document with corrections for architectural drawing.
Summary of needs for each department.
Attached memo from John Sease to Wyman Parker proposing enclosed estimates to be final.
This folder contains miscellaneous documents concerning the installation of an air conditioning system in the Science Center.
Attached letter from John Sease.
Attached response from Wyman Parker, October 19, 1970
This folder contains the meeting minutes from the architects that designed the science center.
This folder contains the meeting minutes from the construction company hired by Wesleyan to build the Science Center.
This folder contains a mix of documents reflecting the planning and design process of the Science Library. It contains many documents with information about other libraries.
Attached copy of library seating survey.
Attached 7 completed forms for the Library Seating Survey.
In this first annual summary report to the Friends of the Niels Bohr Library of the History of Physics, the background and growth of the library during the past year is briefly reviewed and some plans for the future are indicated.
Three attached letters concerning it between Wyman Parker, John Sease, and Mr. Harry Lewis from the Institute of Paper Technology dated November 24 and December 10, 1964.
Given to Science Building Committee Representatives to catalog their preferences for two different design plans for the library. There is one original copy and three that have been filled out.
Attached architectural layouts.
This folder contains documents of the Science Library's construction and completion. It contains many documents from Miller & Associates, the company hired to design the interior.
Attached document of his personal assessment of library needs for graduate programs.
Attached 3 page scheduling chart for furnishing of science center.
Attached ten-page document with specifications.
Attached Ridder's List Bookstacks.
The form is mostly filled out.
This folder contains correspondence between those involved in the process of creating the Science Library.
Attached September 6 letter about periodical displays in the library.
Requests that he look over and make comments upon the architects' final plans for the library.
Requests that he look over and make comments upon the architects' final plans for the library.
Only mention in collection of the decision to tear down the Hall Laboratory.
No names. Tentative schedule for moving into science center.
This folder contains mostly handwritten notes and memos, some of which are cryptic. Some are dated between 1963 and 1971, but most are not dated.
This collection contains the papers of E. E. Schattschneider, a political scientist who spent the majority of his career at Wesleyan University. This collection is organized into seven series and primarily reflects Schattschneider's research interests from the 1950s until his death in 1971. All series are arranged alphabetically by name or subject and chronologically thereunder, with the exception of Series 3, Teaching, Wesleyan Government Department, Student Papers, each section of which is arranged chronologically, and alphabetically thereunder. Schattschneider's original order and nomenclature for folder titles have been retained throughout wherever possible; renaming and further description is present where the original titles have been nonexistent or extremely misleading.
Series 1, Correspondence, includes primarily incoming correspondence concerning professional activities, teaching, speeches and publications. Other notable groups include correspondence with Schattschneider's publishers concerning several of his books, organizational correspondence relating to Schattschneider's NBC television series American Government and the Pursuit of Happiness (1957), and correspondence concerning visiting professorships at American universities. Correspondents include many elected officials from Connecticut from the 1940s-60s including Chester Bowles, John Dempsey, and Abraham Ribicoff. Other correspondents include Harold H. Burton, J. William Fulbright, Samuel P. Huntington, Estes Kefauver, Henry Cabot Lodge, Adlai Stevenson, and Arthur T. Vanderbilt. Cross-references have been noted for persons appearing in more than one location if their corporate or university affiliation changes. Correspondence notation lists the amount of incoming correspondence first, followed by outgoing correspondence (e.g. Brown, Joseph R. 3/0, 1967-68).
Series 2, Writings and Speeches, contains notes, drafts, corrected typescripts, and author proofs for several of Schattschneider's books including Party Government, A Guide to the Study of Public Affairs, The Semi-Sovereign People, and Two Hundred Million Americans in Search of a Government. This series also contains documents, including corrected typescripts, for an unpublished volume or volumes titled, at various times, The Great American Experiment and The Resolution of Conflict - An Explanation of American Government, the latter of which Schattschneider was completing at the time of his death, and typescripts of several unpublished speeches and lectures.
Included in other series are student projects from Schattschneider's seminars on performing local community surveys, subject files of background material and notes for individual books as well as general subject files, family photographs, a documentary film written and presented by Schattschneider, and a collection of books annotated by Schattschneider.
See also: United States Senate, Committee on Expenditure in the Executive Department.
Includes correspondence related to editions of Party Government, The Semi-Sovereign People, Local Political Surveys, [Political Parties or Party Politics], Two Hundred Million Americans in Search of a Government, page proofs of Local Political Surveys and Two Hundred Million . . ., and cancelled contract for Pressure Groups in Politics (1963).
Includes correspondence and documents concerning the founding of the New England Political Science Association.
Includes copy of contract for "American Government" interview series (1957).
Includes telegram from Mayor of New York to delegates of the American Political Science Association conference.
Includes correspondence concerning Politics, Pressure and the Tariff.
Includes correspondence related to Schattschneider’s work as a consultant editor in Political Science.
Includes correspondence relating to Schattschneider’s position as consulting editor and to A Guide to the Study of Public Affairs (1950-1951).
Includes correspondence regarding the publication of the American Political Science Association Statement on party government published in Social Action.
Includes typescript of Schattschneider's lecture, The U. S. Party System and National Security Policy (1961).
Includes correspondence relating to the construction of the Public Affairs Center at Wesleyan.
See also same article in Christianity and Society 17, ii, Spring 1953.
See also Oversized, Box 12
See also Oversized, Box 12.
Includes Government 8 Final Exam, June 1947 (Wesleyan) on verso of note leaf.
Includes Political Planning and Party Reconstruction, typescript, 28 p.
Possibly from course at Michigan State University; not a Wesleyan class.
Bound student papers from Government Department Seminar in Practical Politics (Gov. 57, 58, 58s, 59).
See also written drafts in Writings and Speeches series.
Includes untitled typescript, 8p.
Includes draft memos by Clarence Berdahl, interim reports, preliminary draft titled Outline for a Proposed Program for Party Responsibility, and typescripts by Schattschneider: Wartime Political Behavior, Some Suggestions for Regional Political Research, and Objectives in Research Concerning the Present Status of Political Parties in the United States.
Includes Schattschneider's draft concerning political parties, 2 p.
Includes 2 untitled corrected typescripts, 4 p. each, and "The Overwhelming Public," typescript, 1 p., in folder 4.
Includes "The Ungovernable World," typescript, 8 p.
Includes Population Explosions, typescript, 6 p.
Includes Check list of things to do when making a local political survey, typescript.
See also Box 13 for oversized photographs.
Includes inscribed portrait, For 'Schatt' with the high regards of Brien McMahon, January 1945.
Includes copy of Middletown Strike News #5, May 8, 1970.
Most notes are handwritten transcriptions of newspaper editorials with glosses by Schattschneider.
The Second Stage Theater Records include administrative information about the student group, organized by each season and year. Information may include: staff lists; seasonal production lists; correspondence; clippings; financial information; production notes; show applications and responses; posters; and other administrative files. Some seasons have separate files for each production, and some seasons have sparse documentation.
Materials are arranged chronologically, with the exception of Boxes 17 and 18, which contain unsorted material. Any large posters for productions are filed separately in oversize boxes.
1 binder.
1 binder.
Gathered into 2 folders.
This manuscript in two parts is titled Memoirs of a College Gatekeeper, Set I and More Memoirs from a College Gatekeeper, Set II. Written by Dr. H. Kenneth Shook, it includes autobiographical stories, including a passage about Robert Frost's 1953 visit to Wesleyan University while Shook was a student in the Master of Arts in Teaching program.
This collection is organized into 5 main series, representing a chronological progression of documents. Series 1 contains documents from the years 1967 to 1970, Series 2 from the year 1972, Series 3 from the year 1973, Series 4 from the year 1974, and Series 5 details the years 1976 to 1978. Each series (with the exception of Series 5) contains four subseries: Planning Correspondence, Itemized Work Estimates, Cost Estimates and Bills, and Blueprints and Floor plans (Series 5 does not contain a folder for the last subseries, Blueprints and Floor plans). The most prevalent documents in the collection are informal correspondence between small groups of Biology professors or individual professors and Ross Gortner, Director of the Science Center. Also included are correspondence with planning firms, and lab equipment providers (generally Gortner or Facilities Planner Robert Wilson represent the University in these inquiries). There are also several full blueprints which show large-scale plans for renovation which were not completed during this period.
The Mark Slobin Papers contain materials pertaining to his "American Cantorate" project, media coverage of Jewish ethnomusicology, as well as assorted personal papers. The collection consists of 14 Paige and Holliger boxes, primarily containing correspondence and letters, newspaper clippings, interview responses, personal items, U-matic tape recordings, photographs, musical scores, and both published and unpublished writings of Slobin and others. This collection consists of two accessions, 2015-09 and 2015-26, and is unprocessed.
This collection contains a three generation history in photographs of the Minor and Stetson families from 1862-1948; Willis Kimball Stanton, his father Daniel K. Stetson and his children John Minor, George Albert and Mary Mead.
Contains proofs of A Mother in History (1966), a non-fiction book based on interviews with Marguerite Oswald, the mother of Lee Harvey Oswald, and Bad Characters, a book of short stories (1964).
The collection contains clippings, correspondence, manuscript and other print materials and ephemera relating to the subject of Arthurian scholarship. Many items were removed from books in the Nathan Comfort Starr Collection of Arthuriana (now held in the Wesleyan University's Special Collections & Archives), and can be cross-referenced with the book's title and call number.
This item is shelved in its own enclosure, separately from Box 1.
Clippings, programs, and brochures that were included as examples; descriptive labels for books included in the exhibition.
3 fully-colored illustrations in envelope. Subscription form for order of collection of 6 porcelain plates bearing Arthurian illustrations.
Collectable booklet from stage performances of Camelot. [20] p. with photographs and biographies.
Contains article about performances of Miracles at Glastonbury.
Includes Oaky Doaks, set in King Arthur's time
Clarification on Excalibur
The Sheila Tobias Women's Studies Files contain a wealth of information related to feminism, gender issues, and women's studies. The earliest document is from the 1937, but the bulk of the material is from 1969-1975, and coincides with Tobias's position as associate provost at Wesleyan University. There is a smaller amount of material from 1975-1977.
The Sheila Tobias Women's Studies Collection consists of two series:
Series 1: Authors Files, which generally includes articles, journals, reprints, and other published materials arranged by author's last name.
Series 2: Subject Files, arranged topically.
Student paper on Emma Goldman.
2 folders.
Indiana Governor's Commission on Status of Women
Kennedy Commission on the Status of Women
Educational leadership: a male domain, 1973
Hierarchy, power and women in educational policy making, 1975
Dept. of Education, State of New Jersey, 1975
Donna Woman Femme, 1975
Pittsburgh Association for the Advancement of Women, 1971
The Spokeswoman, 1975
Paid Dues, 1975
Majority Report, 1975
Newsletters, newspapers, zines, pamphlets, etc.
The Samuel M. Tuthill Papers include Wesleyan orientation materials from 1935, Wesleyan publications from the late 1930s and early 1940s, some financial documents, and a photograph album that includes images of 1936 Middletown Flood, the New England Hurricane of 1938, construction of the Arrigoni Bridge between Middletown and Portland, the Wesleyan campus during winter, Wesleyan classrooms, the Sigma Nu fraternity, tobacco farming, and a commencement ceremony.
41 pages of photographs, most 3.5 x 2.5 inches with a few larger and smaller. Includes images of the 1936 Middletown Flood, the New England Hurricane of 1938, construction of the Arrigoni Bridge between Middletown and Portland, the Wesleyan campus during winter, Wesleyan classrooms, the Sigma Nu fraternity, tobacco farming, and a commencement ceremony.
3 rolls of Agfa Superpan Supreme.
Materials sent to Tuthill from Wesleyan University prior to the start of his freshman year.
Includes Faculty and Student directory, 1935-1936; Wesleyan University Bulletin (Catalog), 1939-1940; 2 copies of 1941 commencement instructions; and 1941 Wesleyan calendar.
This collection contains correspondence, business records, litigation documents, teaching notes and materials, bulletins and reports, speeches, manuscript writings, photographs, financial records, books, clippings, scrapbooks, and ephemera documenting the life and career of Arthur T. Vanderbilt, and spans 1902 to 1957. It should be noted that the materials are vast, including drafts of judicial opinions over the last ten years of Vanderbilt's life. The first series on Education contains material pertaining to his education at Newark High School, Wesleyan University, and Columbia Law School. It also contains records and correspondence relating to Vanderbilt's Delta Kappa Epsilon Alumni Activities from 1925 to 1957, and correspondence relating to his service on the Wesleyan University Board of Trustees from 1934 to 1957 and as its President from 1946 to 1947. The Law Practice series consists of materials relating to Vanderbilt's private law practice, spanning 1914 to 1947. It includes client lists and litigation files, account books and other financial records, work records, briefs, and legal diaries. The New York University School of Law series documents Vanderbilt's roles there as both professor and dean, and spans 1914 to 1947. It contains teaching notes, correspondence, articles written by Vanderbilt and related materials, NYU statistical and administrative materials, reports and memos related to the NYU Law Center Institutes, materials related to the Root-Tilden Scholarship Program, Citizenship Clearing House, and Institute of Judicial Administration, as well as materials more generally related to NYU. The Political Activities series contains campaign records, correspondence, scrapbooks and clippings, reports and election statistics, and other materials related to Vanderbilt's political career, spanning the dates 1919 to 1947. The Bar Association Activities series contains correspondence related to Vanderbilt's term as president of the American Bar Association from 1936 to 1939 as well as more general correspondence, reports, and documentation of ABA activities from 1936 to 1957. It also contains a small amount of material on Essex County and New Jersey Bar Association correspondence from the 1930s and 1940s. The Judicial Reform and Administration of Justice series contains correspondence, articles and clippings, reports, and memos documenting the Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure during the 1940s, administrative law, the New Jersey Judicial Council during the 1930s and 1940s, the National Conference of Judicial Councils from the 1930s to the 1950s, the Advisory Committee of the United States Supreme Court on Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure during the 1940s, the Committee on Military Justice for the War Department from 1946 to 1950, the National Committee on Traffic Law Enforcement from 1938 to 1951, the Hoover Commission on Reorganization of the Government, and the New Jersey Constitutional Revision Movement from 1940 to 1948. The Chief Justice of New Jersey series contains the judicial opinions, correspondence, clippings, and subject files from Vanderbilt's term, 1948 to 1957. The Folders of Engagements series contains invitations, correspondence and other related materials, spanning 1938 to 1957. The following three series: Book Reviews and Financial; Books, Articles, and Addresses; and Writings - Unfinished, contain published and unpublished writings by Vanderbilt as well as a small amount of financial papers. The final series, Miscellaneous: Photographs, Travel, and Personal Interests, contain materials documenting Vanderbilt's personal life as well as unidentified files.
The papers are organized into twelve series: Education, 1902-1957; Law Practice, 1914-1947; New York University School of Law, 1914-1947; Political Activities, 1919-1947; Bar Association Activities; Judicial Reform and the Administration of Justice; Chief Justice of New Jersey, 1948-1957; Folders of Engagements; Book Reviews and Financial; Books, Articles and Addresses; Writings - Unfinished; and Miscellaneous: Photographs, Travel, Personal Interests. The series are primarily arranged by subject.
These papers were organized by Arthur T. Vanderbilt and his secretaries during his lifetime and placed in storage immediately after his death in 1957. They remained in storage in Summit, New Jersey until moved in bulk to Wesleyan in 1971. A true lifetime of record keeping meant that their rich quality was matched by their quantity, totaling 11,000 pounds.
Numerous books and bound serials not previously among its holdings have been catalogued and placed on the shelves on the Wesleyan University Library. A selection of duplicate books written or edited by Arthur T. Vanderbilt are retained in the Collection on Legal Change.
Boxes 185, 290-291, and 315 and 354 are no longer shelved with the collection and are considered missing. Their contents are listed in the detailed description of the collection below.
Contents described below according to labels on microfilm.
No index attached.
No index attached.
The Vertical Files Collection is comprised of materials about Wesleyan University. The materials, which include clippings, memos, fliers, programs, correspondence, and photographs, form the basis of this reference collection. Within the Vertical Files, materials are organized into groups, and within these groups, the folders are arranged alphabetically.
The Viewbooks Collection contains items related to Wesleyan University from 1893 through 2006. They frequently include photographs and statistics from the time period.
2 page description of Wesleyan's curriculum, campus, Middletown, and expenses. For further information or for catalogues, apply to the President, Rev. Cyrus D. Foss, D.D., Middletown, Conn.
Includes photos with captions, but no other text. 2 copies.
Includes photos with captions, but no other text. 3 copies, two with a brown cover, one with a red cover.
Issued by the faculty for the benefit of prospective students.
By Arthur Goodrich, managing editor of The World's Work.
By Arthur Goodrich.
Cover title: Glimpses of Wesleyan.
A booklet published for the purpose of presenting to friends of Wesleyan University a few glimpses of her campus and its beautiful surroundings. Published by Robert W. Rice [class of 1908] and John J. Norton [class of 1910]. Delta Kappa Epsilon House, Middletown, Conn.
2 copies, slightly different layout and cover on each.
Arranged for the Wesleyan Alumni Council, by K. M. Goode, [class of] 1904. 2 copies.
Written by Henry Merritt Wriston as part of the campaign to raise $3,000,000 for the university's endowment. 2 copies.
3 copies.
2 copies.
Edited by the Wesleyan University Alumni Council.
Edited by the Wesleyan University Alumni Council.
Edited by the Wesleyan University Alumni Council.
Text with prints by Louis Orr.
2 copies.
Text only.
2 copies.
Written and Edited by Undergraduates (Professor Snow's Course in Advanced Composition)
Includes photographs, no text. 3 copies.
Published by the University.
A supplement to the Wesleyan University Alumnus, January 1937. 2 copies.
Also includes An Illustrated Description of Wesleyan University,
Supplement to the Wesleyan University Alumnus, Volume XXV, Number 3. 2 copies, one of which has no printing on cover.
Published by the College Store, Wesleyan University.
2 copies.
Includes note stating that Wesleyan was only able to admit one-fifth of applicants in 1946, and that circumstances have forced the school to turn away strong applicants.
2 copies.
Published by the Development Program, Wesleyan University. 2 copies. One copy includes letter from John E. Kaltenbach, Executive Director of University Development.
2 copies.
Cover photograph of two students talking outside Foss Hill dormitories. White lettering on cover.
Cover photograph of two students talking outside Foss Hill dormitories. White lettering on cover. 2 copies.
Cover photograph of two students talking outside Foss Hill dormitories. Red lettering (Wesleyan) on cover. 2 copies.
Cover photograph of two students talking outside Foss Hill dormitories. Red lettering (Wesleyan University)on cover. 2 copies.
Cover photograph of College Row. 2 copies.
Cover photograph of columns outside Olin Library. 2 copies.
Cover photograph of contemplative student. 2 copies.
Plans for Wesleyan's Development Program. 2 copies.
Regarding sale of American Education Publications to Xerox.
Cover includes photos of men talking outdoors, Olin Library, and a basketball player. 2 copies.
Discusses introduction of coeducation and graduate education. 2 copies.
Volume LXVII, Number 3. Cover is series of red 'W's.
Pamphlet.
Pamphlet.
Pamphlet.
Pamphlet.
Pamphlet.
Red cover.
Pamphlet.
Black cover.
Black cover.
2 copies.
Pamphlet.
Pamphlet.
Pamphlet.
Oversize brochure that unfolds into a poster.
Oversize brochure that unfolds into a poster.
Trifold oversize brochure. Quote on cover: place in our community of learning. Wesleyan University
Quote on cover: A Wesleyan education: critical and creative thinking that can change your life . . . and can help you change the world.
Quote on cover: 'Wesleyan is one of a handful of colleges that can stake a legitimate claim to the title tops in the nation.' -- The Fisk Guide to College, 1999.
Multiple publications within portfolio.
Unfolds into poster.
Unfolds into poster.
Multiple publications within portfolio. 2 copies.
The repeal papers of The Voluntary Committee of Lawyers, Inc. 1928-1944, were originally working files of Joseph Hodge Choate, Jr. (1876-1968) and of Harrison Tweed (1885-1969) when they were among the leaders of this single-purpose organization. The Choate materials are correspondence and publications. The Tweed records represent financial aspects of the organization, of which he was treasurer. These papers include the records of the financial transactions of the organization, all known publications and a great deal of original correspondence.
The Washington's Birthday Commemoration Programs consists primarily of the programs given out at Washington's Birthday ceremonies and banquets between 1863 and 1941. In addition, a few years include tickets to events, clippings about the event, and related memorabilia. The programs offer fine examples of design and printing styles from the period.
The Wesleyan Spirits Records include documentation of the group's activities and travels. Materials are periodically added by members of the Wesleyan Spirits.
The materials have been inventoried but not arranged.
Note: Three volumes.
Note: includes video, DVD, photographs, clippings, and other materials.
The Wesleyan Student Assembly Records include minutes, subject files, memoranda, reports, publications, flyers, and other materials related to the student government of Wesleyan University. Topics include campus speakers and visitors, facilities, offices and buildings, courses, departments, and issues involving professors and curriculum. The Administrative Files series is not processed, but a general listing of its contents is included.
Series 1. Minutes (Acc. 2000-64)
Series 2. Subject Files (Acc. 2001-41)
Series 3. Administrative Files (Acc. 2001-42, Acc. 2005-17, 2005-96)
Consists of minutes of WSA meetings.
Included are campus and outside correspondence, clippings, events posters, photographs, and memos documenting the WSA's involvement in campus issues and activities and occasional state or local legislative policymaking. File subjects include campus speakers and visitors, facilities, offices and buildings, courses, departments, and issues involving professors and curriculum. Files of extensive coverage include: divestment; Howard Bernstein; financial aid; Residential Life Task Force; sexual harassment and assault; and the Student Budget Committee. The arrangement is alphabetical by subject.
The Administrative Files are arranged by their accession numbers. Materials within each accession have not been processed, but a general listing of the contents is provided.
The contents of this accession are from circa 1979-1986.
The contents of this accession are from circa 1986-2001.
This collection contains a variety of materials generated by Wesleyan Clinic escorts between 1991 and 2006. This includes pamphlets, articles, and fact sheets about abortion, pro-choice periodicals and awareness-raising paraphernalia, as well as information specifically concerning Wesleyan Clinic Escorts, such as Escort sign-ups, training materials, attendance logs, and meeting minutes. The collection also contains a folder of anti-abortion pamphlets and articles.
The Clinic Defense Committee was an early incarnation of Clinic Escorts.
Clinic Escorts was a subsidiary of Students for Reproductive Choice.
The WESU Collection contains documents, correspondence, and notes related to the operations of the station from 1943 to 2000.
Series 1, WESU board minutes, contains the minutes of the WESU Board of Directors from April 1959-January 2000. There is also a significant amount of material from and pertaining to the 1967 incorporation of the Wesleyan Broadcast Association.
Series 2, Correspondence, Memos, and Clippings, primarily contains undated correspondence and memoranda.
Series 3, Subject Files, consists of policies, printed material, programming information, and descriptions of WESU's history.
Series 4, Financial, consists largely of receipts, invoices, bills and other miscellaneous material pertaining to the stations operating costs, as well as budget requests, bank statements and checks.
Series 5, Rock Biographical and Playlists, contains promotional material from bands and record labels, as well as several on-air playlists.
Series 6, Addition of May 2009.
There are no minutes from Fall 1993 to Spring 1994 or from Fall 1999 to Spring 2001.
Missing Spring 1979.
These addresses were made to incoming students at the beginning of the academic year throughout the 1980s.
Items are arranged chronologically.
The collection consists of two bound volumes, and an unbound photocopy of one of the volumes. The collection is housed in two half-letter size boxes.
Bound volume, Copy of Manuscripts by Moses C. White, M.D., Pioneer Missionary, Relating to the Founding of Methodist Missions in Foochow, China. Presented to the Wesleyan University Library by his Niece, Cornelia C. White, 1930. (There is also an unbound photocopy of this volume.) In addition to presenting a copy of this volume to Wesleyan, Cornelia White also gave copies to Yale University and the New Haven Colony Historical Society.
Cornelia White appears to have transcribed and copied both published and unpublished material in order to compile this volume. Although pages are not numbered in consecutive order, some of the material in the order that it appears is as follows:
1. Moses Clarke White, a biographical obituary sketch retyped from the original in the Yale Medical Journal, Dec. 1900, v.7, no.6.
2. Moses Clarke White, biographical obituary sketch retyped from original in the New York East Conference Minutes for 1901, in the General Minutes of the Spring Conferences for 1901, page 116.
3. Article by S.H. Gage which appeared in the Journal of Applied Microscopy and Laboratory Methods, vol. 4, no. 1, Jan. 1901.
4. Founding and Early History of Our Chinese Mission, 1847-1853 by Moses C. White, being an address delivered at Boston, September, 1887. Copied by C.C. White with permission of M.C.W.
5. Transcription of letters by Elijah Hedding, Rufus Anderson, J.H. Woolcott, Charles Pittman, etc.
6. Cornelia C. White writes: The following article I pasted, in 1896, in one of my Scrap-books, and from its appearance I judge it was taken from an issue of the Christian Advocate near that date (1848), probably one that my parents saved. C.C.W. (pages 1-5)
7. Early History of the China Mission of the Methodist Episcopal Church By Rev. Moses C. White, M.D. Contains typescript of a letter by Frederick Thomas Keeney, Resident Bishop, Methodist Episcopal Church, Foochow, China to Mrs. Mary E. King (grand niece of MCW), 1923 Dec 4.
8. Toward the end of the volume there is material that is described in the following words: " Copied August 21, 1898, from data given by Rev. M.C. White, and from papers published by him in 1897". Included here is a moving biographical sketch and tribute to Jane Isabel White, transcribed from American Missionary Memorial, including biographical and historical sketches. Ed. By H.W. Pierson. (N.Y.: Harper, 1853.)
The second item is described in an old inventory as a Common Place Book, dated May 24, 1845. Handwritten information on the inside cover of the volume: The Property of Moses C. White, Middletown, Ct., May 24, 1845. There is a date stamped on an inside page of the volume as October 20, 1937 which is probably when the Wesleyan Library acquired the item. The volume is a combination of diary, notes on lectures that he has attended, Bible references, and scrapbook. Some pages are interleaved with loose correspondence, notes, and plant leaves. There is a page with Chinese characters. A letter or page of Chinese is inserted into the front of the volume.
The first entry in the volume is dated Wesleyan University, Saturday evening May 24, 1845, several days after the end White's last term at Wesleyan. Several entries are dated as Wesleyan, but approximately one-third of the way through the volume is an entry titled, Fokien Examination Hall at Fuhchan followed by another titled, Sketches relating to Christianity in Java which begins On my return from China in Jan 1853 the ship in which I sailed met with an accident in the Java Sea. It appears this volume was started at Wesleyan, taken to China, and back.
The third item in the collection is the Gospel of Matthew translated into the Fuhchan colloquial dialect. It was prepared from the classical Chinese version in 1851 for the Missionary Lyceum of Wesleyan University.
In Fuhchan colloquial.
The collection consists of Wesleyan University course-related papers, notebooks, and theses, along with notes and notebooks related to his studies at Wadham College. There is a scrapbook of letters, clippings, and invitations documenting his Rhodes Scholarship. One of the items of interest is an invitation to a dance given by the Prince of Wales and Lady Astor for all the Rhodes scholars. A list of Rhodes Scholars for that year also appears in the scrapbook.
The materials in the Beatrice Witkin Papers range from her earliest musical compositions to her major works. Notes and secondary literature accompany many of the compositions, and all major works have complete scores.
The works follow a chronological order in each box.
Note: Featuring Poppy Mitrls and Oh let me sleep and so forget the spring, sonnet by Robert Nathan.
Note: Complete scores.
Note: Complete scores.
Note: Notes, music scores, scripts.
Note: Music scores.
Note: Music scores.
Note: Text, music notes, concert program.
Note: Complete scores.
Note: Complete scores and notes.
Note: Complete score.
Note: Parts.
Note: Complete scores.
Note: One score from 1967 version, one from 1976 revision.
Note: Time Machine (1971), Electronic (1971), Pendulum (no date), Beethoven Piano Sonata (no date), Oboe Trio (no date), and notes.
Note: Complete scores and concert program.
Note: Complete score, miniature score, and concert program.
Note: Four copies.
Note: Individual parts.
Note: Text, musical notes, and Buffalo Bill Ballad.
Note: Program notes.
Note: Charts.
Note: Lamentations I; Sephardic and Babylonian Lamentations III; V Ashkenazic-Portuguese-Bach notes and working charts.
Note: Individual parts for Lamentations I: I Sephardic and Babylonian.
Note: Notes, program guide, charts.
After World War I was over, the Wesleyan Alumni Council sent a form requesting military service records of students and alumni involved in the war. These forms were meant to be published as a permanent memorial to those who served. However, no evidence that this book was ever produced has been found. Wesleyan had a total of 1,169 men involved in the war effort, of whom 26 died. The majority of Wesleyan men were involved in the Army, S.A.T.C., and Navy. A few of the specific occupations were as chaplains, ambulance drivers, quartermasters, pilots, and engineers of chemical warfare.
The first page of the form requested basic biographical information of each man: name, address, marriage status, education, and occupation before entry into service. The middle section asked for the War Record: Date entered in service, location of training, promotions, location where stationed abroad, date of when they first went into action, injuries, date discharged from service, and occupation after the war. On the back of the form, sent to those who survived the war, was a questionnaire asking about their impressions on the war, what mental/physical effects they had, how their Wesleyan education benefited them, and their feelings toward universal training. The forms also requested that they send additional documents: a photo of themselves before the war and a photo of them in military uniform. Very few actually sent in photos. Among those who did was Captain Frank E. Wing, class of 1900, who made an album of the Red Cross in France from March 1918 to February 1919. There are also many letters of correspondence between Arthur B. Haley, who was in charge of creating this collection, and those who filled out the forms. The widow of Joseph H. Hefflon, class of 1894, transcribed a collection of letters from her husband and other YMCA men that were stationed with her husband. The letters tell her husband's story of immediately being torpedoed once shipped out, the way he served as a father figure and the respect that he developed with the other men, and then finally of his dying of pneumonia.
Of those who completed the questionnaire, almost all of the responses to the first question indicated a sense of patriotism, duty, and pride in enlisting to help their country. Many wrote that they regretted not signing up sooner. The most common responses to how Wesleyan benefited them were: training through R.O.T.C. and S.A.T.C., athletics, math, and languages. Philip Prescott Frost, class of 1902, wrote: Hazing is a good introduction to the military discipline. Two fraternity brothers saved my life by getting me away from my officers and from the front after I was gassed and had gone back too soon. Credit Psi U.
Many who were in favor of universal military training cite it as good for the nation so long as the U.S. did not follow the German model of militarism common at this time. More than a dozen cited the Swiss model as a positive idea. A certain percentage, despite their patriotism, had strong feelings against universal military training. One example is Theodore Foster Comstock, class of 1913. Although he said he would not have missed it for anything he did not believe in universal military training: Believe in maintaining a reasonable standing army of men fit for nothing else, but not in wasting the time of better men in training for war or in risking the development of a desire for war in the minds of men with military knowledge for which they have no immediate use.
 Items are arranged in alphabetical order by last name.
Some of these items are Wesleyan-related, but many are not.
The Women's Studies Program Collection documents some of the curricular and structural changes made in the history of the Women's Studies Program (now Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies). The materials include a 1977 paper by Sheila Tobias on the history and future of women's studies in general; a 1980 proposal for a Women's Studies Program; a list of core courses in the Women's Studies Program for the year 1981-1982; and an extensive 2002 report created by a student forum about the nature and direction of Women's Studies at Wesleyan.
Also includes bibliography of non-sexist reading materials for children, and sources for non-sexist reading materials.
In Fall 2002, a student forum (WMST 419) was offered in the Women's Studies Department. The full title of the forum was Envisioning an Inclusive Women's Studies Program: A Collective Forum to Create Change at Wesleyan. Under faculty advisor Gina Ulysse, the students enrolled in WMST 419 evaluated the Women's Studies Department and its curriculum and goals. Envisioning a More Inclusive Women's Studies Program is a spiral bound document that describes the forum's suggestions for revising the governance of the department and restructuring the Women's Studies introductory class.
The Henry M. Wriston Collection consists of biographical material, correspondence, publications, reprints, and speeches. Topics include higher education, university administration, United States politics, and foreign relations. Many of the speeches were delivered at Brown University.
Materials in the Addition of June 2008 (Acc. 2008-14) were used in creating the website http://www.henrymerrittwriston.org/. They include materials from other repositories and the Wriston family, as well as photographs and audio recordings.
Within each series, materials are arranged chronologically.
This document only includes the Wesleyan University section. It was assembled by Theodore R. Crane (Brown, class of 1950) with the assistance of Donald L. Salmon and Harold E. Van Horn.
Interview took place in Wriston's apartment, New York City. Lois E. Smith transcribed the tape recording. 2 copies.
4 folders.
2 folders.
Includes disc.
1 compact disc.
1 compact disc.
1 compact disc.
1 compact disc.
The single volume of the Young Men's Republican Club of Wesleyan University Records consists of an account of the activities of the club in the first year of its existence, 1856. It begins with an account of the first meeting of the club. On June 21, the group selected as its first chairman William J. Foss, class of 1856. The group also inaugurated its tradition of speechmaking at meetings, with Mallalieu, Upham, Elmer, Ela, Longstreet, Ginn, Johnson, Shepard, and Buddington listed as having given speeches. The first meeting also saw the selection of a committee, intended to draft a proposed constitution for the group. That committee was to consist of J.M. Pomeroy, A. Reynolds, Mallalieu, Longstreet, Ela and Pitkin. The club reconvened on June 25 and unanimously approved the report of the committee of six. The group's constitution follows.
The preamble begins, Whereas, our country is now about to enter into a Presidential campaign involving issues which we believe to be the most momentous presented to the American people since the adoption of the constitution . . .. Two such issues were, The salvation of Kansas, and the restoration of the purity of the federal government, which, can be achieved only by the election of the nominees of the Republican Party. The remainder of the constitution consists of 21 articles.
Article 1: Designates the official name of the group as the Young Men's Republican Club of Wesleyan.
Article 2: Sets up the terms of membership in the group. Members were required to sign these articles within one week of their adoption and afterward . . . [had to] be elected by a majority of the club. All members were required to testify their adhesion to the party platform of June 17, 1856.
Article 3: States the purpose of the organization, being to aid in the diffusion and advocacy of the principles of the Republican Party . . . and the election of John C. Fremont and William L. Dayton as President and Vice President of the United States.
Article 4: Enumerates methods by which the group planned to fulfill its purpose, including an organized system of addresses on the politics of the day, to be delivered before the citizens of this county and vicinity and also the purchase and distribution of the Republican (campaign materials). It also allows for the employment of such other means as from time to time the club may deem proper.
Article 5: Lays out the top officer positions in the club, including president, vice president, secretary and treasurer.
Article 6: Provides for election of officers: president and VP from senior class, secretary from junior class, and treasurer from sophomore class.
Article 7: Provides for the organization of an executive committee including the officers and four representatives (one from each class year) to be elected after the adoption of the constitution.
Article 8: Describes the general responsibilities of the committee--to carry out all orders of the club.
Article 9: Provides for the selection of a subcommittee of three to confer with the Fremont Club of Middletown and to assign the times, places, and speakers for all meetings held under the direction of the club throughout the county and vicinity, and also to plan and provide for said meetings.
Article 10: Provides for the time and place of meetings of the executive committee, to be determined by the chairman.
Article 11: Executive Committee must report its activities and expenses to the general meeting.
Article 12: Provides for the removal of members of the Executive Committee.
Article 13: Provides for filling of vacancies in the Executive Committee.
Article 14: Assigns the time and day for general meetings.
Article 15: Provides for calling of extra meetings.
Article 16: No non-members may attend meetings.
Article 17: Order of business for meetings.
Article 18: Motions to adjourn or table shall not be debatable.
Article 19: Provides for collection of money for campaign documents by voluntary subscription.
Article 20: Members may be expelled by majority vote.
Article 21: Provides for amendment of the constitution by a 2/3 majority.
The first signature on the document is that of John W. Hoyt ('58), followed by the term scripsit meaning that Hoyt recorded the document. His signature is followed by several pages of the signatures of the founding members of the club. Their names follow, along with the class years (in the 1800's) of all confirmed Wesleyan students.
James M. Pomeroy ('56), John Duncan Taber, ('58), George H. Whitney ('58), William T. Elmer ('57), Edward (or Edwaro) Johnson ('56), Allen Reynolds ('56), John Peterson ('57), Joseph W. Cushing ('57), Willard F. Mallalieu ('57), David Hough Ela ('57), Thomas R. Ercanbrack ('58), Melville Cox Smith ('59 but did not graduate), William Jay Foss ('56), John W. Hoyt ('58), Albert Vail ('57), William V. Snyder ('56), Hiram Pliny Shepard ('58), Samuel (or Salmuel) B. Paris ('58), Alverd E. Winchell ('57), Frederick Walter Pitkin ('58), Wilbur Fisk Noyes ('58 but died in 1857), Gilbert S. Keys ('58), Anthony Woodward ('58), Wesley Curtis Ginn ('59), Spencer R. Fuller ('59), Francis Asbury Smith ('59), Quincy Johnson Collin ('57), Charles H. Payne ('56), George Fisk Comfort ('57), George Crosby Smith ('56), Orville W. Powers ('56), James O. Longstreet ('57), Henry Crounce Abbott ('59), Edward W. Virgin ('57), Daniel Clark Knowles ('58), John W. Currier ('57), Edwin S. Snow ('58), Williams A. Reynolds ('58), Amherst W. Kellogg ('58), George W. Mansfield ('58), Solomon Parsons ('58), Nathaniel Fellows, Benjamin H. White ('59, but did not graduate), James N. Garatt ('58 but did not graduate), Charles H. Gardner ('59 but did not graduate), William F. Hatfield ('59), Henry A. Collin ('58), Charles S. Rogers ('58), Andrew Roe ('57), Jonathan H. Dally ('59), George L. Roberts ('59), Silas E. Quimby Jr. ('59), Joseph W. Ellis ('58), Charles H. Stocking ('58), Asa P. Lyon ('59), J. L. Morse ('59), A. Boothby Jr. ('59), George H. Falley, Horace William Parmenter ('59), J. D. Reynolds ('59, did not graduate), Newell F. Nichols ('57), Charles W. Brooks ('57), G. H. Gracy, Nelson Stutson ('58), James Carr, Jr. ('59), William Henry Starr ('59), Burwell P. Goode ('56), Henry A. Budington ('57), Lorenzo D. Blanchard ('57), G.N. Stowers, E.R. Carey, George Judkins ('60), Herbert F. Fisk ('60), William T. Worth ('60), John B. Lapham ('60), Edward M. Anthony ('60), Edward Edson ('60), William E. Morgan ('60), Robert L. Mathison ('60), Edwin B. Harvey ('59), Solomon Chapin ('57), William L. Spalding ('60), Ichabod Simmons ('60), Hiram C. Sexton ('60 but did not graduate), James M. Buckley ('60 but did not graduate), Andrew K. Crawford ('60), George C. Webber ('60), William L. Bodwell, Benjamin K. Lovatt ('60 but did not graduate), James T. Edwards ('60), Henry Blaisdell ('60), Samuel A. Winsor ('60), Daniel Kimball Stetson ('60 but did not graduate), Robert Pagan Bucknam ('59), Alvin G. White ('60 but did not graduate), William H. Wardell ('60), Benjamin S. Sharpe ('60 but did not graduate), George Clarke ('60), Webster R. Walkley ('60), George W. Clement ('60 but did not graduate), Edson W. Burr ('60), Melvin D. Kinney ('60), W. F. Comfort, Albert Gould ('60 but did not graduate), James Stuart Gordon ('60 but did not graduate), George S. Chadbourne ('58), Sanford B. Sweetser ('60).
The section of the book that follows consists of accounts of several meetings of the club.
At the first regular meeting on June 26, 1856, the executive committee and club officers were elected. H. P. Foss was elected as president, J. M. Pomeroy as vice president, E. A. Winchell as secretary and D. H. Ela as Treasurer. The remaining members of the executive committee were to be E. Johnson, W. F. Mallalieu, N. Fellows and W. C. Finn. The meeting also saw the selection of Smith, Pomeroy, and Powers to a subcommittee tasked with coordinating the efforts of the Wesleyan club with the Middletown Fremont Society.
The second set of meetings on June 27, 1856, began with a meeting of the Executive Committee which saw the adoption of a tax of a few cents, that is dues, to be paid by the members of the club. Pomeroy and Foss were tasked with contacting the Middletown Fremont Society. The executive committee also provided for a list to collect the names of club members willing to speak on behalf of Fremont and freedom. At the evening meeting of the full club, Smith, Pomeroy, and Powers reported on the meeting with the Middletown Fremont Society and their report was accepted by the club. Also, motion was carried to send for two copies of the Campaign Tribune.
The next meeting on July 5, 1856, included the acceptance of the first report of the executive committee and speechmaking. The report describes the selection and election of club officers and subcommittees that had occurred at the prior meetings, and reports on the progress of the group so far. The executive committee report also reveals that a ratification meeting was held in the city on June 25, and provides a list of the members that spoke at the event.
At the meeting on July 26, 1856, the report of the Executive Committee was heard and accepted, and speeches were made. President being absent, VP presided. The report follows the relationship between the Wesleyan Young Men's Republican Club and the Middletown Fremont Society. It notes that the subcommittee had been enabled to contact the Middletown group, and that the Middletown organization had appointed a liaison, probably of a temporary nature, to attend the Wesleyan club's meetings. The Wesleyan club had by then been assured of the hearty cooperation of the Middletown club. The report itemizes campaign materials to be bought with club funds, including, 1 copy of Upham's Life of Fremont, 1 copy of History and Principles of the Republican Party, 2 copies of Facts for the People [and] 2 copies each of the publication of the Washington Republican Association. The report reveals the concerns of the Executive Committee, noting that, great care must be taken to avoid offending anyone on the subject of the Vice Presidency, because pleas for either Dayton or Johnson could have an injurious effect on the vote for Fremont in this state. The club was instructed not to make any offensive remarks about Mr. Fillmore, and to confine their remarks as speakers to the official platform so as not to distract and divide.
The meeting of September 6, 1856 marked the beginning of a new school year. The minutes of the meeting describe the election of new members and a new Executive Committee. G. F. Comfort became chairman, and A. Eggleston, H. Shuster, G. Squire, Worth, and Anthony were elected as new members. New elections also included William J. Elmer as president, E. A. Winchell as vice president, J. R. Ercanbrack as secretary, and S. Fuller as treasurer, while the election of the remaining Executive Committee members-at-large was deferred until the following meeting. It was also resolved at this meeting to form a glee club in connexion [sic] with the Repub. Club.
September 10, 1856, the president of the Executive Committee and members of the subcommittee were selected. Were present Elmer, Winchell, Fellows, Mallalieu and Ercanbrack. Mallalieu was made president of the committee, and Fellows, Winchell, and Mallalieu were elected to the subcommittee. Provisions were also made for the posting of advertisements for speeches to be made by club members.
September 13, 1856, the third report of the Executive Committee was listened to and accepted. The following new members were elected to the club: Mssrs. Mandell, Clement, Fisk, Simmons, Spalding, Mattison, Sharp, Stowers, Bulkley, M. P. Kinney, Cary, Sweetser, Danes, W. C. Morgan, Glaats, J. Hibbard, Sewell, J. E. Pawins, Nichols and C. Lorin. Ellis, Longstreet, Comfort, and Ercanbrack were invited to sing for the club. It was also voted that the Executive Committee make arrangements for going to the Meriden mass meeting on next Saturday.
Evening of November 4, 1856, the group shouted uproariously but was brought to order by President Elmer. The glee club, Ellis, Longstreet, Gould, and Ercanbrack discoursed music from time to time according to the call of the society. Many enthusiastic speeches were made. Mallalieu was funny, Fellows was pathetic. Ercanbrack was impudent, Elmer was enthusiastic and all were in for free Kansas. The club adjourned, resolving to do their whole duty on the morrow. Signed: J.R. Ercanbrack, Secretary.
November 6, 1856. Republican club convened. Elmer presided. The club bewailed the probable result of the national election. Each and all joined to assert that they would remain firm advocates of Republican principles. Voted that these records be placed in the college library for the investigations of future classes who shall see fit to engage in politics. Club adjourned sine die. Signed: J.R. Ercanbrack, cur. Sec.
This collection includes exhibition catalogs from the CFA and Zilkha Galleries. Also included are exhibition announcement cards, postcards, and mailings.
Arrangement is chronological.
2 copies.
2 copies.

