This collection contains LP phonograph records and reel-to-reel recordings featuring Whitman College choral groups and the Walla Walla Symphony, lecture notes, subject files, photographs, and concert programs.
Whitman College hosted the Beta Zeta chapter of the national social sorority Alpha Chi Omega from 1928 to 1983. The Alpha Chi Omega collection contains memorabilia and records related to the sorority.
This collection contains interviews on cassette tapes, publications, research files, and family correspondence pertaining to Germans from Russia created by a genealogist from Walla Walla, Washington.
Materials related to brothers Donald and Cameron Sherwood, both graduates of Whitman College, and their involvement with Whitman College, Walla Walla, Washington and the Pacific Northwest.
The Caroline Ferrell Papers, which date from circa 1864, contain an essay entitled "A Woman's Experience in Crossing the Plains" written by Caroline Ferrell, a pioneer woman who settled in the Walla Walla area after crossing the continent in 1864.
The John F. Boyer Family Papers houses personal material of the Boyer family. John F. Boyer was co-founder of Baker Boyer Bank, a trustee of Whitman College and Seminary, and active in civic, religious, and educational endeavors in Walla Walla, Washington.
Records documenting the activities of a local service organization, the Kiwanis Club of Walla Walla, Washington, from 1922 to 1993
Materials related to Whitman chapter of Phrateres.
The Sidonie Louise Pyle Scrapbook contains photographs depicting campus life at Whitman College from 1918 to 1922. Sidonie Louise Pyle was a graduate of Whitman College and a member of the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority.
The Pacific University Collection contains postcards, handwritten bills, and treasurer reports. This collection, which dates from 1859 through 1979, also contains sketches of the lives of alumni, biographical information, and correspondence.
The Myrons Eells collection contains articles, books, manuscripts, and correspondence. This extensive collection, which spans from 1848 to 1998, also consists of speeches, sermons, scrapbooks and other ephemera created or collected by Myron Eells.
Materials related to Robert A. Skotheim and his service as president of Whitman College from 1975 to 1988.
The Ada Kidwell Scrapbook contains newspaper clippings from the "Walla Walla Union-Bulletin" from 1970 to 1981. Ada Kidwell worked for the city of Walla Walla in various offices for 40 years.
The John Prentice Allen Paper, which date from 1930 to 1979, contains correspondence, travel brochures and concert programs, work-related records, and documents relating to military service.
Materials related to the Whitman College chapter of an honor society for college seniors.
The William P. Winans Collection, which dates from 1915 through 1937, contains ephemera related to William P. Winans of Washington. This collection contains newspaper clippings related to the life of William and a typed history on Steven County, Washington, where Williams was born.
This collection includes a newspaper article about a woman's journey across the plains in 1851.
The William M. Nuttall Journals, which spans from 1904 through 1923, contain books and journals recording life events of an early 20th century Walla Walla native.
The Whitman College Archives vertical file collection contains files pertaining to the history of Whitman College and people associated with the college.
Hattie Gordon, born circa 1900 in St. Louis, Missouri, attended Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington from 1922 to 1926, and was involved with the academic honors society Phi Beta Kappa and social sorority Delta Gamma. This collection, which dates from 1922 to 1926, contains photographs of people, newspaper clippings, and a scrapbook page.
The Walla Walla Valley Pioneer and Historical Society Records contains memoranda, publications, and newspaper clippings. This collection, which dates from 1966 through 1998, also consist of business and financial documents relating to the Fort Walla Walla Museum.
The Cecil P. "Bud" Compau Collection, which dates from 1900 to 1983, contains photograph albums with images of the 1918 harvest, camping at Lewis Peak, scenes along the Columbia River, and other images of the Northwest. Also included in this collection is an obituary, and an article related to the life of Cecil P. "Bud" Compau.
The William Tugman Papers contain legal briefs, court documents, and financial documents. These papers, which date from 1956 through 1978, also consist of newspaper articles. William Tugman was a Walla Walla attorney.
The A. Kyger Ledger contains the financial ledger of A. Kyger. The ledger dates from 1869 to 1870.
The Whitman College Archives Northwest People Vertical Files Collection contains subject files pertaining to people from the Walla Walla Valley and the Northwest.
The Tom Rice Collection houses E.T. "Tom" Rice's photographs of people in Walla Walla from his time as a photography hobbyist and printing manager at the Walla Walla Union Bulletin, a local newspaper in Walla Walla, Washington.
Frank Lowden Jones and Bonnie Jean Jaycox Jones were active members of the Walla Walla community throughout the first half of the 20th century. The Jones Family Papers contains, a scrapbook of postcards, sketches, insurance papers, and financial records. This collection, which dates from 1909 through 1988, also contains postcards, awards, and correspondence.
The Starrett's Seed Company Records houses the personal and business records of George Starrett of Starrett's Seed Company, which was in business between 1874 and 1958. Starrett's Seed Company a Washington seed company and was one of the preeminent businesses of Walla Walla in the late 1800s, with its influence reaching across the Palouse region as far north as Pullman and as far west as Yakima.
The Reverend George Henry Atkinson collection holds printed materials by and about the Reverend George Henry Atkinson, a pioneer who lived in Oregon from 1848 to 1889.
This collection contains materials related to the Walla Walla Shakespeare Club, a women's cultural organization founded in 1906.
The John McLoughlin Letters, which date from 1834 through 1846, contains letters from John McLoughlin written to Edwards Ermatinger.
James O. Sneddon was an alumni of University of Washington in Seattle, Washington, and worked as a professional photographer for over 35 years. The James Sneddon contains negatives taken on and around the campus of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington. This collection, which dates from 1961 to 1966, consists of shots of students, faculty, events, and buildings.
The Bald Eagle Club Collection, which dates from circa 1945, contains materials from the No. 2 chapter of the Bald Eagle Club in Walla Walla, Washington.
The Frank Lloyd Wright Collection spans from 1901 through 1964. It houses newspaper clippings, magazines and photocopies of published materials related to famed architect Frank Lloyd Wright.
The J.R. Cummins and Family Papers contain photographs, a hole-in-one trophy for Wayne Collier, and dance cards and invites. These papers, which date from 1914 through 1976, also contain yearbooks, WSU publications, and county sheriff certificates. There are also news clippings, a wedding photograph, and other related ephemera.
The Walla Walla Pioneer Pageant Collection includes badges, minutes and agendas, photographs and scrapbooks of the pageant, clippings, financial statements and other memorabilia related to the Pioneer Pageant "How the West was Won." This event was presented in Walla Walla WA, June 6 and 7, 1923 and May 28 and 29, 1924.
The Rich Family Collection consists of the personal and family records of the Rich family, dating from 1864 to approximately 1972. This collection contains a bible, and a scrapbook with photographs documenting the boxing career of Henry Rich, and other family documents.
The Cornelia Shields Collection of United States Census Materials contains materials from the 1990 and 2000 U.S. Census. It was compiled by Cornelia Shields, a Dayton, Washington volunteer for both censuses.
Etta B. Mealey was born on April 9, 1894, in Ashland, Oregon. The Etta Mealey Scrapbooks houses seven scrapbooks created by Etta Mealey.
Henry P. Isaacs and Lucie Fulton Isaacs, born in 1841 and circa 1840, both travelled the Oregon Trail at young ages to settle with their parents near Walla Walla, Washington. The Fulton and Isaacs Family Collection, which dates from circa 1862 to 1980, consists of newspaper clippings, photographs, pamphlets, typed documents about the history of the families, and a ledger from Isaacs's North Pacific Flour Mill.
Materials related to the business of a famers' cooperative located in Wenatchee, Washington.
The Civilian Conservation Corps Collection, which dates from 1934 to 1991, contains material related to the Civilian Conservation Corps in Walla Walla, Washington. The collection includes photographs, newspaper clippings, and a newsletter.
The Delphian Culture Club Records, which date from 1915 through 2017, contains meeting minutes, financial documents, and scrapbooks with personal photographs of group members.
The national fraternity, Beta Theta Pi, established the Whitman College Gamma Zeta chapter in 1914, and it has been a part of campus Greek life ever since. This collection consists of general records, publications, news articles, scrapbooks, ledgers, song books and manuals related to the social fraternity.
Materials related to the art department, Sheehan Gallery, and book arts.
Correspondence and photographs of a Seattle barbershop quartet known for its renditions of Southern spirituals and minstrel songs.
The Mountain Racing Association Collection, which dates from 1908 through 1955, contains minutes from an annual meeting as well as a letter explaining horse race ground rules and schedule.
Materials related to the flag carried by the Oregon Volunteers in 1855.
This collection contains the minute books of the Walla Walla Presidents' Council of Federated Women's Clubs contain summaries of monthly meetings, membership lists, and newspaper clippings.
This collection consists of assorted musical scores, posters, programs for recitals and other musical performances, notes from lectures to music classes, and newspaper clippings from the papers of Whitman music professor Stanley Plummer.
The Maysel Cooper Scrapbook is a scrapbook assembled by Maysel Cooper. This scrapbook, which dates circa 1908, consists of clippings, photographs and programs from Maysel's time at Whitman College.
This collection includes research materials of Joe Locati, an inspector with the United States Department of Agriculture, including photographs and newspaper articles related to agriculture in Walla Walla and the history of Italian Jesuits in the Northwest.
The Robertta Hunt Photographs contains slides of Walla Walla, Washington. These photographs, which date from 1962 through 1989, consist of winter scenes around town, and the annual Walla Walla Balloon Stampede.
The Richard Clem Geology Notebooks, which date from 1951 to 1974, contains Richard Clem's geology notebooks containing lecture notes on geology, physics, chemistry, and evolution.
Materials related to railroads operating in the Northwest region of the United States.
The records of the Archaeological Institute of America, Walla Walla Society, which document the transactions and membership of this archaeological interest group.
Materials related to Garden Clubs in Walla Walla, WA, including the Walla Walla Garden Club, the Walla Walla Men's Garden Club, Cultus Garden Club, and Evergreen Garden Club.
The John A. Fancher Papers, which date from circa 1925, include a copy of his reminiscences entitled "Rancher Quit Railroading to Farm at Medical Lake."
David L. Shoemaker was a farmer and a business owner in Walla Walla, Washington. The David L. Shoemaker Records contain two photocopies of daybooks kept by Shoemaker. These photocopies, the originals of which date from 1867-1897, contain livestock breeding records, cash records, and pasture and rent records.
Walla Walla, Washington's Free and Associated Masons Lodge no. 7 was issued its charter in 1867 by the Grand Lodge of Missouri. The Free and Associated Masons of Walla Walla, Lodge no. 7, Records, which date from 1867 to 1916, consist of Masonic pamphlets, publications, founding documents, guides, by-laws, and poll books.
The A.S. McClure Diary contains a copy of A.S. McClure's 1853 diary and a newspaper article.
John J. and Margaret Elida House Tomlinson moved to Gallatin Gateway, Montana in March of 1868. The Tomlinson Family Papers, which date from 1852 to 1896, contain nine ledgers in which the Tomlinsons logged their records.
The Walla Walla Arts Ephemera Collection contains a range of memorabilia from Walla Walla, Washington artistic events.
This collection contains a scrapbook related to the General Federation of Women's Clubs national convention in Seattle, 1932.
The Anna Farrar Papers consist of materials related to the life of Anna Farrar, a resident of Denver, Colorado. It contains a family bible, photographs, and high school diploma and grade reports. These papers, which date from 1897 through 1911, also contain programs and scenes from a seventh grade play and an autograph album.
George Bruce Marquis was born on July 6, 1879, and worked as the chief financial officer for Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington until his retirement in 1949. The George B. Marquis papers, which date from 1863 to 1967, consist of books by Marquis and others, photographs of family members, manuscripts, published articles, a portrait, assorted speeches, correspondence, publications, poetry, a diploma, and newspaper clippings.
The Grova C. Cookerly Scrapbook contains the Grova C. Cookerly scrapbook. The scrapbook includes newspaper clippings about Walla Walla, dating from 1940 to 1954.
This collection contains materials from the Whitman College Fencing Club.
This collection contains administrative records, budget proposals and reports of the Walla Walla Drug Abuse Council, which organized and implemented a number of programs associated with drug abuse education and prevention.
The Carl Penner Collection contains photocopies of writings and newspaper clippings documenting the life, honors, and inventions of Carl Penner. Carl Penner was born in 1889 and lived the majority of his life in Walla Walla, Washington.
The Alpha Eta chapter of the Delta Gamma national sorority was established at Whitman in 1916. This collection consists of memoranda, news articles, photographs, memorabilia, scrapbooks, and other records related to the sorority.
Purity Market and Grocery was a grocery store in Walla Walla, Washington founded by Fred Beechinor circa 1910. The Purity Market and Grocery consists of financial records, receipts, and photographs. These records, which date from 1918 through 1950, also contain bank statements, inventories, account logs, and personnel administration records.
The Purdy Cornelison and Anita Blucher Scrapbooks, spanning from 1934 to 1939, contain ephemera, photographs, programs, telegraphs from their time as students at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington.
The Whitman College Employees Association (WCEA) was formed in 1978 to promote better working conditions and secure transparent policies for non-faculty staff. The Whitman College Employees Association Records, which date from 1975 to 1986, consist of newsletters, correspondence, memoranda, survey data, and information about organized labor, evidencing the activities of the WCEA.
The Penrose Family Papers contains materials related to Dr. Stephen B. L. Penrose, who served as Whitman College President from 1894 to 1934, his wife Mary Shipman Penrose, and their children: Mary "Maysie" Penrose, Virginia Penrose, Frances Penrose Owen, Clement Biddle Penrose, Nathanial S. Penrose, and Stephen B. L. Penrose, Jr. The collection includes correspondence, diaries, travel journals, photographs, and biographical and genealogical information.
Materials related to foreign language, literature, and study abroad at Whitman College
This collection contains publications created by Whitman College students and student organizations. Included are student newspapers, literary journals, zines and magazines.
The Constitutional Convention of Washington Territory Collection, which dates from 1878 through 1978, contains records and documents related to the Constitutional Convention of Washington Territory in the late nineteenth century.
The Alice Reynolds Fischer scrapbook contains programs from Fischer's musical career. This collection, which dates from 1900 through 1948, consists of concert programs, announcements, and information on Alice's death.
The William S. Clark Papers contain ephemera related to William S. Clark and the Whitman Seminary. These papers, which date from 1855 through 1934, consist of notebooks, speeches, and scrapbooks. Also included are lists of early Walla Walla settlers, documents on the Nez Perce, and other related material.
Documents, dating from 1974-2001, related to Whitman College Trustee Emeritus and former Board of Trustees Chairman John Davis.
Materials related to Harper Joy Theatre productions.
The McFeely-Besserer Family Papers, which dates from 1856 to 1949, contains documents, photographs, and genealogical materials related to the McFeely and Besserer families.
The Edith Hinkley Quimby Papers contain autobiographical information, published articles, and text of speeches. This collection, which dates from 1940 through 1979, also contains correspondence and awards.
The Virginia Bryant Bedinger Scrapbook spans from 1938 through 1944. It contains ephemera from Virginia Bryant Bedinger's studies at Whitman College and the University of Oregon. It also includes materials documenting Virginia's summer activities, engagement, and post college travels and employment.
The Louis B. Perry and Richard S. Perry Manuscript contains the manuscript for the book, "A History of the Los Angeles Labor Movement, 1911-1941" by Louis B. and Richard S. Perry, published in 1963.
Newspaper clippings and records created by the Whitman College Communications Office
Contains the files of Dalia Corkrum, College Librarian and Director of the Penrose Library from 2005-2022. The collection spans the years 2005 to 2020 and includes Penrose Library records, records from Whitman College groups regarding the Library, and materials relating to Dalia's professional work.
Materials related to the Whitman College chapter of Mu Phi Epsilon, an honorary musical society. The collection contains scrapbooks, memorabilia and records related to the Mu Zeta chapter.
The Leonetti Cellar Collection, which dates from 1997 to 2014, contains material related to Leonetti Cellar, a winery in Walla Walla, Washington. The collection contains magazines, newspapers, photographs, and biographical and historical information about the winery.
The Velma Fry Photographs consists of photographs from the late 1920s of Whitman College students, buildings, and activities.
Correspondence, reports, and building records and photographs from the Fort Walla Walla complex.
Materials related to audits, reviews, and surveys of Whitman College.
The Charles W. Phillips Collection, which dates from 1872 to 1913, contains genealogical records, photographs, drawings, diary pages, correspondence, and maps. Charles W. Phillips lived in Walla Walla for most of his life and created Dreamland Park.
United States Wheat Associates was founded in 1980, with a focus on adjusting to a global wheat marketplace and dealing with a growing demand for United States wheat classes. The United States Wheat Associates, Walla Walla Branch Records, which dates from 1959 through the 1980s, consist of minutes, budgets, resolutions, financial records, publications, executive board documents, calendars, newspaper clippings, correspondence, membership records, work plans, reports, pamphlets, abstracts, bonds, marketing materials, and founding documents.
The Walla Walla Citizens Committee for Historical and Civic Development Records, dated circa 1962, houses organizational records of the Walla Walla Citizens Committee for Historical and Civic Development.
The Harper Joy Collection spans from 1961 through 1972. It includes newspaper clippings, postcards, theatre programs, and information about the life of Harper Joy.
The Vernon and Marylou Kegley Oral History houses an interview with Vernon and Marylou Kegley, and provides a personal account of their past and life stories.
The Illustrations from Frank T. Gilbert's "Historic Sketches of Walla Walla County" includes copies of sketches from Frank T. Gilbert's book "Historic Sketches of Walla Walla County."
Bill Corkrum was a longtime Walla Walla farmer, businessman, and aviator. This collection includes his college records, military records, business records, personal records, and photographs of the Corkrum family, one of the earliest families to settle in Walla Walla.
Materials (1976-1993) related to Jeannette Hayner's career as a Washington state senator and to the controversy surrounding her honorary doctorate from Whitman College in 1992.
Materials related to Donald H. Sheehan, Whitman College president from 1968 to 1974.
The Dean of Students records contains materials related to student affairs, student services, and the governance and guidance of student life at Whitman.
The Dorsey Franklin Baker Papers, which date from 1929 to 1961, contain Dorsey Franklin Baker's business papers, with a particular focus on his role as a member of the Whitman College Board of Trustees.
The Susannah G. Applegate Manuscript, which dates circa 1980, contains the manuscript titled "Jesse Applegate: Oregon's Prince of Pioneers," and chronicles the life story of Applegate, a prominent early pioneer.
Aerial photographs depicting Allied operations in Europe during World War II and personal memorabilia collected by Wallace Gendron. Correspondence and photos of Walla Walla Air Base.
This collection houses information about the life of a Washington pioneer, Robert Franklin Cummins.
The Walla Walla Bank Collection consists of materials related to banking institutions in Walla Walla, Washington including stock certificates, calendars, annual reports, anniversary publications, newspaper clippings, correspondence, and bank drafts.
This collection contains the scientific and personal papers of Walter Brattain, an inventor of the transistor and winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics, in addition to his family papers.
This collection consists mainly of reprints of professional publications by Walter Crosby Eells. Some professional correspondence and scrapbooks are also included.
The St. Paul Mission Historical Society Photographs, which date from 1911 through 1929, contain photographs compiled by the historical society depicting agricultural activities, fair and farm shows, parades, trains, landscapes, mountains, buildings, and city scenes.
Clarence E. Neumeier, born in 1907, worked for various government agencies such as the United States Department of Agriculture, the Civil Service Commission, the United States Army, and the United States Army Corps of Engineers. The Clarence E. Neumeier Papers, which date from circa 1929 to 1960, consist of correspondence, photographs, personnel records, appointment records, and documents from government agencies.
The Arthur H. Smith Chinese Artifact Collection, which dates from circa 1700 to 1930, consists of hand-painted scrolls, poetry, and wall decorations. This collection, which spans from 1700 to 1930, also contains advertisements, calligraphy, and accordion codices. It also houses printed pamphlets of philosophy and ethics, and a small wooden abacus.
Lisa Uddin is a professor of Art History and Visual Culture Studies at Whitman College. The Lisa Uddin Papers consists of the research materials for Zoo Renewal: White Flight and the Animal Ghetto, a design history of zoological parks in the United States. The collection spans from approximately 2004-2014, and contains ephemera and research materials from zoos in Detroit, Atlanta, Washington D.C., Seattle, San Diego, Portland, Rochester, Providence, Baltimore, and Toronto.
The First National Bank of Walla Walla Records contains materials related to The First National Bank of Walla Walla which was established by Levi Ankeny in 1878. These records contain correspondence, journals, and financial records. These records, which date from 1885 through 1926, also contain tax claims and forms, and two booklets titled, "Walla Walla and Banking," and "A Pioneer's Vision," which describes the history and development of the bank.
The Church Family Collection, which dates from the late 1800s through the 1980s, consists of family records, slides, and photograph albums.
The Edmund Cavileer Hinde Diary contains a copy of the diary of Edmund Cavileer Hinde.
The Gladys F. Benge Scrapbook houses a scrapbook from Gladys F. Benge, a Whitman College student who graduated in 1928. The material provides insight into student life at the time.
This collection contains materials related to the Chinese population of Walla Walla, Washington.
Materials related to Inland Northwest Theaters who owned and operated motion picture theaters in Walla Walla, La Grande, Yakima, Sunnyside, Kennewick, Pasco, and Toppenish.
The Percy Johnson Papers contain materials related to the life Percy Johnson and the Walla Walla Symphony Society. These papers contain photographs, Percy's musician's union card, and programs for the Walla Walla Symphony. These papers, which date from 1901 through 1969, also contains newspaper clippings and a history of the Walla Walla Symphony Society.
The Edith Smith Collection, dated from 1889 to 1953, is from the estate of Edith Smith, Whitman alumna, class of 1914. It houses photographs of Smith's college days, her students and the 1925 Native American Congress. It also consists of whitman college memorabilia, personal papers, correspondence and a scrapbook.
The Ginger Kelly Walla Walla Balloon Stampede Scrapbook contains the scrapbooks of Ginger Kelly, the first female balloon pilot in Washington State. They recount the history of the Walla Walla Balloon Stampede, Kelly's involvement in national ballooning events, and other ballooning news and information
Materials related to events and Greek life.
The Women's Coalition Scrapbook contains a scrapbook started by the Women's Coalition in 1988 to document women's presence on Whitman College's campus. This collection, which spans from 1989 through 2005, consists of programs, clippings, notes and fliers.
Materials related to Whitman College varsity athletics, sports and athletic classes, and intramural sports.
The Walla Walla County Conservation District Newsletters contains newsclippings and newsletters from the Walla Walla County Conservation District (WWCD). The WWCCD obtains grants to help landowners implement conservation practices that protect natural resources.
The Alpha Eta chapter of Tau Kappa Epsilon was chartered in 1934 as one of Whitman's national greek groups. The collection consists of legal documents, correspondence, memorabilia, publications, alumni and student records related to this fraternity.
Lester R. Armstrong was a professional photographer who operated out of Walla Walla, Washington. This collection contains his negatives, dating from circa 1917 to 1957, which primarily document life in Walla Walla, including portraits, town events, and buildings.
The Mary Carr Moore Papers, which dates from 1911 to 1986, contains materials related to Mary Carr Moore, an American composer. The collection consists of material related to the opera entitled "The Cost of Empire," and several published songs, operas, scores, and chamber works.
Materials related to the Whitman College Diversity Collection.
The Walla Walla Union-Bulletin photographs houses the negatives and prints taken by newspaper photographers documenting people, places, and events of the Walla Walla Valley from 1949 to circa 2010. The Walla Walla Union-Bulletin is a daily newspaper providing coverage of Walla Walla Valley since 1938.
Ben Flathers and Lloyd Rittenhouse were contemporaries and friends at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, both graduating circa 1936. The Ben Flathers and Lloyd Rittenhouse Papers, most of which dates from 1905 to 1963, contains portraits, team photographs, group photographs, and some newspaper clippings related to the shipping, packing, and lumber industries and the Washington State Penitentiary.
The Whitman College Archives Walla Walla Vertical Files Collection contains subject files pertaining to the history of Walla Walla.
The John F. Slides contains the photographs and 35mm slides of John F. hook, a photographer from Portland, Oregon. Included are images that document his travels throughout the Northwest and around the world, as well as his interest in railroads.
The Whitman College Press was a letterpress printing press that operated at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington from 1977 until 1985. This collection contains records of the operations of the Whitman College Press.
This collection contains two scrapbooks created by Marjorie Douglas during her time as a student at Whitman College between 1929 to 1933.
The Round Table Club was an invitational men's club, founded in 1916 in Walla Walla, Washington. The Round Table Club Records contains meeting minutes, schedules, correspondence and other materials dated from 1916 to 2014.
The Columbia Reproductions Photographs contain negatives of photographs that depict life in Walla Walla as well as wider Washington State. Columbia Reproductions was a photography company owned and operated by Dick Torrey.
The Walla Walla National Youth Administration Records consist of correspondence, orders, and payroll records. These records, which date from 1934 through 1941, also contain hourly reports, work sheets, monthly reports, and applications to join the NYA, work agreements, and bank forms.
The Chief Joseph Dam collection houses a Diorite and Granodiorite rock core drilled from the drainage holes of the Chief Joseph Dam. This collection, which dates circa 1950, also contains a pin of Chief Joseph's head.
Materials related to the Cartwright family of Walla Walla, Washington.
Personal and academic materials of Edith Davis from her time as a theatre professor at Whitman College from 1901-1946.
Kenneth E. Schilling was born in New Holstein, Wisconsin on October 1st, 1913. In 1935 he graduated from Lawrence University, and earned a master's degree from the University of Minnesota. He then taught at Eastern Oregon College before joining the Whitman faculty in 1944. Schilling married Martha Phillips in 1954.
Schilling's 35 years of teaching service at Whitman College included 25 years as chair of the Music Department. During his tenure at Whitman, Professor Schilling conducted over 2000 public performances with college and church choirs on the West Coast, Canada, and Alaska and adjudicated in 150 choral and vocal competitions and festivals. For 20 years he served as an officer and board member of the Walla Walla Community Concert Association. He was a charter member and past governor of the National Association of Teachers of Singing. He retired from Whitman in 1979. Schilling died in 2001.
Alpha Chi Omega (also known as Alpha Chi or A Chi O) is a women's fraternity founded on October 15, 1885 at DePauw University. The Beta Zeta Chapter of Alpha Chi Omega, a national sorority, was chartered from local sorority Theta Chi Theta in 1928. It was the fifth sorority to be chartered at Whitman College during a very active period in Greek Life. Alpha Chi Omega shut down in 1983 after many years of dwindling pledge numbers. Their former chapter room later hosted the Whitman chapter of Alpha Phi.
Elaine Frank Davison was born in Walla Walla, Washington on August 23, 1929 to Johann Conrad and Maria Catherine Frank, Germans from Russia who immigrated to the United States in 1905. She was the youngest of eight children. Her interest in the stories of the Volga Germans was piqued by her father's stories of his homeland. Upon his death in 1959, she took up genealogical research. Ultimately, she became responsible for recovering and preserving the history of her family's home village of Kautz / Werschinka. Davison spent her childhood in Walla Walla. After graduating from high school, she worked for the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph company. In 1949, she married George Hite Davison, and the couple moved to Spokane, Washington. They had four children: James Hite, Loralee, Julie Ann, and Karla Elaine. Elaine returned to work in 1960 at Sacred Heart Hospital in Spokane. The family returned to Walla Walla in 1963, where Elaine began working as a medical transcriptionist.
A self-taught researcher and writer, Davison self-published books about the village, entitled "Unsere Leute von Kautz" (Our People from Kautz). Her "Kautz Project" required numerous oral history interviews, as many of the relevant genealogical records remain in Germany and Russia. In 1990, Davison and her work were featured in "Making a Difference: A Centennial Celebration of Washington Women, Volume II," a curriculum handbook created by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
Elaine Frank Davison died on March 17, 2001.
Donald Sherwood was born on September 29, 1901 in Colville, Washington. He attended Whitman College from 1918 to 1922, graduating with a degree in economics and science. On December 7, 1929 he married Virginia Sherwood, and by 1933 he was a member of the Board of Directors of the Church Grape Juice Company. In 1951 Sherwood became a member of the Board of Overseers of Whitman College, and in 1954 he was named to the Board of Trustees, serving as the president from 1965 to 1972. In 1972 he donated one million dollars to the college. He died in September of 1994.
John F. Boyer, born in 1824, was a merchant, banker, trustee, treasurer, and active community member of Walla Walla, Washington. After living in several different locations across the United States including Kentucky, Indiana, Arkansas, and California, he settled in Walla Walla in 1862 with his wife, Sarah E. Baker. There, he worked with Dr. D. S. Baker, Sarah Baker's brother, in the mercantile business before the pair decided to open Baker Boyer Bank in 1869. Boyer served as the president of the bank until his death in 1897. Additionally, Boyer was the Walla Walla county treasurer for 12 years, an involved member of the Episcopal Church, and a trustee for Whitman College for 30 years. He was also the Whitman Board of Trustees treasurer for a short while before becoming its president a few months before his death. He had seven children: Charles S., Franklin D., Arthur A., Eugene H., John Edward, Annie I. Norton, and Imogen.
Kiwanis began in 1915 with the establishment of the first Kiwanis club in Michigan, and the organization soon expanded to other locations. Dedicated to fellowship and community service, Kiwanis became an international organization in 1916 with the addition of a Canadian Kiwanis club. Membership was extended to women in 1987. As of 2006, Kiwanis has become a worldwide service organization encompassing more than 8,400 clubs in 96 nations.
The Kiwanis Club of Walla Walla was organized in 1922 and received its charter later that same year. Activities of the club have generally focused on youth and community service projects, such as involvement in youth baseball teams and scholarships, Special Olympics, and Walla Walla Frontier Days. The first large-scale effort of the club was involvement in the development of the Whitman Monument grounds during the 1920s.
Since 1925, an important project of the club has been maintaining and running Camp Kiwanis. The camp property was donated to the Kiwanis Club by the Reynolds family and is sponsored by the Camp Kiwanis Foundation through the Kiwanis Club of Walla Walla. The camp is primarily used as a youth camp, and also as a retreat, recreational location, and meeting place for other organizations.
Sidonie Louise Pyle was born on December 4, 1903. She attended Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington as an economics major and a member of Kappa Kappa Gamma. She graduated from the College in 1922. She took on graduate work at the University of California, and later served as a captain in the U.S. Marine Corps from 1943 to 1945. She also worked as an insurance underwriter, served as a branch manager for a travel agency, and taught high school in Escondido, California. She died on March 11, 1989.
Born in Spokane County, in 1843, Reverend Eells lived in the Willamette Valley, graduated from Pacific University and Hartford Theological Seminary and became ordained in the Congregational Church. He returned to the northwest and spent most of his years in the Puget Sound region as a missionary to the tribes and white settlers until his death in 1907.
Ava Kidwell was born on October 10, 1896 in Rising City, Nebraska as Ava Colwell. Her family moved to Silverton, Oregon in circa 1903, and then moved to Walla Walla, Washington, in 1905. Kidwell began to work for the city of Walla Walla on January 3, 1921, and filled numerous office duties for the next 40 years. She was a cashier-bookkeeper for the water department until she was appointed city clerk on June 26, 1923, making her the second woman clerk in Washington at the time. Kidwell resigned as city clerk when she married Harry Kidwell on May 4, 1927. Her husband died in 1938, but Kidwell worked as the accountant for the office of R. F. McClean, the Walla Walla water superintendent, until October 10, 1961. Kidwell also worked as a part-time bookkeeper for the Crescent Drug Company from September 1, 1921 to December 31, 1975, when the business closed. She was a member of the Pioneer United Methodist Church, and a member of United Methodist Women, Susannah Wesley Circle, and the Women's Auxiliary of the Walla Walla Rescue Mission. She died on May 3, 1987 at the age of 90.
John Prentice Allen was born November 26, 1918, in Seattle, Washington to Rudolph and Anna Farrar Allen. He attended schools in Seattle and Aberdeen, Washington and graduated from Roosevelt High School in Seattle in 1936. He attended Whitman College, the University of Hawaii at Honolulu, the University of Colorado at Boulder, and the University of Kentucky at Lexington. He was a clerical worker at Whitman College from 1946 to 1950. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Washington, and in 1952 received a master's degree in librarianship from the University of Washington. John also served during World War II in the U.S. Navy as a Japanese language officer. He was a librarian at Central Washington University in Ellensburg between 1952 and 1965, when he moved to Washington State University. He retired in 1981. He was a co-owner of the Hilltop Restaurant and Motel at Pullman. He died June 25, 1991.
William M. Nuttall was born December 26, 1882, in Walla Walla to William F. and Myra Marcy Nuttall. He grew up on his parents' ranch in the Cottonwood Creek area, four miles south of Walla Walla. Between 1908 and 1922 he was employed by the Tierney-Toner Co. and later with Whitehouse-Drumheller Co. Sometime after 1923 he left Walla Walla and moved to California.
The Whitman College and Northwest Archives has maintained a vertical file about Whitman College since at least the 1960s. From the beginning, the purpose of the vertical file was to arrange and store small files on topics, memorabilia, and ephemeral material pertaining to Whitman College. For the most part, the vertical file contains only printed items. Manuscript material and other unique items were, generally, not placed in the vertical file. Some of the materials in the vertical file include: newspaper clippings, press releases, programs, speeches, reprints, and obituaries. Since the early 2000s, material has not been regularly added to the collection, but staff do occasionally add small additions.
Hattie Gordon was born circa 1900 in St. Louis, Missouri. She attended Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, and was involved with the academic honors society Phi Beta Kappa and social sorority Delta Gamma. She graduated from Whitman in 1926 with a Bachelor's of the Arts, and proceeded to earn a Master's degree and a Ph.D. in classics from the University of California, Berkeley. Gordon taught in Hawaii for a number of years, and led numerous alumni and fundraising activities at Whitman, earning the Gordon Scribner Award for Distinguished Service in 1987. Hattie Gordon died on January 20, 2002.
The Walla Walla Valley Pioneer and Historical Society was formed in 1886, by descendants of Walla Walla's early white settlers. The society helped found the Fort Walla Walla Museum in 1957. The museum originally focused on the preservation and display of pre-automobile agriculture materials. The Fort Walla Walla Museum was initially operated out of City Hall, but in 1968 it moved to occupy 15 acres within the original 640 acre Fort Walla Walla military reservation.
Cecil P. "Bud" Compau was born on May 28, 1897 in Elgin, Oregon. He graduated from Washington State College in 1923 before working as a field representative for a bank in Spokane. In 1946 he was elected to the executive board of the Inland Empire Council of Boy Scouts. He died on May 29, 1983.
William Tugman was born on October 26, 1921. Tugman graduated from the University of Washington law school before moving to Walla Walla in 1951. Over the course of his career he acted as a local attorney and private counsel, and served on the Superior Court of Washington state. He died on June 12, 1989.
A. Kyger was born in 1830 in Indiana. He moved to Walla Walla, Washington, where he married Lucinda Kyger and had a son, Frank Kyger.
The Whitman College and Northwest Archives has maintained a vertical file since at least the 1960s. From the beginning, the purpose of the vertical file was to arrange and store small files on a person, often including memorabilia and ephemeral material, from the Walla Walla Valley and the Northwest. For the most part, the vertical file contains only printed items. Manuscript material and other unique items were, generally, not placed in the vertical file. Some of the materials in the vertical file include: newspaper clippings, press releases, programs, speeches, reprints, and obituaries. Since the early 2000s, material has not been regularly added to the collection, but staff do occasionally add small additions.
E.T. "Tom" Rice was born in November 29, 1899 in Colville, Washington. He started working for printing presses at the age of twelve. He stopped when he entered the Army during World War I. Upon his return, he spent the 1920s in Seattle, attending the University of Washington. Rice was a founding member of the Washington Athletic Club. In 1932, Rice and his wife, LaRue C. Dawson, moved to Walla Walla, Washington, where Rice began working as a manager of the commercial printing department at the Union-Bulletin, a local newspaper. Rice then purchased the the Inland Printing Company which he ran until 1969. Rice was a photography hobbyist and was known for taking pictures of people in Walla Walla and hanging them in his office. In Walla Walla, Rice was involved in the Junior Chamber of Commerce, Wagon Wheelers, Rotary Club, Blue Mountain Ski Club, American Legion, and Active Club. E.T. Rice was survived by LaRue C. Dawson, and two sons, Tom and James Rice.
Frank Lowden Jones was born in Walla Walla, Washington, June 16, 1893. He attended local schools and studied for two years at Whitman College. In 1917 he married Jean Jaycox in Walla Walla. His business career started in Seattle with Pacific Steamship Co. In 1919 he became affiliated with Jones-Scott Co. as secretary-treasurer and operated that firm's Seattle office, later returning to the Walla Walla office. Frank was for many years the general manager of Walla Walla Canning Co. He had been identified with that company since its inception in 1932. Frank was active in many fraternal organizations and was a supporter of Whitman College for many years. He was a member of the Board of Overseers, a trustee and a member of the finance committee.
Bonnie Jean Jaycox Jones was born in Walla Walla in 1893. She attended Sharpstein School, graduated from Walla Walla High School, attended Whitman College for two years, and attended the University of Washington. She married F. Lowden Jones on November 8, 1917. The settled in Walla Walla and Bonnie Jean designed their home on University and Brookside. Bonnie Jean parented 22 young women through their teenage years, providing a home for the students who needed a place to live. The couple started this project during the Depression when many families had to split up because of financial problems. Since the Joneses didn't have children, the young women became their family and they helped them through Whitman College. They also adopted one of the girls, Ingrid Hylland from Norway. Bonnie Jean died in 1988.
Starrett's Seed Company was Washington's pioneer seed company and was one of the preeminent businesses of Walla Walla in the late 1800s, with its influence reaching across the Palouse region as far north as Pullman and as far west as Yakima. Established in 1873 by George Starrett, who moved to Walla Walla on October 9, 1870, their first seed catalog was published in January, 1874. George Starrett passed the company to his son William George Starrett in 1897, and died on April 5, 1906. The business was passed to George Starrett's youngest daughter, Derotha in 1935, after William George's death on July 13, 1935. The last record of the Starrett Seed Company in the Walla Walla city directory is in 1958.
The Walla Walla Shakespeare Club was a women's cultural organization founded in 1906. The club was a member of the Walla Walla Presidents' Council of Federated Women's Clubs, formed in September 1929 to bring together the leaders of local women's clubs.
James O. Sneddon was an alumni of University of Washington in Seattle, Washington, and worked as a professional photographer for over 35 years.
The Bald Eagle Club, Incorporated is a non-profit club founded in Olympia, Washington in 1947. The group aims to facilitate conversations about what it means to be bald and work towards any advancements concerning hair restoration. A bald head or general lack of hair is a prerequisite for membership into this organization. The club formed a second chapter based in Walla Walla, Washington and was eventually launched nationwide in 1953.
John R. Cummins was born on July 3, 1880 in Walla Walla, Washington. He married Nellie Cummins, with whom he had a daughter, Eileen A. Cummins. He died on June 8, 1978. Wayne Collier was born on March 9, 1901, in Walla Walla. He married Eileen A. Cummins. He died on July 18, 1988.
The Walla Walla Pioneer Pageant was an event that took place in Walla Walla, Washington. The pageant was centered around "How the West Was Won," a play written by Whitman College President Stephen Penrose, and directed by Percy Jewett Burrell. The Walla Walla Pageant Association, Inc. was organized to produce the event. The play depicted the history of pioneers in the Northwest from a very pioneer-centric perspective. Planning for the pageant began in 1922 and was performed in both 1923 and 1924. The original script for the pageant was written by Stephen Penrose, and the pageant was directed by Percy Jewett Burrell.
Omar Whitman Rich, born September 15, 1863, was a farmer and a teacher who married Abbie Angeline Brown, born April 24, 1874, in June 1891. They sent three of their children to Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington: Theodore "Ted" Rich, who graduated in 1921 with a degree in Economics, Louise Rich Buck, who graduated in 1928, and Henry Rich, who boxed in the Walla Walla area under the pseudonym Richie Davis. The Rich family are direct descendants of Samuel Whitman, the grandfather of Marcus Whitman.
Etta B. Mealey was born on April 9, 1894, in Ashland, Oregon. She attended Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington. Mealey died on May 3, 1987.
Henry P. Isaacs and Lucie Fulton Isaacs, born in 1841 and circa 1840, both travelled the Oregon Trail at young ages to settle with their parents near Walla Walla, Washington. They met in 1860, shortly before Henry opened a flour mill in Walla Walla. The mill became very successful, providing milled flour for most of southeastern Washington and the surrounding area. They both died around 1915.
The Civilian Conservation Corps was a government relief program that began in 1933 and continued until 1942. It provided jobs to young, unmarried men from needy families during the Great Depression. A part of the New Deal of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, it provided unskilled manual labor jobs related to the conservation and development of natural resources in rural lands owned by federal, state and local governments.
The Delphian Culture Club was started in 1915 as a Walla Walla area women's book club. At the time of its founding it was a part of the national Delphian Society, which closely monitored the group's studies. The club met in the homes of members, selected in alphabetical order. Members of the Delphian Culture Club were active volunteers throughout World War Two. The club was officially disbanded as a reading group at a November 14, 2017 meeting, although the remaining members agreed to continue seeing each other in an unofficial capacity.
Beta Theta Pi is a North American social fraternity founded in 1839 at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. The Whitman College chapter originated as a local fraternity, Delta Phi Delta, in 1910. It was chartered as the Gamma Zeta Chapter of Beta Theta Pi in 1916, making it the second National Fraternity on campus. It is a member of the Miami Triad along with Sigma Chi and Phi Delta Theta (which have also established chapters on campus.) The group is the longest continuously operating fraternity at Whitman, and has several notable alumni, including actor Adam West and former Whitman College president, Chester Maxey, who helped charter the chapter.
The Enchanters were founded as the Seattle Lions Club Quartette, presumably in the mid 1920s. Its members were Marshall Sohl (first tenor), Elmore Bostwick (second tenor), Rudolph Allen (first bass), and Cecil Remington (second base). The group performed at Lions Club functions, at venues throughout Washington state, and toured in California. In 1928, the quartet recorded "Deep River" and "Moanin' Lady" for the Columbia Record Company, becoming the first Lions Club quartet to be recorded professionally.
By 1929, the group had changed its name to the Enchanters. The quartet performed regularly on radio station KJR in Seattle, Washington and developed a following of fans who enjoyed their old time Southern repertoire of spirituals and minstrel songs. Other broadcasters carried the Enchanters Quartet's programs, enabling listeners throughout the Pacific Northwest, Western Canada, and beyond to hear their music.
The Walla Walla Presidents' Council of Federated Women's Clubs was affiliated with the General Federation of Women's Clubs, a national organization founded in 1890. The Walla Walla Presidents' Council was formed in September 1929 to bring together the leaders of local women's clubs and was part of the Southeastern Washington District of the General Federation of Women's Clubs.
The Walla Walla Presidents' Council united local women's groups in common purposes, such as fundraising and community service. Clubs represented from the inception of the council include the Park and Civics Club, Delphian Culture Club, Art Club, Reading Club, Shakespeare Club, Russell Creek Club, and the Educational Club. From 1929 to 1953, at least 15 clubs were represented in the Walla Walla Presidents' Council.
During its monthly meetings, the Walla Walla Presidents' Council planned fundraising activities to benefit veterans and the war effort, and luncheons that brought together members of Walla Walla's various women's clubs. Club members also presented talks on social topics such as education and American citizenship and occasionally hosted officials from the Washington Council of Federated Women's Club. Walla Walla Presidents' Council work was divided among committees, including the Public Welfare, Endowment Fund, Foundation Fund, Press and Publicity, Motion Pictures, Music and Civic Art, and Junior Clubs Committees. Although the Walla Walla Presidents' Council continued at least until 1961, the 1953-1961 minute book was lost.
Stanley Reeves Plummer was a Whitman College musical performer and educator. From 1950 until his retirement in 1981, he taught numerous Whitman students piano, organ, harpsichord, music theory and music history.
After retirement, he continued to perform, including a traditional pre-Halloween performance as he provided organ accompaniment to such silent horror films as "The Hunchback of Notre Dame", "Phantom of the Opera", and "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari".
Professor Plummer also served the local Walla Walla community, playing for school graduations, weddings and other events. He performed with the Spokane Symphony, the Utah Symphony, the Oregon Symphony, and the Walla Walla Symphony and chamber orchestras. He also served as harpsichordist and director of music for the Ashland Shakespearean Festival in the 1950s.
In 1908, Maysel Cooper graduated from Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington with a Bachelor's in History and Economics. She was involved with the Philolithian Club, a literary society, and was an accomplished musician.
Joe J. Locati was born in 1908, the fourth son of Milanese immigrants. He was the first member of his family to attend high school. After graduating, he enrolled in business school but eventually turned to gardening. His first job with the Walla Walla Gardener's Association eventually led him to become an inspector for the Washington State Department of Agriculture.
In 1978, after his retirement, he wrote The Horticultural Heritage of Walla Walla County, 1818-1977. It has become a well-known resource for area growers and historians. He also penned a manuscript titled, "Walla Walla Sweet Onion: The French Connection." Locati died in 1998.
Richard Hallowell Clem was born in 1925. He taught geology at Whitman College beginning in 1951. His two areas of research were Miocene intracanyon basalt flows and large Pleistocene mammals. He died in 1974 in Walla Walla, Washington, at age 49.
The Archaeological Institute of America (A.I.A.) was established in 1879 "for the purpose of promoting and directing archaeological investigation and research" through various scholarly and educational activities. Through its local societies, the A.I.A. sponsors lectures and other events related to archaeology.
The Walla Walla Society of the A.I.A., the twenty-second local society formed under the auspices of the institute, was organized in Walla Walla, Washington, in 1906. Charter members of the society included the Walla Walla Art Club, the Whitman College Library, Whitman College Professor Louis F. Anderson and Mabel Baker Anderson, and Whitman College President Stephen B. L. Penrose and Mary Shipman Penrose.
Walla Walla, Washington's Free and Associated Masons Lodge no. 7 was issued its charter in 1867 by the Grand Lodge of Missouri. On June 7, 1952, Lodge no. 7 relocated to the Walla Walla Masonic Center.
John J. and Margaret Elida House Tomlinson moved to Gallatin Gateway, Montana in March of 1868. They bought land and opened a lath and shingle mill, which they operated until July 1874. In 1874, they sold the lath and shingle mill and opened Valley Flouring Mill, which ran until 1879 when it was sold.
The General Federation of Women's Clubs is an international organization dedicated to volunteer service and community improvement. The Federation was founded in 1890 by Jane Croly, a professional journalist. After being denied entrance to an all male press party, Croly founded her own women's club called Sorosis. On the Sorosis' 21st anniversary in 1889, Croly invited women's clubs throughout the U.S. to New York City to attend a convention. On April 24, 1890, 63 clubs ratified the Generation Federation of Women's Clubs constitution and officially formed the group.
Anna Farrar was born in Denver, Colorado in 1891 and spent her youth in the city. She graduated from the Wolcott School in 1911.
George Bruce Marquis was born on July 6, 1879. He attended Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington from 1901 to 1905. He worked as the chief financial officer for Whitman until his retirement in 1949. He was a prolific writer, known for his adventure tales of the West. He died on February 20, 1955, at the age of 75.
Grova C. Cookerly was born in September, 1884 in Indiana. She moved to Walla Walla in the early 1900s, where she married Mattie C. Cookerly. She died in August, 1960.
The Whitman College Fencing Club is one of the oldest active student groups on campus. The Whitman Fencing Team was formed in the 1940s, and in 2007 the name was changed to the Whitman College Fencing Club. As a club, the organization focuses on helping members improve their technique and explore different types of armed combat.
Walla Walla Drug Abuse Council (DAC) was appointed by the County and City councilmen in December 1969, by the request of Governor Daniel Evans. The DAC studied local problems for one year with youth, college and community leaders. After the year-long study, in 1971, the DAC commenced monthly meetings to assess alcohol and drug use, implement education and prevention programs, and monitor community progress. Programs included community education, speakers and panels, and targeted youth and schools. The DAC encouraged the participation of youth in their activities, and students served on the Drug Abuse Council.
The DAC was closely connected with the New Morning Guild, or the New Morning Inn, a drop-in-center for youth. This program was supported by the Walla Walla School District and the Council. According to reports, the Guild served approximately 100 youth, hosting over 1500 visits per month. New Morning facilitated craft workshops, educational tutoring, presentations, employment counseling, and agency referrals.
The DAC was dissolved in August 1974. In the foreclosure statement, the City Council announced its formal support of substance-abuse programs, such as New Morning, and school and community education.
Carl Penner was born on January 4, 1889, in Walla Walla, Washington. He grew up on a farm with his parents and three siblings. As an adult he was owned a blacksmith shop in Walla Walla. He was also a farmer and inventor, most known for the food quick freezer, which was widely used by the army during World War Two. He was the mayor of Starbuck, Washington for six years. Carl Penner built the Pioneer Museum at the request of the Pioneer Historical society at age 77, and helped found the Fort Walla Walla museum at age 90. He received many awards, including the 1967 Washington State Outstanding Senior Citizen Award, the 1973 Chamber of Commerce Merit Award, and the 1974 Walla Walla Elks Distinguished Citizen Award. He died on July 19, 1983.
Delta Gamma was established in 1873 at the Lewis School for Girls in Oxford, Mississippi. The Whitman College Chapter of the sorority, Alpha Eta, was chartered in 1916 from local sorority, Gamma Kappa, which holds the distinction of being the first known unofficial fraternal association on campus, as it was likely established in 1903. The sorority, sometimes referred to as D.G., is the longest continually operating sorority on campus.
Purity Market and Grocery was founded circa 1910 by Fred Beechinor. Based in Walla Walla, Washington, they sold groceries to residents through the late 1950s.
Anita Cornelison, originally Blucher, was born on December 24, 1916 in Kenosha, Wisconsin to Joseph and Alice Blucher. Shortly after her birth, her parents moved to Seattle, Washington where Anita primarily grew up. After graduating high school, Anita went to Whitman College, where she graduated from in 1939 with a B.A. in English and a minor in History and French. Anita and Purdy met at Whitman in 1937, and got married in 1939.During her time at Whitman, she was involved with Delta Delta Delta, a sorority on campus. After graduating from Whitman College, she went on to work as a substitute teacher and a homemaker. She died in 1990.
Purdy Cornelison was born in Pendleton, Washington to James Maupin and Lavara Purdy Cornelison. He graduated from Whitman College in 1938 with a B.A. in Economics and Business administration. During his time at Whitman College, he was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity. He later went on to teach Biology in the public school system for 35 years. Purdy died in 2009. Both Anita and Purdy were survived by Margaret Hogland and James Cornelison.
The Whitman College Employees Association (WCEA) was formed on January 25, 1978 by a nearly unanimous vote of forty seven college staff members. According to the WCEA constitution and bylaws, the purpose of the organization was to "promote the welfare of the employees of Whitman College and to secure a better means of communication with the administration of the College." The formation of WCEA began in 1977 when Whitman staff members Claire Norsworthy, Sandi Jensen, Sharon Kespohl, Sally Weakley, Donna Chiarelott, Mike Soper, and Carol Paynter, distributed a questionnaire to women staff members employed by the college. The questionnaire included questions about salary, job classification, opportunities for promotion, and workplace satisfaction. A majority of the responses indicated dissatisfaction with working conditions at Whitman, including unfair salary practices, no written set of regulations or policies, and informal job descriptions.
Over the next several years, the WCEA was able to negotiate a slight increase in staff salaries, the publication of a staff handbook which included information about fringe benefits and job categorization, and a formal grievance policy. The association also organized several additional salary surveys, worked to educate staff about their rights as employees, and continued to push for pay equity. According to the records, the WCEA appears to have no longer been active after 1987 due to low membership, but at its height more than fifty percent of staff were involved.
Stephen Beasley Linnard Penrose was born in 1864 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He moved to the Walla Walla Valley in 1890 to work as a minister after attending Williams College. In 1892, Penrose was elected to Whitman College's Board of Trustees. He became Whitman's president on October 5, 1895. In 1897, he married Mary Deming Shipman. Whitman remained president until 1934.
On December 20, 1859, Reverend Cushing Eells convinced the Washington Territorial Legislature to grant a charter to form the Whitman Seminary in honor of his fellow missionaries Marcus and Narcissa Whitman. By 1866, construction of an initial two-story building was completed and the school opened in the city of Walla Walla. On November 28, 1883, the legislature issued a new charter, transforming the seminary into a four-year degree-granting private college.
Blue Moon is a literary magazine published by Whitman College students. Published annually since 1924, with a hiatus from 1932-1989, the student-run publication features poetry, prose, and art submitted by the Whitman community. Blue Moon won the 2012 Columbia Scholastic Press Gold Crown and the College Magazine Silver Crown awards.
Published in 2012, Break Gound is a collection of stories, essays, letters, poems and art that revolves around the topic of sexual assault. The writers of Break Gound were inspired to construct a magazine that would facilitate important discussions and a space for reflection in the hopes of changing our culture over time.
Carbon-14 was a student-run publication from the early 1990s. It was published bi-monthly from October 1990 until January 1991. A group of around 20 students got together to start a publication that contained an eclectic mix of contemporary thoughts, poems, essays, cartoons, recipes and more. The editors and staff noted that Carbon-14 was written less with the intention of producing an actual paper and was instead more process-oriented.
The Circuit is a publication of the Whitman Wire that was started in the fall of 2011. The Wire staff wanted to create another space for expressing creative ideas and individual voices. They release themed issues that range from "The Home Issue" to "The Graduation Issue" that contain photos, essays, reviews, crossword puzzles and horoscopes.
The Clock Tower was first published in 1939. This literary magazine features short fiction, articles, letters, original humor and cartoons.
The Codex was a magazine published by Whitman Students from 1916-1921. It features short stories, poetry, essays and other forms of writing. The Codex was written with the intention of sharing the written work of the college as a whole rather than any single department.
Faire was a fine arts magazine from 1974-1987. It was published three times a year and includes a variety of poetry, photographs, visual art and creative writing.
The Genius: Western Students Graphic Arts Quarterly was a magazine created to share and advertize the written and visual works of college students around the western region. It contains a variety of paintings, photographs, short fiction and poetry.
Hey Man was a monthly magazine published by the staff members of KWCW, the college's radio station. It was dedicated to all things music, and includes album reviews, interviews, concert reviews and personal recommendations.
Masque was a literary magazine from the late 1950s that featured writing and artwork that was considered by some, to be the best from the college at the time. The staff was lead by Gerald Cohen, an instructor in English and French, and Richard Rasmussen an Associate Professor of Art.
The Narrator was an independent student run, non-profit newspaper that was first published on January 29, 1969. The editors and writers were trying to create a newspaper that differed from the student newspaper, the Pioneer, and allowed for different perspectives. The publication had an emphasis on improving student-faculty-administration communication, and providing a diverse spectrum of student voices. The Narrator was published throughout the spring of 1969, and the staff produced its final issue on April 30, 1969.
The Sheet was a newsletter-style publication written anonymously by members of the outlawed fraternity, Tau Nu Epsilon, in the 1930s. The publication contained humorous commentary on taboo topics, and each issue was dedicated to revealing a scandal on campus.
The Whitman College Pioneer was a student-run newspaper. The Pioneer was published weekly since 1896. Issues covered campus news, sports, arts, special events, and more. The name of the newspaper was changed to the Whitman Wire over the summer of 2016, because the editorial staff believed that the paper's name no longer reflected Whitman's mission and campus culture.
Quarterlife is a student literary journal published four times a year. It includes submissions of poetry, prose, sketches, photos, and other art works by the Whitman community. The issues have topical themes such as "Honey" and "Gas Stations." The publication was founded in 2006 on the belief that everyone is a writer, and everyone has a message to share.
Queering is a publication focused on empowering the LGBTQ community on campus. It was published as a safe space to facilitate and engage in conversation about queer issues. The writing and visual art comes from students of all sexual orientations and backgrounds.
The Secession was a magazine that featured short essays, comics and cartoons. It was created with the intention of providing an open space for creative works that was less selective than other campus publications. In 2011, the named changed to The Succession.
The Source was an annual publication that featured reviews and critiques of a handful of courses from each department. The mission of this catalog was to work towards improving classes while providing a glimpse into the Whitman education system.
The Whitman Academic Journal was an annual publication that was dedicated to student research, with submissions from the majority of departments on campus. The first issue was published in the spring 2000.
The Whitman College Collegian was created in 1893 as the college's first student run newspaper. It was published once a month from January to May 1893.
The name of Whitman College's student newspaper was changed from the Whitman College Pioneer to the Whitman Wire over the summer of 2016, because the editorial staff believed that the paper's name no longer reflected Whitman's mission and campus culture. They argued that the term "Pioneer" was and is symbolic of a celebratory story of white settlers taking land from the Cayuse, Walla Walla, and Umatilla peoples.
Yeast was a literary magazine that was created after the end of Blue Moon in 1933.The work consists of poetry, short essays, and fiction. It was sponsored by students from Whitman College but accepted contributions from other schools. The main purpose was to spark creativity and a desire to write within its readers.
The first Washington Territory Constitutional Convention happened in Walla Walla, Washington in the summer of 1878. During this time, legislators came together to draft a state constitution that was approved by the majority of voters. This document was not recognized by congress. The official Washington State Constitution was composed over a decade later in 1889.
Alice Reynolds Fischer was born in 1878, and attended the University of Michigan where she graduated with a degrees in piano and voice in 1901. She was the Whitman College instructor of piano-forte and voice, and also served as the Walla Walla Symphony conductor from 1924 until 1934 after her husband's sudden death. She died in 1945.
William S. Clark was born in April, 1857 in Oregon. He married Eva Clark in Walla Walla, where they raised their daughter, Evelyn. He died on December 31, 1936.
Charles Besserer was born October 10, 1838, near Heidelberg, Germany. At 17 years of age he enlisted in the English army. While a member of the army he was sent to Washington Territory. When his term of enlistment was over he decided to remain in Walla Walla, Washington and served with the Union Army in the Civil War. He briefly was engaged in the grocery business, but in 1875 turned his attention to newspaper publication. He purchased a paper called Spirit of the West, which was later renamed the Watchman. He continued in the publishing business in Walla Walla until 1898 when he moved to California. He died there in 1912.
John McFeely was born near Dayton, Ohio, on March 3, 1868. He came to Walla Walla, Washington in 1891, where he found employment as a horseshoer. He eventually opened his own shop on the corner of 4th and Alder Street in Walla Walla. Later he built the three-story McFeely Hotel. He also owned eight hundred acres of wheat land near Prescott, Washington. He was married December 9, 1899, to Miss Martha Besserer, the daughter of Charles Besserer. He also served as Chief Engineer of the Walla Walla Fire Department. He died in 1938.
Edith Hinkley Quimby was born July 10, 1891, in Rockford, Illinois. As a child she moved with her family to Boise, Idaho, where she completed high school. She graduated from Whitman College in 1912 with a degree in physics and mathematics. She taught science in the high school at Nyssa, Oregon for two years before entering the University of California in 1914. In 1915 she married Shirley Leon Quimby, who was also a graduate student in physics. In collaboration with Dr. Gioacchino Failla, chief physicist at the Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases in New York City, she began studying in 1919 the therapeutic use of X-rays and radium. Her principal concern was how to measure the penetration of radiation and determine the precise dosage for a patient with the fewest side effects. Dr. Quimby remained an associate of Dr. Failla, first at Memorial Hospital and then at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons, for the next forty years as a researcher, scientist and teacher. Dr. Quimby's work in establishing the properties of radium earned her the Janeway medal of the American Radium Society in 1940, the first time the award had gone to a woman. After World War II, foreseeing the growing use of radioactive isotopes, she devoted much of her time to protecting those handling the dangerous substances from harmful exposure. As professor emeritus, after 1960, she continued as a special lecturer, took an active part in directing the radiological laboratory, wrote scientific papers and was associated with the National Council on Radiological Protection and Measurement. Dr. Quimby died in 1982.
Virginia Bryant Bedinger was born on January 27, 1921 to Grady and Connie Bryant in Walla Walla, Washington. Virginia graduated from Walla Walla High School and went to Whitman College in 1938. She continued her degree in Journalism from the University of Oregon from 1940 through 1943. Virginia met her husband Phyl Payne at Whitman and they were married in 1944, and later had a son, Kirby Payne. They moved to Brazil shortly after where Virginia worked as a journalist for Time Life and Phyl managed a hotel. They were later transferred to the Dominican Republic. Shortly after, Phyl and Virginia were divorced. She later met her second husband, Ben Bedinger, on a trip to Mexico. They married in 1961. Virginia continued to work as a journalist in Seattle, Washington and Austin, Texas until her retirement. Virginia was an avid golfer and world traveler. She died on February 14, 2013.
President Clemen created the Office of Public Relations in 1935 to coordinate college publicity and student recruiting activities. He appointed Victor Shawe as the first Director of Public Relations. The current Whitman College Communications Office, part of the Development and College Relations group, is responsible for promoting Whitman College as well as communicating the goals and accomplishments of the college people and departments. The Communications Office publishes Whitman Magazine and The Fountain campus newsletter and manages the college Web site, media relations, and other communications services.
Dalia Corkrum served as College Librarian and Director of the Penrose Library from 2005-2022.
Mu Phi Epsilon is a co-ed musical fraternity intended to honor student achievements in musicianship and scholarship. The society was originally founded in 1903 at the Metropolitan College of Music in Cincinnati, Ohio as a sorority for female musicians. The sorority went coed in 1977, after Title IX legislation demanded that all professional and honor societies admit all sexes. Whitman students established the Mu Zeta chapter in 1920 at the Conservatory to honor high-achieving female musicians. The Whitman chapter ceased operations on campus in the late 1970s, but the alumni chapter remains active to this day.
Leonetti Cellar was founded in 1977 by Nancy and Gary Figgins as Walla Walla's first commercial winery. Today, it is run by Figgins' son, Chris Figgins, and contains seven vineyards around Walla Walla Valley, Washington.
Velma Fry was born in April, 1902 in Spokane, Washington. She married Walter L. Fry in 1932. She passed away on October 4, 1989.
Fort Walla Walla was established as a U.S. Cavalry post in 1856. It was used by the U.S. military from 1856 to 1866, and from 1873 to 1910. The fort played a significant role in U.S. military engagements with Native American tribes and the protection of white settlers in the Inland Northwest in the 1860s and 1870s. After 1880, military personnel stationed at the fort devoted their time to exploration, occasional rescue of civilians from the elements or conflicts with Native Americans, and the protection of civilian property.
In 1910, the U.S. War Department abandoned Fort Walla Walla. A fire in the Walla Walla's St. Mary's Hospital in 1915 prompted the use of buildings of the former Fort Walla Walla for the provision of medical care to the community. In 1922, a U.S. Veterans' Hospital was opened at the former Fort Walla Walla complex.
Charles W. Phillips was born on May 27, 1855 in Salem, Oregon. He and his family moved to Walla Walla in 1860. In 1877, Phillips was a scout for General Howard in the Nez Perce Indian Wars. On November 3, 1881, he married Nellie Siskyou Rockerfellow and the pair moved to La Grande, Oregon to start a family. There, they owned a hardware store. After three years, the Phillips moved back to Walla Walla. Phillips created and built a park called Dreamland which opened in 1903. The park contained a zoo, garden, aviary, athletic field swimming pool, and outdoor lake. Phillips died in June, 1922.
United States Wheat Associates was originally the Western Wheat Associates (WWA), an organization founded in April of 1959 to expand international markets for wheat from the Pacific Northwest. In 1980, the WWA merged with the Great Plains Wheat Market Development Association to form the United States Wheat Associates, with a focus on adjusting to the global wheat marketplace and dealing with a growing demand for United States wheat classes. United States Wheat Associates work to help wheat buyers, millers, bakers, wheat food processors, and government officials understand the quality, value, and reliability of all six classes of U.S. wheat.
The Walla Walla Citizens Committee for Historic and Civic Development was formed May 1, 1962, for the purpose of establishing a museum in Fort Walla Walla Park. After six years of planning and budgeting, the Fort Walla Walla Museum opened in 1968. At one point, the committee had upward of 50 members, many of whom were influential community members. They merged with the Pioneer and Historical Society around 1975; an organization which manages the museum to this day.
Harper Joy was born in Missouri in 1894, was orphaned shortly after and was later adopted by Henry and Annie Joy. Joy grew up in Walla Walla and later attended Whitman College, where he graduated in 1922. Directly after his graduation, he began to work for Ferris and Hargrove and continued on with this company for 40 years, seeing it merge into Pacific Northwest Company, and later the National Fidder-Peabody Brokerage Firm. Not only was Joy well-known in the business world, but he also was fond of clowning. Harper Joy died in 1972 at the age of 74 and was survived by his wife, Dorothy Joy, and their four kids.
Vernon Kegley was born on April 22, 1921 in Illinois. He attended Whitman College and graduated with a degree in economics. He was part of the U.S. Air Corps and the Air Force Reserves during World War II and the Korean War. He worked at Baker-Boyer National Bank in Walla Walla, Washington for 41 years before retiring in 1986. He married Marylou Coleman in 1948 at the First Presbyterian Church in Walla Walla. Mr. Kegley passed away on November 12, 2014.
Marylou Coleman was born on March 24, 1921 and grew up in Tillamook, Oregon. She attended Whitman College and graduated from Eastern Washington College of Education. She worked as a school teacher in Seattle and at the Paine School Walla Walla. She married Vernon Kegley in the First Presbyterian Church in Walla Walla on June 20, 1948. She died on July 8, 2009.
Frank T. Gilbert was a resident of Walla Walla, Washington and a historian in the late 1800s. Alfred Burr was an illustrator in the Walla Walla area, who contributed to multiple books on Walla Walla history, in addition to Gilbert's work.
Uriah Franklin "Bill" Corkrum was born in Dixie, Washington on March 1, 1917 to a family of early settlers of Walla Walla County, dating back to the 1850s. He attended Washington State College in Pullman for two years before being accepted as a pilot into the Army Air Corps in 1941. Corkrum flew in the Pacific theatre during World War II and was highly decorated, earning the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal. He was discharged in 1947 having attained the rank of lieutenant colonel.
Corkrum owned and operated one of the largest wheat and green pea operations in Walla Walla County. He was an early innovator and entrepreneur, creating Ag-Data Inc., a local computer company, in the early 1960s. Corkrum died in 2007.
Jeannette Hayner was born in 1919 in Portland, Oregon. She attended Jefferson High School and the University of Oregon Law School. She married Herman Hayner in 1942, and the couple moved to Walla Walla in 1947. She was elected to the state house of representatives in 1972, and elected state senator in 1976. During her career, she served as minority whip and majority leader. Jeannette Hayner died in 2010 in Walla Walla.
In 1992, senator Hayner was nominated for an honorary doctorate from Whitman College. Opposition soon surfaced on campus. The main point of dissent was her history of voting against protections for LGBTQ Washingtonians, migrant workers, and her opposition to hate crimes legislation. A campus group, Students Organized to Protest Honoring Hayner, was formed in opposition. The Associated Students of Whitman College (ASWC) elections committee conducted a survey of Whitman students, which found that 71.4% (of 435 students) opposed Hayner being honored. A student and faculty protest marched through downtown Walla Walla. Finally, a small, quiet protest was also held during commencement. Some ceremony attendees wore pink ribbons to signify their protest.
The Dean of Students is responsible for guiding student life, and serves as the Vice President of Student Affairs. They mentor, advocate, and advise individual students, as well as student groups. The Dean of Students reports to the President of the college.
The Dean of Students was established around 1965. The role of the new dean was to more efficiently and effectively guide and govern student affairs and student services, duties which had previously been shared by a board of deans. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, after years of student advocacy, Dean of Students Gordon Scribner coordinated the liberalization of many rules and social regulations governing student life. When Scribner transitioned to Director of Alumni Affairs in 1978, the Office of Student Affairs went through a massive restructuring, incorporating into the office of the Dean of Students. At this time, the Dean of Students' duties included "the supervision, direction, and coordination of student services, including the food service, the Student Center, financial advising, career planning and placement, residential life, student activities, personal counseling, and health services." The Dean of Students would also serve as chair of the Council on Student Affairs.
Chronology of the position:
Robert Whitner (circa 1965-1967)
Gordon Scriber (1967-1978)
Russell DeRemer (1978-1994)
Chuck Cleveland (1994-2017)
Kazi Joshua (2017-)
Dorsey Franklin (D. F.) Baker was born to Edwin Franklin Baker and Sarah Anne Miller Baker on August 23, 1880 in Walla Walla, Washington, and named for his paternal grandfather, Dorsey Syng Baker. One of seven children, he spent his childhood in Walla Walla and Southern California, specifically Pasadena and Ojai. The family returned to Walla Walla in the 1890s when Edwin went into business with his brothers. Dorsey returned to Southern California to attend Pomona College, from which he graduated cum laude with a legum baccalaureus degree in 1901. He then attended Harvard Law school and graduated in 1905. He married Edna Lucille Moore in Moscow, Idaho on May 8, 1907, and the couple moved to Walla Walla. They bore children Charles Franklin, Edna B., Edwin M., Marion, and Sarah Lucille between 1909 and 1922. According to the 1910 census, Baker was a banker for the family bank, Baker-Boyer National bank. By 1920 he was listed as an agent for the family Farm Loan Company, where he presumably spent the remainder of his career. He was also an active member of the Whitman College Board of Trustees, and was responsible for many of their financial records during his tenure. He died on December 15, 1961 at the age of 81.
Susannah Applegate was the grand-niece of Jesse Applegate, an early Oregon pioneer. Jesse Applegate led an expedition to create a southern route to the Willamette Valley, providing an easier and safer journey. The new trail was known as the Southern Immigrant Route, the Scott-Applegate Trail, and the Applegate Trail. It became an alternative to the Oregon Trail.
Born March 4, 1923 in Berlin, N.H., Mr. Gendron served in the U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II. He moved to Portland, OR after the war and was a salesman and manager for several companies. He married Alicia Frances Niebergall, a native of Walla Walla whom he met while stationed at Walla Walla Air Base, in 1945. He died June 19, 2001.
Walter Houser Brattain was born on Feb. 10th, 1902 in Amoy, China. He was the son of Ross R. Brattain and Ottilie Houser, the oldest of their five children. Two of his sisters died very young; he spent his childhood in Washington State with his third sister, Mari Brattain, and his brother, R. Robert Brattain. The Brattain family had many Whitman College connections: Ross and Ottilie met at Whitman and Ross graduated from the college in 1901. Walter graduated from Whitman in 1924 with majors in Physics and Math under Professors Benjamin H. Brown (Physics) and Walter A. Bratton (Math).
There were three other physicists of note who graduated in Walter Brattain's class: Walker Bleakney, E.J. Workman, and Vladimir B. Rojansky, with whom he collaborated over the years. The four of them were known as Whitman's "Four Horsemen of Physics." While a Whitman student, Brattain was passionate about math, an excellent tennis player and member of the Kirkman Club, a fraternal group.
After receiving his Bachelor of Science degree from Whitman, Brattain was awarded a Masters of Arts by the University of Oregon in 1926 and a Doctorate of Philosophy by the University of Minnesota in 1929. After completing his graduate studies, Brattain worked for the radio section of the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, D.C., from 1927 to 1928. In 1929 he joined the technical staff of Bell Telephone Laboratories and worked as a research physicist until his retirement in 1976. During World War II, he was associated for 22 months with the National Defense Research Committee at Columbia University, working on magnetic detection of submarines. Brattain was a visiting lecturer at Harvard University during the fall of 1952 and a visiting lecturer at Whitman College between 1962 and 1963, becoming a visiting professor between 1963 and 1972 and an adjunct professor from 1972 until 1976. He remained afterwards as a consultant at Whitman.
Brattain was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1956, with Dr. John Bardeen and Dr. William B. Shockley, "for research on semiconductors and the discovery of the transistor effect." These three American physicists invented the transistor on December 23, 1947, at the American Telephone and Telegraph Company at Bell Laboratories. The transistor's name derives from the descriptive phrase "transfer of signal through varsitor." The transistor is a solid state device involved in connecting battery power to signal power. As a key element in amplifying small electrical signals and in processing of digital information, it is today an active component in all electronic systems. Brattain received honorary Doctor of Science degrees from Portland University in 1952, from Whitman College and Union College in 1955, and from the University of Minnesota in 1957. In 1952 he was awarded the Stuart Ballantine Medal of the Franklin Institute, and in 1954 the John Scott Medal. The degree at Union College and the two medals were received jointly with Dr. John Bardeen, in recognition of their work on the transistor. In 1974, he was named to the National Inventors Hall of Fame.
Brattain was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the Franklin Institute, a Fellow of the American Physical Society, and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He was also a member of the commission on semiconductors of the International Union of Pure and Applied Physics and of the Naval Research Advisory Committee. At Whitman, he was nominated to membership in Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi. He also served as an Overseer for the college.
The chief field of Brattain's research was the surface properties of solids, as well as research directed at (1) thermionic emission and absorbed layers on tungsten, phospholipids bylayers or membranes rectification and (2) photo effects at semiconductor surfaces (ergo, cuprous oxide, silicon and germanium). Among his contributions are the discoveries of photo effect at the free surface of a semiconductor, the invention of the point-contact transistor jointly with Dr. John Bardeen, and shared research on piezoelectric frequency standards, magnetometers, blood clotting, and infrared detectors.
Walter Brattain married Dr. Keren Gilmore (chemist) in 1935 and had a son, William G. Brattain, in April, 1943. Keren died in April 1957. In May, 1958, he married Mrs. Emma Jane (Kirsch) Miller, a Whitman College alumna. He had three stepchildren and 10 grandchildren. Walter Brattain died on October 13, 1987, in Seattle, Washington, of Alzheimer's disease.
Walter Crosby Eells was born near Union, Mason County, Washington on March 6, 1886. Eells attended Whitman College, which was founded by his grandfather, Cushing Eells. There he received a Bachelor of Arts, magna cum laude, in Mathematics and Greek (1908) and served as the Editor-in-Chief of the Pioneer. In 1911, Eells received a Master of Arts in Mathematics from the University of Chicago. Between 1911 and 1914 he held teaching posts at Whitworth College, the United States Naval Academy, and Harvard University Engineering Camp. Eells returned to Whitman College in 1916 as Professor in Applied Mathematics (1916-1926) and Education and Educational Statistics (1926-1927). W. C. Eells served as secretary of the Whitman College Alumni Association and editor of the Whitman Alumnus from 1916-1927.
Eells received a Ph.D. in Education from Stanford University in 1927 and served as Professor of Education at Stanford from 1927-1938. He was active in American higher education throughout the 1930s and 1940s. He served as the Executive Secretary of the American Association of Junior Colleges and the Secretary of the American Association of Research Colleges. He was also the coordinator of the "Evaluation of Secondary Schools; General Report on the Methods, Activities, and Results" by the Cooperative Study of Secondary School Standards, published in 1939.
In the 1945, Eells became Chief of the Foreign Education Division of the Veterans Administration. In 1947, he moved to the War Department to serve as Advisor on Higher Education in the Civil Information and Education Section at General Headquarters for the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. Eells and other, members of the Civil Information and Education Section worked in Japan through 1951 to establish the post-war Japanese higher education system. Of particular interest to Eells was the suppression of Communist influences and sentiment in Japanese Universities.
W. C. Eells was a prolific writer, frequently publishing on mathematics, education, higher education, women in education, and education in Japan and Communist countries in the wake of World War II. He died in Washington, D.C. on December 15, 1962.
The St. Paul Mission Historical Society was founded in 1976, in St. Paul, Oregon. Its goal was to preserve historic homes in the French Prairie area. Founding board members included Helen Austin, Catherine Zorn and Joe McKay. Founding President Joe McKay devoted over 22 years to the preservation of museums and artifacts.
Clarence E. Neumeier was born on October 8, 1907 in Gladbrooke, Iowa to Louis and Ida Neumeier. He graduated from Whitman College in 1929 and went to work for the government in Washington D.C. He returned to Walla Walla in 1948, where he was eployed as an economist at the Corps of Army Engineers until he retired in 1966. He married Mary Katherine Gurly on March 28, 1942. Neumeier died on October 17, 1980.
Arthur Henderson Smith, born on July 18, 1845, was a missionary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. He spent 54 years as a missionary in China, and documented much of the culture he encountered in books for foreign readers. He served in the Civil War, graduated from Beloit College in Beloit, Wisconsin in 1867, and became ordained into the Congregational ministry. He and his wife moved to China in 1872, where they lived in Pangjiazhuang, Shandong. He died in 1932 at the age of 87.
Lisa Uddin was born on June 5, 1974 in Toronto, Ontario. She earned a Bachelor's degree in North American Studies from McGill University, a Master's degree in media Studies from Concordia University (Montreal), and a Master's and Ph.D. in Visual and Cultural Studies from the University of Rochester. Before moving to Walla Walla, she held research fellowships at the Smithsonian Institution, Brown University, the University of Minnesota, and taught at the Corcoran College of Art and Design in Washington D.C. She began working as a professor of Art History and Visual Culture Studies at Whitman College in 2012.
The First National Bank of Walla Walla was founded in 1878 by Levi Ankeny. Ankeny was born in St. Joseph, Missouri and migrated to Oregon at the age of six. He conducted business throughout the Pacific Northwest and ultimately settled in Walla Walla to pursue banking. Before the purchase and charter for National Bank status, the bank was known as the Reynolds Banking House. The Reynolds Banking House was formed by the partnership of Almos H. Reynolds and Dr. J.H. Day.
William Dement Church was born on June 3, 1873 in Oregon City, Oregon Territory. He moved to Walla Walla, Washington in 1890 to become an accountant for his uncle's grain mill. On November 23, 1898, he married Bertha Ballou, born April 18, 1874 in Santa Rosa, California, with whom he had six children. In approximately 1903, he was put in charge of mining operations at the Tom Thumb mine, as well as the grain mill's head secretary. He died July 23, 1969, at the age of 96.
Gladys Fay Benge was a Whitman College student from Heppner, Oregon. During her time at Whitman she was a member of the Theta Chi Theta sorority, the Drama Club, the Pioneer staff and an intramural basketball team. She graduated in 1928 with a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry.
The first Chinese to immigrate to Walla Walla arrived in 1872 and were manual laborers constructing the Dorsey S. Baker railroad which ran from Wallula to Walla Walla. The Chinese settlement in Walla Walla grew to upwards of five thousand Chinese living in what was referred to as "Chinatown" located on Second Avenue between Main Street and Alder Street. The population decreased significantly after the completion of the railroad. However, a strong Chinese community remained and many new Chinese moved into the valley from Canton, modern day Guangzhou, to become gardeners and farm laborers. An organized group of vegetable gardens and dwellings were located in what was known as the "bottomlands" on Dalles Military Road and the land was farmed by an estimated eighty Chinese. At this time, the center of activity for the Chinese shifted as a two story brick building was constructed at Fifth Avenue and Rose Street. This building was used as a community building for the local Chinese population and contained as many as seven stores including a grocery, department and traditional artwork stores. There were a total of eleven Chinese owned businesses in Walla Walla in the early 1900s and they included restaurants and grocery stores. It was also common for many Chinese to be cooks for local families.
Tragedy struck the Chinese community and the collection includes information about the Chinese massacre of 1887 on the Snake River in which an undetermined number of Chinese miners were killed, between ten and thirty-one, at the hands of seven white men from Wallowa County. Additionally, there are newspaper articles which describe a fire in a Chinese hotel during the New Year's festivities that took the lives of eleven Chinese people. Other information includes several accounts of murder and the report of the first hanging in the Walla Walla Valley: a Chinese man.
Chinese New Year, in Walla Walla, was a memorable event as reported in newspapers, written accounts, and tape recordings which highlight the traditional Chinese ceremonies and rituals for the New Year celebration.
The newspaper articles within this collection aid in providing a partial timeline with regard to the fluctuation of the Chinese population. The height of the population, at nearly five thousand, in the 1870s to 1880s, diminishes to an estimate of fifty in the 1950s.
The Edith Smith Collection, ranging from 1889 to 1953, is from the estate of Edith Smith, Whitman alumna, class of 1914. It houses photographs of Smith's college days, her students and the 1925 Native American Congress. It also consists of Whitman college memorabilia, personal papers, correspondence and a scrapbook.
The history of the Walla Walla Balloon Stampede and Ginger Kelly's ballooning career both began in September of 1972, when Chauncey Dun and his all female balloon crew flew for a demonstration at the Whitman College homecoming weekend at the request of alumni director, Jack Riehl. This event caught the attention of several Walla Walla Valley locals, including Nat Vale and Ginger Kelly of Prescott, Washington. The two began taking ballooning lessons and were certified as commercial balloon pilots in February 1974. They purchased their first balloon, Demeter, in March of that year, and flew her in the Expo '74 World's Fair in Spokane that May. The first Balloon Federation Association sanctioned balloon race in the Pacific Northwest occurred on the grounds of Walla Walla High School in May 1976. It was organized by Nat and Ginger, and their friend Bill Loyd. In 1977, Ginger placed 3rd in the first all female race during the First National Balloon Federation of America FA Balloon Races in Reno, Nevada. Ginger Kelly continued to be involved in ballooning events across the Pacific Northwest, and in 1994 she was named the Walla Walla Balloon Stampede volunteer of the year. In 1999 she served as the Honorary Balloonmeister for the Walla Walla Balloon Stampede, and in 2004 she was presented with a Balloon Federation of America award for outstanding service to the history of ballooning. The Walla Walla Balloon Stampede has continued to hold a valued position as an annual community and regional event, and in 1990 the site moved from Walla Walla High School to its current location at Howard Tietan Park.
A Whitman College Athletics Association formed in 1886, due in part to a desire of students to participate in baseball. The first football team was formed in 1892. Women's basketball was being played as early as 1897, and tennis was a popular early activity. The arrival in 1906 of Raymond Vincent Borleske was a seminal moment in the development of Whitman athletic programs. Borleske was considered the greatest football running back in the West during his playing days. Borleske graduated in 1910 and returned in 1915 to teach and coach, becoming the dominant figure in Whitman athletics until 1947.
Whitman College was one of the original members of the Pacific Northwest Intercollegiate Athletic Conference (PNIAC), which, at the time of its conception in 1910, contained schools such as the University of Washington, University of Oregon, and Washington State College, later Washington State University. In later years, most of the larger schools withdrew, leaving Whitman, College of Puget Sound, Linfield College, and Pacific University, all of which belong to the present-day Northwest Conference. Willamette University, Pacific Lutheran University, George Fox College, Lewis and Clark College and Whitworth University have since joined the conference, leaving its present membership at nine institutions.
Whitman dropped football in 1977, but still competes in intercollegiate cross country, tennis, volleyball, swimming, golf, basketball, and baseball, as well as maintaining an active intramural program. Nationally, Whitman was originally a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) and is currently a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division III.
The Walla Walla County Conservation District (WWCD) was established in 1961. The WWCCD obtains grants to help landowners implement conservation practices that protect natural resources. They offer financial help and professional advice to irrigators to help reduce erosion, protect fish, and improve water, and soil quality.
Tau Kappa Epsilon is an international Greek Letter fraternity that was established at Illinois Wesleyan University in 1899. The Whitman College Chapter, known as Alpha Eta, was chartered from local fraternity, Alpha Omicron Kappa in 1930. Alpha Omicron Kappa had existed since 1925 and was intended to be made into a chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon (the fraternity Whitman president Stephen B. Penrose once belonged to), but was deemed too small. Tau Kappa Epsilon, which was rapidly expanding at the time, was happy to absorb the organization.
Lester Randall Armstrong was born on July 30, 1894 in Farnhamville, Iowa. He moved to Walla Walla in 1900 with his mother and two siblings, after his father died. During World War I, he served with the 1st Division at Fort Lewis.
Armstrong married Myrtle Zimmerman in 1926, and operated a sign business in town for 14 years. He also worked at the McCaw General Hospital during World War Two. When the war ended, Armstrong opened up a photography business, Armstrong Photos, out of his house, which he operated until 1951. Then, he worked as a photographer for the Walla Walla Office of the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Lester Armstrong died on May 2, 1955.
Mary Carr Moore was born on August 6, 1873 in Memphis Tennessee. She studied music in San Francisco and began teaching and composing in 1889. In 1894 she was the lead in an operetta, "The Oracle." After moving to Seattle in 1901, Moore wrote a four-act grand opera titled "The Cost of Empire." In 1926, she moved to Los Angeles and taught at Chapman College and Ola Steeb Piano School. Moore died on January 9, 1957.
The Walla Walla Bulletin began publishing as a daily newspaper in Walla Walla, Washington in 1906. Four year later in 1910, John G. Kelly purchased the Bulletin and remained its publisher for 45 years. Kelly purchased the Walla Walla Morning Union in 1934. The Bulletin and the Union continued to be separate operations for a time, only publishing joint Union-Bulletin issues on Sundays beginning on May 27, 1934. On January 16, 1938 the first daily issue of the Walla Walla Union-Bulletin was published. In October 1971, the Seattle Times Company purchased the Union-Bulletin.
Ben Flathers and Lloyd Rittenhouse were contemporaries and friends at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, both graduating circa 1936. They were members of social fraternity Beta Theta Pi, and played for the Whitman College football team.
The Whitman College and Northwest Archives has maintained a vertical file since at least the 1960s. From the beginning, the purpose of the vertical file was to arrange and store small files on a topic, often including memorabilia and ephemeral material, pertaining to Walla Walla. For the most part, the vertical file contains only printed items. Manuscript material and other unique items were, generally, not placed in the vertical file. Some of the materials in the vertical file include: newspaper clippings, press releases, programs, speeches, reprints, and obituaries. Since the early 2000s, material has not been regularly added to the collection, but staff do occasionally add small additions.
John F. Hook was born August 17, 1920 in Spokane, Washington and grew up with his parents and three siblings in Valleyford, Washington. His father was a railroad conductor on a Milwaukee Road route between Coeur D'Alene, Idaho and Metaline Falls, Washington. After attending Whitworth College for two years, John earned his bachelor's degree in mathematics at the University of Washington and a master's degree in actuarial science at the University of Iowa. He went on to spend 30 years working as an actuary with Standard Insurance Company in Portland, Oregon. John married Laura Rodgers in 1948 in Portland. They had two children, Esther Louise and Joseph Rodgers Hook. In 1982 John retired from Standard Insurance Company and moved with Laura to Sequim, Washington, where he lived until his death on October 1, 1999.
John, Laura and their children were hikers, backpackers, skiers, and sailors. John took many pictures of their activities, travel, family and friends. During the 1970s, John became more interested in photography and began to print some of his own work at a commercial lab in Portland. During these years photography was an integral part of his life. He eventually switched from prints to slides, and compiled one Kodak carousel for each calendar year with additional carousels for special trips. Many pictures in the collection reflect John's interest in railroads and antique railroad equipment, in particular the Milwaukee Road in the Northwest.
The Whitman College Press was a letterpress printing press established in 1977 to produce small run, hand-printed editions of historical items from the College's Northwest Collection and archives. The press equipment was donated to Whitman College in February, 1977 by Frank McCaffrey, the owner and operator of the Dogwood Press, a private press based in Seattle, Washington. From 1977 until 1985, the press was operated by S. Eugene Thompson, the then director of the Publications Department at Whitman College. In 1987 the press equipment was transferred to the art department as the Whitman Book Arts Press where it has been utilized by faculty and visiting artists in classes and their own work. Between 1994 and 2003 the press was utilized in summer book arts workshops held at Whitman College.
Under Eugene Thompson the press produced primarily small pieces for the Whitman College Communications Department. The largest project undertaken during Thompson's tenure was the "Eaton Letter," a reproduction of a letter written in 1892 by the second president of Whitman College to his former students in North Adams, Massachusetts as he left to take up his position in Walla Walla. Working with Whitman students, a small book entitled "A Whitman Alphabet" was also produced during this time. In the fall of 1994, a printing of Seven Mourning Songs I Have Yet to Learn to Play on My Cedar Flute by Sherman Alexie was produced on the press. In the Summer 1995, a translation by Professor Jonathan Walters of a Tibetan Palmleaf Manuscript was produced on the press by Barbara Tentenbaum.
Marjorie Douglas Rowe was born in 1912 to Herbert L. Douglas and Mary M. Douglas in Brooklyn, New York. At some point between Rowe's birth and her seventh birthday the family moved west and settled in Spokane, Washington, where she would live for most of her life. She attended Whitman College from 1929-1933, where she was involved with the Delta Delta Delta Sorority.
After graduating from Whitman College, she moved on to obtain a master's degree in social administration from Case Western Reserve University of Cleveland, Ohio in 1936, and remained in Cleveland to work through the 1940s. By 1962 she had moved back to Spokane and worked as a supervisor of psychiatric social work at Eastern State Hospital, and later as the superintendent at Interlake School from which she retired in 1982.
Rowe was an active member and served as president of Chapter R of the PEO, as well as being a member of the American Association of University Women, Spokane Women of Rotary, American Association for Mental Deficiency, Phi Beta Kappa and Delta Sigma Rho. She married Richard R. Rowe in Ohio in 1937 and the two had one child together, Richard Rowe Jr. of Spirit Lake, Idaho.
The Round Table Club was an invitational men's club, founded in 1916 in Walla Walla, Washington. The meetings took place on the second Wednesday of each month from October to June with the intention of discussing social and intellectual matters. Each meeting was hosted at a different location.
Columbia Reproductions was a photography company in Walla Walla, Washington. They also made topographic maps of Washington State. It was founded in 1948 by Dick Torrey who owned and operated the company until his retirement in 1983. The company changed its name to Columbia Maps and Teaching Supplies in 1987, but went out of business before the end of the year.
The National Youth Administration (NYA) was a New Deal agency sponsored by Franklin Roosevelt that focused on providing work and education for Americans between the ages of 16 and 25. Founded on June 26, 1935, the NYA helped over 4.5 million Americans nationally find employment, receive vocational training, and achieve higher standards of education. The Walla Walla, Washington bureau of the National Youth Administration, played a role in Walla Walla's recovery from the Great Depression.
Chief Joseph Dam was constructed from 1950 through 1958, with additional turbines being installed between 1973 and 1979. It is a concrete gravity dam on the Columbia River, and is operated by the United States Army Corps of Engineers Chief Joseph Dam Project Office, with the electricity it produces being marketed by Bonneville Power Administration. It generates around 10,000 gigawatt-hours annually. The dam is named for the Nez Perce chief who spent his last years in exile on the Colville Indian Reservation.
The Kenneth E. Schilling Papers include phonograph and reel-to-reel recordings of Whitman College musical performances by the choir and orchestra, and performances with the Walla Walla Symphony.
Also included in the collection are classroom lecture notes, subject files, concert programs and photographs.
The collection consists of articles, publications, records, memorabilia, correspondence, membership lists, and photographs related to the Whitman Chapter of Alpha Chi Omega.
The collection, which consists of Elaine Frank Davison's research files and publications, is divided into six series: Sound Recordings, Publications by Elaine Davison, Genealogical Research, Correspondence, Obituaries, and Miscellaneous. It is a rich source of information for both genealogists and researchers interested in the immigration and ethnic history of Eastern Washington.
The Sound Recording Series consists of 262 cassette tapes of interviews and lectures relating to Davison's research on Germans from Russia. An inventory of the Sound Recordings Series is available in Box 1 of the collection.
The Publications by Elaine Davison Series includes eight volumes of Unsere Leute von Kautz, a compilation of photocopies marriage license returns for Germans from Russia in Walla Walla County, 1891-1912, and the text of a speech delivered in 1998.
The Genealogical Research Series contains research files on specific families in Washington and Montana, publications (most issued by various historical societies), and reprinted censuses from various German colonies in the Volga region. Many of the materials about the Rempel family were written by Arthur B. Rempel, a member of Whitman College faculty from 1938-1975.
The Correspondence Series contains letters in English, Russian, and German exchanged among Elaine Frank Davison and various family members. Many of the letters in German and Russian are translated.
The Obituaries Series consist primarily of photocopies of newspaper obituaries of Volga Germans from Russia who resided in Walla Walla, Washington; Yakima, Washington; Laurel, Montana; and Billings, Montana.
Miscellaneous items in the collection include photographs and a photo album, maps of Russia, and a clipping file.
This collection consists of Whitman College Trustee materials and correspondence, Whitman College information, personal correspondence, photographs, albums, certificates and awards of Donald Sherwood who served on the Board of Trustees from 1954 to 1972. The story of Sherwood and Roberts, and information from the real estate and financial services company he founded, are also part of the collection.
Legal writings, papers delivered on the development of the Columbia River, Pacific Northwest History Conference papers and materials from his 1942 Congressional campaign are included in the materials of Cameron Sherwood. Correspondence and materials from his tenure as a Whitman College Overseer and as a Class Agent are also included.
The Caroline Ferrell Papers, which date from circa 1864, consists of an essay entitled "A Woman's Experience in Crossing the Plains" written by Caroline Ferrell, who settled in the Walla Walla area after crossing the continent in 1864.
The John F. Boyer Family Papers houses personal material of the Boyer family. This collection, which dates from 1879 to 1906, consists of correspondence, personal bank records, college catalogs and programs, club membership materials, photographs, deeds, and receipts of John F. Boyer and members of his family.
This collection provides information about the Kiwanis Club of Walla Walla's organization, membership, and activities in the community. The club's social and service activities are best documented in the Meeting Minutes, Activities and Events, Camp Kiwanis, and Publications series, while the Financial Records and Organizational Information series provide information about the club's finances, internal organization, and membership. Manuscripts concerning the history of the club can be found in the Organizational Information and Vance Orchard Papers series.
This series consists of records documenting the meetings of the Walla Walla Kiwanis Club. Meeting minutes pertain to the regular weekly meetings of the club membership; activities included musical programs, committee reports, and Camp Kiwanis projects. Board minutes document the board meetings of the club; typical business of the board included treasurers' reports, fundraising projects, planning for upcoming activities, and deliberation on new members. Meeting sheets record the date and location of meetings, as well as information about the program, guests, and expenses.
This series contains various financial records of the club, including budgets, receipts, banking records, and bills. Records are not continuous, since it appears that recordkeeping activity was carried out by a number of individuals at different times.
These records document the membership, structure, and affiliations of the Walla Walla Kiwanis Club.
This series consists of records pertaining to the various activities and fundraising efforts of the club, as well as special events such as anniversary celebrations. Files typically include materials such as correspondence, receipts, and accounting information.
This series is comprised of information relating to the creation and maintenance of Camp Kiwanis, including legal documents, financial records, and correspondence.
This series contains publications of the Walla Walla Kiwanis Club, beginning with a bi-monthly bulletin known as the "K' Builder" from 1975 to 1989, then as "K-Lines" from 1989 to 1990. In 1992 the club's monthly newsletter was called "Oikos" (A Greek word meaning "to build"). These one-to-two-page publications informed members of subjects such as club activities, elections, new members, and upcoming events.
This series includes club correspondence, certificates, interclub activities, a songbook, and a small number of photographs.
These papers belonged to a longtime member and historian of the club. They contain writings and notes on the history of the club, as well as a few newspaper clippings. Researchers should note that the second folder contains three floppy discs: two 3.5 inch and one 5.25 inch format.
The collection consists of records of history of installation at Whitman, and other chapters' handbooks.
The Sidonie Louise Pyle Scrapbook contains photographs depicting campus life at Whitman College from 1918 to 1922. The collection also includes a binder with negative reproductions of the original photographs.
The Pacific University Collection consists of the 1894 annual "The Heart of Oak," postcards, and a 1859 handwritten bill to establish an institution of learning in Washington County. This collection, which dates from 1859 through 1979, also contains treasurer's reports, sketches of the lives of alumni edited by alumnus and trustee Myron Eells, and a list of contributors for the purchase of land. Also included is biographical information for Tualatin Academy and Pacific University alumni, as well as correspondence and newspaper clippings.
The Myron Eells Collection contains articles, books, and manuscripts. This collection, which dates from 1848 through 1998, also consists of correspondence, speeches and sermons. There is also a series of six scrapbooks, "The Indians of Puget Sound," which contain drawings, photographs and detailed descriptions of Eells' version of the life and culture of those with whom he worked and lived. This collection also includes travel journals, census reports, books and pamphlets in Pacific Northwest Indian languages, and the Eells family Bible.
The collection consists of correspondence, speeches, newspaper clippings and photographs, course outlines and class materials, travel itineraries and reports, inauguration materials and certificates of congratulations, daily planners and event programs. materials also include the correspondence, campus social occasion planning notebooks, newspaper articles, and speeches of his wife, Nadine Skotheim.
The Ada Kidwell Scrapbook contains newspaper clippings from the "Walla Walla Union-Bulletin." The clippings are sorted into sections of State, National, International, Civic Affairs, and Dinner Meetings. The scrapbook materials date from 1970 to 1981.
The John Prentice Allen Papers includes correspondence between John and his parents and friends, and material describing travel and entertainment experiences. This collection, which dates from 1930 through 1979, also holds records of his career in library administration, genealogical materials relating to his family, and Japanese language materials relating to his service in the U.S. Navy during World War II.
The majority of this series is correspondence between Allen and his parents, Rudolph and Anna.
Includes two letters Allen wrote to his parents in 1934
Materials relating to John Allen's educational career, including high school and college yearbooks and a draft of his master thesis from the University of Washington. Records from his library career at Central Washington State and Washington State Universities are included.
Travel brochures, concert programs, events, scrapbooks of travel
United States map.
Some material included in this series is foreign language material relating to Allen's work in the military translating Japanese.
The collection consists of scrapbooks, correspondence, membership rosters, advisor handbooks and chapter manuals, dance cards, event programs and copies of "The Mortar Board Quarterly". A written history of the Whitman College chapter along with newspaper clippings, a freshman honor roll scroll, gavel, music and mortar board from this honor society that began on the Whitman campus as a women's organization, became co-educational and dissolved, in 1985 to become the Order of Waiilatpu, are also included.
The William P. Winan Collection, which dates from 1915 to 1937, consists of newspaper clippings related to William P. Winans and his life story. Also included is a typed history on Stevens County, Washington written by Winans.
The collection consists of a three part newspaper article about Esther M. Lockhart's trip west to Oregon in 1851.
The William M. Nuttall Journals contain journals owned by William M. Nuttall. These journals, which date from 1904 through 1923, depict activities that present a vivid picture of life in Walla Walla, Washington during the early years of the 20th century. They reflect the many changes over the years, such as advances in farm machinery, the arrival of the automobile, telephone, indoor plumbing, flying machine, and other developments.
The first half contains a day-to-day weather long. The second half, same time period, is more of a diary. Besides working on the family farm, he hired out by the day for various farm jobs. During this period, 1904-1906, he kept a detailed, itemized expense journal.
Similar to Journal One. Diary resumes on page 151.
Weather data is now included in daily journal entries. Entries include information about friends serving in World War I, the Armistice, and the influenza epidemic. The entry for September 18, 1923 was the last, and it apparently coincided with his move from Walla Walla to Whittier, California.
Lists of expenditures and bills receivable between 1904-1918
Expenses and receipts from January 1910 to March 1922.
The Whitman College Vertical Files collection contains subject files organized alphabetically by topic, department, or individual. Materials within include fliers, brochures, posters, publications, informational packets, reports, and biographical information on Whitman College, alumni, staff, faculty, departments, and general history.
The Hattie Gordon papers, which date from 1922 to 1926, contain photographs of people, newspaper clippings, and a scrapbook page, documenting her time as a student at Whitman College.
The Walla Walla Valley Pioneer and Historical Society records contains meeting minutes, memoranda, and business and financial documents. These records, which date from 1966 through 1998, also contain correspondence, newspaper clippings, and membership lists. The collection also includes a grant proposal for the National Endowment for the Humanities, as well as brochures and other publicity materials from the Fort Walla Walla Museum.
The Cecil P. "Bud" Compau Collection consists of a photograph album, "Places and Faces," that contains images of the 1918 harvest, camping at Lewis Peak, scenes along the Columbia River, a visit to Seaside, Oregon and photographs of Touchet, Washington school groups. This collection, which dates from 1900 to 1983, also contains a copy of his obituary and an article describing his banking career, in Spokane, Washington.
The William Tugman Papers contain legal briefs, court documents, and financial documents. These papers, which date from 1956 through 1978, also consist of newspaper articles, personal notes, and other research for his cases.
The A. Kyger Ledger contains the financial ledger of A. Kyger. The ledger dates from 1869 to 1870.
The Whitman College Archives Northwest People Vertical Files collection contains subject files organized alphabetically by topic. Materials within include fliers, brochures, posters, publications, newspaper clippings, informational packets, reports, and biographical information on people from the Walla Walla Valley and the Northwest.
The Tom Rice Collection houses E.T. "Tom" Rice's photographs and notebooks. The collection includes pictures of people in Walla Walla from circa 1932-1969.
The Jones Family Papers consist of Frank Lowden Jones and Bonnie Jean Jaycox Jones' photographs, sketches, and insurance papers. The collection, which dates from 1909 through 1988, also contains financial records, postcards, awards, and correspondence.
The Starrett's Seed Company Records houses the business records of George Starrett of Starrett's Seed Company. The collection, which dates from 1863 to 1955, consists of George Starrett's 1863 to 1874 ledger book and seven seed catalogs published between 1884 and 1955, evidencing the financial records of the family and the first year of the business, as well as their wares from 1884 and 1955.
This collection consists of the writings of Reverend Atkinson which include "The American Colonist in Oregon," "The First Day Sabbath-Its Law" and "Fruit of the Oregon Mission." Also included are a biography of his life written by the Reverend M. Eells titled, "Sketch of the Life of Rev. George H. Atkinson, D.D." and a book, "In Memoriam Reverend George Henry Atkinson."
The collection consists of minutes, yearbooks, financial and membership records, correspondence, photographs, a scrapbook, newspaper clippings, presentations and notes from this women's organization located in Walla Walla, Washington.
The John McLoughlin Letters, which date from 1834 through 1846, consists of letters from John McLoughlin to Edwards Ermatinger during the years.
The James Sneddon Negatives contains negatives taken on and around the campus of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington. This collection, which dates from 1961 to 1966, consists of shots of students, faculty, events, and buildings
The Bald Eagle Club Collection includes a letter from President Dwight D. Eisenhower, a photograph of several group members, and a certified chapter roster, all dating from circa 1954.
The Frank Lloyd Wright Collection spans from 1901 through 1964. It consists of magazines, newspaper clippings, and photocopies of published materials relating to Frank Lloyd Wright, as well as information about the Frank Lloyd Wright House located in Walla Walla, Washington.
The J.R. Cummins and Family Papers contain photographs, a hole-in-one trophy for Wayne Collier, and dance cards and invites. These papers, which date from 1914 through 1976, also contain yearbooks, WSU publications, and county sheriff certificates. There are also news clippings, a wedding photograph, a police journal, guest books, life insurance policies for Wayne Collier, checks, letters, and land claim and warranty deeds.
The collection consists of the hotel's registry which contains information about guests' date of arrival, name and residence, assigned room number and time of arrival.
The Walla Walla Pioneer Pageant Collection, spanning from 1922 through 1989, consists of items related to Walla Walla's Pioneer Pageant of 1923 and 1924. This collection houses notes, minutes, and agendas of pageant officials. There is correspondence, financial reports recording the costs and expenses of the pageant, and records of the purchases. The collection also contains memorabilia of the pageant including photographs of the performance, published programs, tickets, and scripts.
The Rich family collection houses the personal and family records of the Rich family. This collection, dating from 1864 to approximately 1972, consists of a bible owned by David Whitman, a scrapbook documenting the boxing career of Henry Rich, photographs of Whitman College campus and the Rich family, and newspaper clippings. This collection mainly documents the Rich family and their involvement in both Whitman College and the Walla Walla area.
The Cornelia Shields Collection of United States Census Materials covers both the 1990 and 2000 U.S. census. Documents include notices of visits, workbooks, questionnaires, buttons, job aid workbooks, enumerator manuals, administrative manuals, interview checklists, and area maps. Census worker Cornelia Shields covered the Dayton, Washington area, and the personal artifacts included in the collection reflect her work in that area.
The Etta Mealey Scrapbooks houses seven scrapbooks created by Etta Mealey. The scrapbooks, dating from the 1940s through the late 1960s, document the local history of Walla Walla, as well as broader state and national news and events.
The Fulton and Isaacs Family Collection, which dates from circa 1862 to 1980, consists of newspaper clippings, photographs, pamphlets, and typed documents about the history of the Fulton and Isaacs pioneer families. The collection also contains a ledger from Isaacs's North Pacific Flour Mill.
The collection consists of correspondence and the minutes of the Board of Directors' meetings of the Wenatchee Farmers Exchange.
The Civilian Conservation Corps Collection houses material related to the Civilian Conservations Corps in Walla Walla, Washington. This collection, which dates from 1934 to 1991, consists of photographs, negatives, newspaper clippings, and the "Lewis-Clark Road Axe," a newsletter published by the Lewiston District in 1935.
The Delphian Culture Club Records, which date from 1915 through 2017, contains meeting minutes, financial documents, and scrapbooks with personal photographs of group members.
The collection consists of general records, publications, news articles, scrapbooks, ledgers, song books and manuals related to Beta Theta Pi.
The collection consists of Sheehan gallery catalogs and announcements, samples of art (especially book arts) from students, samples of book arts from visiting professionals and professors.
The collection contains primarily business correspondence, including fan mail from appreciative listeners. Other business correspondence discusses performance engagements, music selection, and business sponsorship of the Enchanters Quartet's radio show. Snapshots, publicity photographs, and newspaper clippings complete the collection.
The Blue Mountain Racing Association Schedule and Rules consists of correspondence from the secretary that describes the horse-racing schedule, and the ground rules. This collection, which dates from 1908 to 1955, also includes meeting notes from an annual meeting held in December 1955.
The collection consists of clippings, transparencies, and correspondence about the flag carried by William C. Painter and members of the Oregon Volunteers during the Yakima war of 1855.
This collection contains the secretary of the Walla Walla Presidents' Council of Federated Women's Clubs recorded the minutes of monthly meetings in the minute books. Book 1 contains the minutes of monthly meetings from 1929-1939, and book 2 contains 1939-1952. Newspaper clippings describing the council's activities, dinners, and guest speakers are interspersed among the minutes. Also included are summaries of the work done by the group and membership lists. Book 2 contains a roll call noting the members' names.
The collection of Stanley R. Plummer includes assorted musical scores, posters, programs for recitals and other musical performances, notes from lectures to his music classes, and newspaper clippings.
The Maysel Cooper Scrapbook houses a scrapbook assembled by Maysel Cooper. This scrapbook, which dates circa 1908, consists of clippings, photographs and programs. This scrapbook documents student life at Whitman College just after the turn of the 20th century.
This collection holds photographs, newspaper articles, and other research materials Locati used in compiling his work on Walla Walla County's horticultural history, a series of articles on the history of Italian Jesuits in the Northwest, and two scrapbooks containing newspaper clippings regarding horticultural practices in Walla Walla, 1918-1981.
The Robertta Hunt photograph collection houses slides of Walla Walla, Washington, winter scenes around town, and the annual Walla Walla Balloon Stampede, taken between 1962 and 1989.
The Richard Clem Geology Notebooks, which date from 1951 through 1974, contain Richard Clem's notebooks. The notebooks contain lecture notes on geology, physics, chemistry, and evolution.
The collection consists of photographs, time tables, promotional materials, newspaper and magazine clippings, annual reports for the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, passenger tickets, and regional brochures. Represented railroads include the Northern Pacific Railroad, Ilwaco Railroad Company, Walla Walla Valley Railway Company, Washington and Columbia River Railway Company and the Oregon and Washington Territory Railroad and information about the Baldwin Locomotive Works is included.
Information about the Walla Walla and Columbia River Railroad and its founder, Dr. Dorsey Syng Baker, are part of this collection. Included are newspaper clippings, writings about Dr. Baker and correspondence.
The Archaeological Institute of America, Walla Walla Society, Records include minutes, correspondence, program materials, and clippings related to the activities interests of this local group.
The collection consists of records, clippings, and brochures for the Walla Walla Men's Garden Club and the Walla Walla Garden Club. For the Cultus Garden Club and the Evergreen Garden Club, membership information, photographs, and newspaper clippings related to club meetings and social and charitable activities are organized in scrapbooks.
The John A. Fancher Papers, which date from circa 1864, consist of reminiscences of a pioneer settler and farmer in the Medical Lake Area of Spokane County, as told to William Stanley Lewis in 1878.
The David L. Shoemaker Records contains photocopies of two daybooks that belonged to David L. Shoemaker. These photocopies, the originals of which date from 1864 through 1897, document livestock breeding, financial transactions, and pasture and rent records.
The Free and Associated Masons of Walla Walla, Lodge no. 7, Records houses some of the organizational records of the Walla Walla Masons, Lodge no. 7. This collection, which dates from 1867 to 1916, consists of Masonic pamphlets, publications, founding documents, guides, by-laws, and poll books.
The A.S. McClure Diary, the copy of which dates from circa 1989, consists of the diary of A.S. McClure, recording a journey across the plains from May 2, 1853 to October 15, 1853. Also included is a newspaper clipping of an article titled "Naturalist Tracks Down the 'Lost Wagon Train' of 1853."
The Tomlinson Family Papers, which date from 1852 to 1896, contains nine ledgers in which the Tomlinsons logged their records. Each ledger deals with different topics, ranging from business transactions, to mill operations, to day-to-day activities.
The Walla Walla Arts Ephemera Collection contains programs for art shows, theater productions, and musical recitals. Additionally, it has commencement programs for Walla Walla High School, comics, schedules for events, catalogues of paintings, songbooks, newsletters, and promotional materials about the Walla Walla air show. The collection's materials date from 1890 to 1994.
The General Federation of Women's Clubs scrapbook contains pictures of officers and delegates of the General Federation of Women's Clubs and clippings related to their Seattle convention in 1932.
The Anna Farrar Papers contain material related to the life of Anna Farrar, a resident of Denver, Colorado. These papers contain a family bible, photographs, and a high school diploma and high school grade records. These papers, which date from 1879 through 1911, also contain a scene and program for a seventh grade play, an autograph album, and other ephemera of Anna Clough Farrar.
The George B. Marquis papers house the personal papers of George B. Marquis. This collection, which dates from 1863 to 1967, consists of books by Marquis and others, photographs of family members, manuscripts, published articles, a portrait, assorted speeches, correspondence, publications, poetry, a diploma, and newspaper clippings.
The Grova C. Cookerly Scrapbook contains the Grova C. Cookerly scrapbook. The scrapbook includes newspaper clippings about Walla Walla events, politics, and programs, which date from 1940 to 1954.
Materials in the Whitman College Fencing Club records include rank tests, certificates, member notes and posters.
The collection contains official documents, meeting notes, clippings, and formal reports regarding the Walla Walla Drug Abuse Council. Particularly interesting are the organization's financial information and professionally prepared reports. The minutes and proceedings record the history of a local social service agency which begins, following national trends of drug education and policy, and ends in controversy over the capacity of city and county organizations to adequately address drug-abuse problem.
This series includes two scrapbooks containing founding documents, the original 1971 report and assessment on drug-use/abuse, annual reports, meeting minutes, clippings from the Union-Bulletin and other publications, community advertisements, and reports from the New Morning Guild. These scrapbooks are loosely ordered by chronology and original order has been maintained. Also included in this series is a large amount of budget information, including spending records, proposals, and correspondence. Several letters to a law firm are included, along with minutes appearing outside the compiled scrapbook.
In 1974, a group of Whitman College professors led by Lee H. Bowker, Ph.D, secured a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health. They completed a number of studies which were central to controversy within the Drug Abuse Council. These studies were never published and contain general surveys, anthropological studies, and estimates/records the attitude towards drug use in Walla Walla during the early 1970s.
Whitman professor, Lee Bowker, secured a grant with the National Institute of Mental Health in 1972. Though Whitman College was the grantee agency, Bowker intended to work in cooperation with the Walla Walla Drug Abuse Council. This folder contains Bowker's records, grant proposal and communication with Whitman College.
The Carl Penner Collection, which dates from 1989, contains photocopies of writings and newspaper clippings documenting the life, honors, and inventions of Carl Penner.
This collection consists of memoranda, news articles, photographs, memorabilia, scrapbooks, and other records related to the Whitman College chapter of Delta Gamma.
The Purity Market Records houses business records of Purity Market and Grocery. These records, which date from 1918 to 1950, consist of financial records, receipts, and photographs. They also include bank statements, inventories, account logs, and personnel administration records.
The Purdy Cornelison and Anita Blucher Scrapbooks, which spans from approximately 1934 through 1938, consists of two scrapbooks belonging to two Whitman College students, one belonging to [Vernon] Purdy Cornelison and the other to Anita Blucher. The scrapbooks contain letters, and memorabilia from Sigma Chi and Delta Delta Delta, two greek organizations Blucher and Cornelison were a part of. The scrapbooks also contain programs from college concerts, plays, and commencements, newspaper clippings, photographs, telegrams, and other college ephemera. This collection gives insight into what Whitman College was like during this time period, and the organizations and social engagements students participated in.
The Whitman College Employees Association (WCEA) Records houses the organizational records of the WCEA. This collection, which dates from 1975 to 1987, consist of newsletters, correspondence, memoranda, survey data, and information about organized labor, evidencing the activities of the WCEA. This collection provides insight into the working conditions of Whitman College employees during the 1970s and 1980s.
The Penrose Family Papers consists of correspondence, diaries, travel journals, photographs, and biographical and genealogical information. Materials highlight Mary Shipman Penrose's active role on the Whitman College campus and in the Walla Walla community, Maysie and Frances' graduate school experience at Bryn Mawr, and the published writings of Dr. Penrose. The collection dates from 1893 to 2000.
The collection consists of Whitman College In Juarez records and paraphernalia, and Institute of European Studies news articles, memos, letters, minutes, proposals, annual reports, financial statements, and announcements.
This collection contains literary journals, magazines, zines, newspapers and other publications produced by Whitman College students. The publications included in this collection include: Blue Moon, Break Ground, Carbon-14, The Circuit, The Clock Tower, The Codex, Faire, The Genius, Hey Man, Masque, The Narrator, The Sheet, The Whitman College Pioneer, Quarterlife, Queering, The Secession, The Source, Whitman Academic Journal, The Whitman Collegian, Whitman Wire and Yeast.
This series contains issues of the Blue Moon, some financial records of the publication from 1924, and a collaboration issue between Quaterlife and the Blue Moon called Conclu[e]sive from 2012. There is also one undated issue of an experimental off-shoot publication called "Blue Mooner."
This series contains one issue of Break Ground.
This series contains a bound copy and unbound copies of the complete run of Carbon-14.
This series contains issues of the The Circuit magazine.
This series contains issues of the The Clock Tower literary magazine.
This series contaisn issues of The Codex magazine.
This series contains issues of the magazine Faire.
This series contains one issue of The Genius: Western Students Graphic Arts Quarterly.
This series contains issues of the music magazine Hey Man.
This series contains issues of the literary magazine Masque, a calendar the staff produced and a newspaper article reviewing the fifth issue of the publication.
This series contains issues of the newspaper The Narrator, as well as the publication's charter that was passed by the Associated Students of Whitman College.
This series contains the One Sheet, Four Sheet, Five Sheet and Six Sheet, as well as a related publication, Bally Hoo. Also included are newspaper clippings and correspondence related to kidnappings carried out by Tau Nu Epsilon, in response to student election coalitions.
This series contains issues of the Whitman College Pioneer. Also included are receipts, stationary and a style book from the early 1900s. There is some correspondence about controversial articles included in the newspaper.
This series contains issues of the literary journal Quaterlife.
This series contains volumes 1, 3 and 5 of the publication Queering.
This series contains four issues of The Secession, and three issues of The Succession. It is not a complete run of the publications.
This series contains issues of the The Source publication. This is not a complete run of the publication, as there are missing issues.
This series only contains the first issue of the Whitman Academic Journal.
This series contains all five issues of the Whitman Collegian.
This series contains issues of the Whitman Wire.
This series contains a bound copy and unbound copies of Yeast magazine.
The Constitutional Convention of Washington Territory Collection, which dates from 1878 through 1978, consists of congressional records, an article from The Washington Historical Quarterly, and the petition to the legislative assembly of Washington Territory concerning giving women the right to vote. There is also a member list for the Walla Walla 1878 Constitutional Convention, a letter to Professor Vernon Carstensen at the University of Washington in 1978, and a xerox of a journal from the Constitutional Convention of 1878.
The Alice Reynolds Fischer scrapbook is filled with mementos from Alice Fischer's musical career. It includes concert programs, announcements, song books, and newspaper clippings dating from 1900 to 1948. The programs primarily publicize performances from the University of Michigan School of Music and the Walla Walla Symphony. The collection contains materials added after her death.
The William S. Clark Papers include the notebooks, speeches, and scrapbooks of William S. Clark. These papers, which date from 1855 through 1934, also contain lists of early Walla Walla settlers, letters, documents about the Nez Perce Indians, and other programs and pamphlets.
The collection consists of a Whitman College 1994 Governing Board handbook, general correspondence (1974-2001), correspondence with Robert Skotheim (1975-2001), correspondence with Donald Sherwood (1977-1988), correspondence with George Ball (1980, 2001), correspondence with Thomas Cronin (1993-1999), documents regarding the John M. Davis Scholarship (1984-2000), documents about and copies of John Davis's 1981 Whitman College Convocation speech, Whitman College budget material (1992), the endowment utilization policy for the John M. Davis Scholarship (1992-1997), documents regarding the Maxwell Retreat (1992), and documents regarding the Cushing Eells headstone (1984-1994).
The collection consists of VHS tapes and DVDs of theatrical productions at Whitman.
The McFeely-Besserer Family Papers houses personal material related to the McFeely and Besserer families. This collection, which dates from 1856 to 1949, includes legal documents such as wills, deeds, and promissory notes, family photographs, newspaper clippings, and genealogical materials.
The Dr. Edith Hinkley Quimby Papers contain autobiographical notes, manuscripts of speeches, and published articles. This collection, which dates from 1940 through 1979, also contain tributes given and received, awards, and correspondence. This collection gives an insight into the early use of therapeutic X-rays and radium for the treatment of cancer.
The Virginia Bryant Bedinger Scrapbook spans from 1938 through 1944. This scrapbook contains letters, programs, photographs, newspaper clippings, and other ephemera related to student life at Whitman College and at the University of Oregon. Materials on Virginia Bedinger's summer jobs, travels, post-college employment, and engagement in these years are also included. This collection gives an insight into the life of a college-educated woman.
The Louis B. Perry and Richard S. Perry Manuscript contains the manuscript for the book "A History of the Los Angeles Labor Movement, 1911-1941" by Louis B. and Richard S. Perry. It was published by the University of California Press at Berkeley in 1963. The book explores the events surrounding the Los Angeles labor unions during shifting societal and economic times.
The collection consists of records relating to the Whitman College Communications Office. The collection is divided into six series: News Service, Public Events, Communications Office records, newspaper clippings, and photographic material
Subject files including press releases, correspondence, reports, itineraries, newspaper articles, photographs, financial records, and pamphlets
Subject files including brochures, programs, correspondence, advertisements, press releases, contracts, events listings, calendars, schedules, newspaper articles, records, committee members, photographs, critical acclaim, and technical requirements, arranged chronologically
Subject files including correspondence, newspaper articles, reports, records, press releases, brochures, programs, events schedules and calendars, photographs, biographical information, and posters, arranged alphabetically
The collection spans the years 2005 to 2020 and contains Penrose Library records such as annual reports, budgets, project files, and records from Whitman College groups regarding the Library, such as the Learning Commons Working Group, and the Library Advisory Committee. Also contains records relating to regional or national library organizations such as the Orbis Cascade Alliance (OCA), and the Library Leadership and Management Association (LLAMA). Materials relating to Dalia's professional work in copyright and scholarly publishing are included as well.
The collection consists of scrapbooks, ledgers, songbooks, and letters from the director of alumni affairs related to the Honorary Musical Sorority, Mu Phi Epsilon.
The Leonetti Cellar Collection contains material related to Leonetti Cellar. This collection, which dates from 1997 to 2014, is comprised of historical and biographical information about Leonetti Cellar and its founder, magazines and news articles highlighting Leonetti Cellar and wines, photographs, and menus from the Marcus Whitman Hotel.
The Velma Fry Photographs houses photographs from Velma Fry. Most of the photographs were used in the 1929 edition of the Whitman College yearbook. The contents provide detailed information about the subjects of the photographs.
This collection, consisting of three items, spans the transition of Fort Walla Walla from an active military post to a veterans' hospital. The correspondence book is presumed to contain copies of letters sent by officials at the fort from August 1864 to October 1965. Most describe the transfer of receipts, contracts, reports, and supplies. The building records describe the function, features, dimensions, repairs, and modifications made to buildings on the Fort Walla Walla site between 1906 and 1918. A photograph accompanies the description of each building. The Report of the Officer of the Day includes a description of the duties accompanying that position. Daily reports from May 1922 to November 1924 include brief descriptions of activities and a summary of the number of patients admitted, discharged, transferred, and deceased each day.
The collection consists of several copies of the Russell Financial Report, miscellaneous surveys, college self-studies (every decade or so), studies and reports and evaluations concerning the college.
The Charles W. Phillips Collection houses the personal papers of Charles W. Phillips. This collection, which dates from 1872 to 1913, contains copies of photographs, newspaper clippings from Charles Phillips' scrapbook, genealogical records, illustrations and maps concerning Dreamland Park, biographical information on Phillips, advertisements for businesses operated by Phillips, and correspondence.
The United States Wheat Associates, Walla Walla Branch Records houses the organizational records of the Walla Walla, Washington Branch of the United States Wheat Associates. This collection, which dates from 1959 through the 1980s, consists of minutes, budgets, resolutions, financial records, publications, executive board documents, calendars, newspaper clippings, correspondence, membership records, work plans, reports, pamphlets, abstracts, bonds, marketing materials, and founding documents. This collection documents the wheat industry in Walla Walla.
The Walla Walla Citizens Committee for Historical and Civic Development Records houses organizational records of the Walla Walla Citizens Committee for Historical and Civic Development (WWCCHCD). These records, dated circa 1962, consist of a merger proposal between WWCCHCD and the Pioneer and Historical Society, a Fort Walla Walla museum committee member list, planning documents for Fort Walla Walla museum displays, newspaper clippings, aerial photographs, land use documents of the Fort Walla Walla Museum site, and mailers.
The Harper Joy Collection spans from 1916 through 1972. It consists of newspaper clippings, correspondence, theatre programs, and information regarding the life and death of Harper Joy and his family. The collection also includes an assortment of personally designed Christmas cards of the entire family.
The Vernon and Marylou Kegley Oral History contains an interview with Vernon and Marylou Kegley on DVD. The interview, conducted by Rose Marie Walter on November 6 and 7, 2006, provides information about the Kegley's personal histories and their involvement with Baker-Boyer bank.
The Illustrations from Frank T. Gilbert's "Historic Sketches of Walla Walla County" contains pages from Gilbert's "Historic Sketches of Walla Walla County," of Alfred Burr's illustrations. Burr's sketches depict properties and landscapes of Walla Walla County in Washington state.
The Uriah Franklin "Bill" Corkrum papers houses family papers and letters from the Corkrum, Frazier, Gwin and Chew families. Also included is Bill Corkrum's college memorabilia from his time at Washington State College circa 1938 to 1941, as well as Corkrum's flight logs and military memorabilia from 1941 to 1945. Additionally, it contains farm records from 1947 to 1989 and business records of Ag-Data Inc. circa 1960s. Corkrum's personal photographs and album scrapbooks are also included.
The collection consists of a short biographical sketch of Jeannette Hayner, newspaper clippings, correspondence, and posters. Topics include Hayner's political career (1976-1993) and the honorary doctorate controversy in 1992.
The collection consists of correspondence and memoranda, materials related to his inauguration as Whitman College president, addresses and writings, newspaper clippings, and information about his memorial service. A book, "The Selected Speeches of Donald Sheehan 1968-1973" is also included.
The collection spans the years 1946 to 2015 and includes the records of deans Robert Whitner, Gordon Scribner, Russell DeRemer, Rob Gardner, and Chuck Cleveland. The collection also contains the records of Associate Dean of Students, Assistant Dean of Students, and limited records from the Dean of Men and the Dean of Women. The collection is divided into five series: 1. Committees, 2. Dean of Students, 3. Fraternities and Sororities, 4. Housing and Residence Life, and 5. Office of Student Affairs.
The Committees series dates from 1975 to 2007, and contains meeting minutes and memoranda of the various groups which guide and govern student life, such as the College Council on Interpersonal Relations. The Dean of Students series dates from 1946 to 2015, and contains memoranda and correspondence, policy statements, annual reports and budgets, and other planning documents. The Fraternities and Sororities series dates from 1963-2005, and contains memoranda, correspondence, rush statistics, and policy documents relating to Greek Life at Whitman. The Housing and Residence Life series dates from 1950 to 2009, and contains policy documents, occupancy reports, and memoranda and correspondence relating to the staffing and maintenance of dorms, interest houses, and Greek houses. The Office of Student Affairs series dates from 1948 to 2009, and contains advising manuals, annual reports, and student services records. The series also includes meeting minutes, correspondence, and policy documents of the Associated Students of Whitman College and the Council on Student Affairs.
The Dorsey Franklin Baker Papers contain the business papers of Dorsey Franklin Baker, with a particular focus on his role as a member of the Whitman College Board of Trustees. These papers, which dates from 1929 to 1961, consists of client's financial records, Whitman's financial records, minutes from Whitman College Board of Trustees meetings, and information regarding the Whitman College presidential searches of 1937 and 1941.
The Susannah G. Applegate Manuscript, which dates circa 1980, contains unpublished manuscript chronicles Jesse Applegate's life and pioneer journey. The manuscript is titled "Jesse Applegate: Oregon's Prince of Pioneers." It spans nearly 2,600 pages, and represents Susannah Applegate's lifelong research on her relative. Jesse Applegate was an early Oregon pioneer who helped develop a second trail to the Willamette Valley. The manuscript also includes several photographs and portraits of Applegate family members.
Photographs of World War II (1941-45) era, featuring aftermath photographs of bombing raids carried out by Army Air Force pilots. Gendron, an Army Air Force photographer, would follow up on bombing raids, showing the results of air attacks on German targets. Personal memorabilia collected by Gendron during his three years of service, including a survival kit issued to soldiers in the event they are captured. Also includes orrespondence and photographs of Walla Walla Air Base.
The collection consists of a copy of a manuscript written by Jerome Peltier about Robert Franklin Cummins, and the revised transcript of an interview with Cummins.
The Walla Walla Bank Collection consists of materials related to banking institutions in Walla Walla, Washington. This collection, which dates from 1889 to 1996, contains stock certificates, calendars, annual reports, anniversary publications, newspaper clippings, correspondence, and bank drafts. The Walla Walla Bank Collection consists of materials related to banking institutions in Walla Walla, Washington. This collection, which dates from 1889 to 1996, contains stock certificates, calendars, annual reports, anniversary publications, newspaper clippings, correspondence, and bank drafts.
The collection is divided into two sections: materials created by Walter Brattain in the context of his profession and career (series 1-6), and materials created by the Brattain family (series 7-11).
The Walter Brattain papers contain correspondence between Brattain and his collaborators, Bell Laboratories, Nobel Prize-related correspondence, and letters to other Whitman College alumni. Brattain's writings include his autobiography, speeches, and scientific publications. In addition, the collection contains materials related to his teaching career, research notes, numerous awards and honors, and travels to conferences around the world. The collection also contains photographs of college and reunions, dinner ceremonies and awards, scientific experiments, transistors, and conference trips, specifically those to China and Europe. Rounding out the collection are published scientific papers, awards and diplomas, newspaper clippings, and audio and video recordings.
The Brattain family papers include family histories, correspondence, writings, and photographs. The correspondence series contains letters written or received by members of the Brattain family, including Walter, Ross and Ottilie, Emma Jane, and Keren Brattain. Also included are family and vacation photos. An extensive collection of glass lantern slides documents scenes of daily life in China in the early 1900s. The two groups of materials are not unrelated and some materials might be valuable to both sections but integrated only in one.
Boxes 1-3: General correspondence (incoming and outgoing) arranged by year
Box 4: Correspondence (incoming and outgoing) arranged by writer or recipien
This series documents Walter Brattain's career as a student and teacher of physics, as well as his scientific research, speeches, and writings. In addition, this series contains information on the conferences he attended and the professional memberships and accolades he received.
Walter Brattain taught at Whitman College from the late 1960s through the early 1970s. He taught several physics courses, as well as general science courses designed to help students "understand natural phenomena."
This sub-series contains articles, photographs, speeches, and other materials related to the development of the transistor. Included are writings and correspondence by Walter Brattain, as well as materials he collected.
This sub-series includes handwritten and typewritten manuscripts as well as published articles written or co-authored by Walter Brattain. The bound collections of Bell Telephone Systems monographs include a number of articles by Walter Brattain.
This sub-series includes itineraries, pamphlets, and correspondence related to conferences Walter Brattain attended around the world.
This series consists of science articles and subject files collected by Walter Brattain, reflecting his professional and personal interests. Some files also contain related correspondence.
Photographs document Walter Brattain's activities as a student, teacher, and scientist.
Recordings include interviews and presentations about Walter Brattain, as well as other materials collected by him.
Recordings include interviews and presentations about Walter Brattain, as well as other materials collected by him.
This series includes genealogical and historical information gathered about the Brattain and Houser families.
Family correspondence has been sorted by family member, encompassing both incoming and outgoing letters. Some overlap exists with correspondence between family members, which has been filed under the sender's name when possible. Emma Jane, Keren, Ross and Ottilie, and Walter Brattain are major correspondents in this series.
Personal papers include writings and other documents generated or collected by Emma Jane, Ross, and other family members.
Glass lantern slides document vivid scenes of daily life in China, including people, boats, temples, and landscapes. These slides were probably taken during Ross and Ottilie Brattain's time as missionaries there from 1901 to 1904. Prints and negatives include images of Brattain family members and travel scenes.
This series includes clippings about the Brattain family. A flour sack from the Tonasket Mill rounds out the series.
The collection consists of 36 bound volumes, including several monographs. It contains both the published and unpublished works of W. C. Eells as reprints, that has been arranged and bound in chronological order. Also contained are clippings referring to W. C. Eells, several scrapbooks and playscripts he created during his time as a student at Whitman College, correspondence, and a student publication titled The Co-op. The collection was bound prior to August 2004.
Items of special interest in the collection include: the correspondence of the American Association of Research Colleges from 1942-1945 (v. 14); correspondence, photographs and survey results created during the formation the Evaluation of Secondary Schools by the Cooperative Study of Secondary School Standards (v. 16-18); the personal journal and photographs of W. C. Eells (v. 13); and Eells' Scrapbook and correspondence documenting his work in post-war Japan (v. 20)
The St. Paul Mission Historical Society Photographs, which date from 1911 to 1929, consists of photographs, binders containing negative and positive images, and contact sheets corresponding to those images. The photographs, collected by the historical society, depict agricultural activities, fair and farm shows, parades, trains, landscapes, mountains, buildings, and city scenes from the St. Paul, Oregon area.
The Clarence E. Neumeier Papers house the personal and professional records of Clarence Neumeier, mainly relating to his work with the United States Department of Agriculture and the United States Army Corps of Engineers. This collection, which dates from circa 1929 to 1960, consists of correspondence, photographs, personnel records, appointment records, and documents relating to the United States Army, the War Department of Engineers, the United States Weather Bureau, the Treasury Department, the United States National Park Service, the Navy, the United States Government Printing Office, and the United States Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
The Arthur H. Smith Chinese Artifact Collection consists of hand-painted scrolls, poetry, wall decorations, and advertisements. This collection, which dates from circa 1700 to 1950, also consists of calligraphy, accordion codices, and printed pamphlets of philosophy and ethics. It also includes a small wooden abacus. Though most of these materials were collected by Smith, items from other sources were added to the collection, probably by previous archives staff.
The Lisa Uddin Papers consists of the research materials for Zoo Renewal: White Flight and the Animal Ghetto, a design history of zoological parks in the United States. The collection spans from approximately 2004-2014, and contains ephemera and research materials from zoos in Detroit, Atlanta, Washington D.C., Seattle, San Diego, Portland, Rochester, Providence, Baltimore, and Toronto. The collection includes visitor guides and maps, brochures, postcards, souvenir books and videos, print and radio advertisements, magazine and newspaper clippings, wildlife conservation documentaries, annual reports, institutional correspondence and management records, architectural drawings, and photographs.
The collection reflects Uddin's particular interest in the revitalization of the U.S. zoo space and institutional identity in the 1960s and 1970s as it pertains to urbanization, wildlife conservation, and American race relations.
The First National Bank of Walla Walla Records consist of correspondence, journals, and financial records. These records, which date from 1885 through 1926, also contains tax claims and forms, a cancelled check, and two booklets titled "Walla Walla and Banking" and "A Pioneer's Vision," which describes the history and development of the bank.
The Church Family Collection, which dates from the late 1800s through 1980, consists primarily of negatives of the Church family, their friends, landscapes in the Walla Walla, Washington area, as well as slides, photograph prints, photograph albums, newspaper clippings, correspondence, a marriage certificate, and genealogy research. The collection also contains ephemera related to a mine operated by the Church family. This collection documents the lives of the Church family, as well as W.D. Church's work in the mining industry, through photographs and written works.
The collection consists of a manuscript copy of "Off to the Frazer River Mines, The Diary of Edmund Cavileer Hinde," written in 1878 and by edited Jerome Peltier.
The Gladys Fay Benge Scrapbook includes a scrapbook, and a portrait of Gladys. The pages in the scrapbook contain pictures, invitations, letters, newspaper clippings, and pamphlets from the 1920s during her time at Whitman.
The collection consists of Chinese language books, bank documents, correspondence, newspaper clippings, Certificates of Residence, photographs and negatives, information about the 1887 Chinese massacre at the Snake River, Chinese World Newspaper, red envelopes, David Deal research notes, and 1973 tape recorded oral history interviews from the "Chinese in Walla Walla" project.
The collection consists of correspondence, film booking contracts, box office reports, telegrams, product digests, bank statements and records, availability notices and documents related to the distribution and showing of motion picture films.
The collection consists of photographs of Percy Johnson (b. 1887); his musician's union card and related information; Walla Walla Symphony programs from the inaugural 1907 season and from the 1930s-1960s; other concert programs, including recitals given by the Fischer School of Music in Walla Walla (c. 1907); newspaper clippings about the Walla Walla Symphony; and a history of the Walla Walla Symphony Society.
The Edith Smith Papers, spanning from 1889 through 1953, houses Edith Smith's photographs from her days at Whitman College, her students, and the 1925 Native American Congress. It also includes personal papers, correspondence, and a scrapbook. This collection provides insight into the experience of a Whitman College student, and the ways Native Americans were represented during the early nineteenth century.
The Ginger Kelly Walla Walla Balloon Stampede Scrapbook contains the scrapbooks of Ginger Kelly, the first female balloon pilot in Washington State. The collection, which dates from 1972 to 2018, consists of scrapbooks, evidencing how the Walla Walla Balloon Stampede began, how it progressed, the people associated with the stampede, and national balloon news. It provides a broad look at ballooning history and culture, as well as the impact the Walla Walla Balloon Stampede has had on the local community.
The collection consists of notes and papers, the 25th anniversary speech, scholarship report 1905-1914, dinner program 1920, correspondence, articles, news clippings, and a thirteenth national council program.
The Women's Coalition Scrapbook contains a scrapbook started by the Women's Coalition in 1988 that was later added to by future women's groups on campus to keep an account of activities. This collection, which dates from 1989 through 2005, also includes newspaper clippings, correspondence, pamphlets, and information regarding on-campus programs. All materials are related to women empowerment programs and the development of the Women's Coalition.
The Whitman College Sports Studies, Recreation and Athletic Records consist of news clippings, photographs, calendars, schedules, publications, correspondence, and memos pertaining to sports of all levels at Whitman College. It also contains information on the construction and maintenance of the Walla Walla Stadium, built in 1925 and renamed Borleske Stadium in 1940.This section consists of reports, policies, and correspondence between Whitman College and various governing bodies; NAIA, PNIAC, NCAA and Northwest Conference.
Coaches association Pacific NW Conference 1946-1950; correspondence between football coaches, 1962; coaches association minutes, 1962.
binder of PE discussion material, 1978; packet of write-up on the state of physical education at Whitman, 1968.
NCWSA regulations for the rewarding of financial aid to student athletes, 1974; study of athletics and scholarship at Whitman College, 1928.
correspondence, 1970's; PNIAC guide from the 1980's; Agreement 1976.
Correspondence, minutes of committee meeting.
Women's athletic association of Whitman College; scheduling of athletic events 1970's; correspondence with University of Montana and University of Washington, 1906; Intramural sports constitutions, 1930's-1940's
articles, flyers, review 1977, correspondence, schedules, folder of 'general' with discussions about dropping football 1949-1974, clippings about football, bicycling proposal, suggestions for careers, and ski championships.
NAIA Administrative Manuals, guides and handbooks (1980's and 1990's) Women's sports 1980-1981 correspondence NAIA District One material 1983-1984 NAIA District One procedures and statistics, 1970's Football correspondence, 1970's
"The Early Years of PNIAC" by L.J. Sparks, 1925; PNIAC Agreements, 1903-1972; Correspondences and miscellaneous items, 1947-1976; Participation lists, 1953-1972; PNIAC new conference agreement, 1961-1963; documents re: enlargement of the Conference, 1964-1965; Linfield College case documents, 1967-1968; PNIAC article by Robert Whitner and Louis Perry, 1965; Athletic schedules, 1952-1974; NAIA Documents, 1955-1971; NAIA minutes, 1954-1972; PNIAC Eligibility Certificates, 1955-1972.
Files pertaining to individual sports at Whitman College organized first chronologically and then by discipline. The bulk of the material covers the 1960's through the 1980's.
This is an unprocessed addition to the Whitman College Sports Studies, Recreation, and Athletics collection, consisting of materials collected by Whitman College Athletic Director Dean Snider, from alumni who dropped them off during various athletic reunions. Materials include photographs, newspaper clippings, magazines, and other such ephemera from Whitman College football, cross country, and golf teams, as well as a basketball pamphlet, and a Walla Walla Sweets baseball photo.
This is an unprocessed accession that contains subject files and photographs, including CDs, relating to the following Whitman College sports: basketball, soccer, volleyball, tennis, golf, swimming, rugby, baseball, and cross country. The records date from approximately 1978 to 2011.
The Walla Walla County Conservation Disrict Newsletters contains newsletters from the Walla Walla County Conservation District, as well as newspaper clippings about the WWCD. The materials date from approximately 2000 to 2017.
The collection consists of legal documents, correspondence, memorabilia, publications, alumni and student records related to the Alpha Eta chapter of Tau Kappa Epsilon.
The Lester R. Armstrong photographs consist primarily of negatives documenting portraits, family events, and scenes of Walla Walla, Washington, dating from circa 1917 to 1957. Notably, there are scenes from the United Service Organization (U.S.O) events, and McCaw General Hospital, which depict activities during World War Two. While the bulk of the collection was produced from Lester's professional photography studio, Armstrong Photos, portions of the collection are dated from before and after he was operating this business.
The Mary Carr Moore Papers, which dates from 1911 to 1986, contains materials related to Mary Carr Moore. The collection consists of materials related to Moore's opera "The Cost of Empire," also known as "Narcissa," whis is about the story of Marcus and Narcissa Whitman. Materials include correspondence, newspaper clippings, programs, a catalog of some of the published songs, operas, orchestral scores, solos and chamber works.
The collection consists of records of diversity groups and events on campus.
The Walla Walla Union-Bulletin photographs, which date from 1949 to circa 2010, houses the negatives and prints of the Walla Walla Union-Bulletin newspaper. The negatives in this collection were taken by newspaper photographers capturing local people, places, and events, some of which were included in newspaper articles written about life in the Walla Walla Valley.
The Ben Flathers and Lloyd Rittenhouse Papers, most of which dates from 1905 to 1963, contains portraits, football team photographs, group photographs from their time at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, and some newspaper clippings related to the shipping, packing, and lumber industries, and the Washington State Penitentiary.
The Whitman College Archives Walla Walla Vertical Files collection contains subject files organized alphabetically by topic. Materials within include fliers, brochures, posters, publications, newspaper clippings, informational packets, reports, and biographical information on events, buildings and topics related to Walla Walla.
The John F. Hook Slides contains photographs taken by John F. Hook, an avid photographer located in Portland, Oregon. The collection, which dates from 1982 to 1998, includes slides of images of his family, his travels around the United States, and of particular note, his backpacking trips throughout the Northwest.
This collection contains records of the operations of the Whitman College Press in Walla Walla from 1975 to 2017 including correspondence with the equipment donor Frank McCaffrey, correspondence between members of the Whitman College Press Committee, budgetary information, layout of the press, information on the use of press equipment, and photos of press in operation; information, research, and original printings for various Whitman College Press projects; numerous advertisements for pieces produced by other small presses between 1973 and 1989 collected by Marilyn Sparks; Records from summer book arts workshops that took place between 1995 and 2003; and issues of the Northwest Book Arts journal between 1980 and 1982.
This collection contains two scrapbooks created by Marjorie Douglas during her time as a student at Whitman College between 1929 to 1933.
The Round Table Club Records consists of club minutes, memberships, schedules, and correspondences between members and potential members. The collection also houses topics covered within meetings such as social, political and academic topics. This collection, which dates from 1916 to 2014, gives an important overview of topics that were considered important during this time span.
The Columbia Reproductions Photographs contains negatives of photographs that depict life in the city of Walla Walla, Washington. Images include documentation of the Walla Walla Symphony, Walla Walla High School, and Whitman College events, as well as portraits of individual Walla Walla residents. The collection also contains photographs of houses and school events from across Washington, and images of blueprints and maps. The photographs date from the 1920s to 1986.
The Walla Walla National Youth Administration records house the organizational records of the Walla Walla, Washington branch of the National Youth Administration (NYA). These records, which dates from 1934 to 1941, consist of correspondence, orders, payroll records, hour reports, work sheets, monthly reports, applications to join the NYA, work agreements, and bank forms. This collection documents the efforts after the Depression to get Walla Walla youth back in the workforce.
The Chief Joseph Dam collection houses a Diorite and Granodiorite rock core drilled from the drainage holes of the Chief Joseph Dam. This collection, which dates circa 1950, also contains a pin of Chief Joseph's head.
The collection consists of letters, invoices, receipts and copies of newspaper articles from "The Sprague Advocate" reporting the "Old Time Reminiscences: Pioneer Days of Steamboats and Railroads in Eastern Washington Territory" of Jack Cartwright, born in 1850 in Swinerton, England. Jack Cartwright worked on the Walla Walla and Columbia River railroad for over a decade in the late 1800s.
The collection consists of personal correspondences and letters pertaining to the Whitman College Dramatic Club, dating from 1901 and 1921-1946. There is also a handmade scrapbook about the Davis family from 1913, entitled "Mountain Memories". There is a script ofThe Ballads from George Washington (1920), and notes for a Whitman College production. There is a 1934 correspondence with Professor Hubert Beard regarding music for a Greek play, possibly The Frogs. There are notes for a 1937 production of The Double Door. There are correspondences, clippings, drafts, and papers related to a pageant on the history of Marcus Whitman and the Whitman Seminary (dated 1933-1938). Correspondence and papers related to Whitman College Dramatic Club's 1941 screening of Journey to Jerusalem. There are articles and clippings about Edith Davis's retirement in 1946. There are also notes for an unknown production and professorial notebooks for Davis's theatre and English classes (dates unknown).

