Robert Watt was an educator and member of the Montana State Legislature from Missoula, Montana. The collection contains Watt's political and personal materials that document his activities in state and local politics, tax reform, and other matters.
Photograph albums documenting the activities of the Donohue family of Missoula, Montana. The majority of the images date from 1910-1922 and include family vacations and Missoula scenes.
Dorothy Floerchinger was a Montana resident and amateur historian. This collection contains a manuscript written by Floerchinger, clippings and research materials on the Conrad family of Kalispell, Montana, and scrapbooks reflecting her personal interests into historic events throughout Montana and the rest of the United States.
Frances Faick Walker was a University of Montana graduate who worked as a social worker in Oregon and collected art as a hobby. This collection contains materials collected by Frances Walker about artists in the Pacific Northwest as well as some information on various members of her family. The collection includes many items from Frances Walker's friendship with Oregon artist Charles Heaney including correspondence, reproductions of his art, photographs, and materials relating to Walker's donation of her collection of Heaney's art to the University of Montana in Missoula.
A few personal papers, photos, a scrapbook of photos and memorabilia from Stella Louise Duncan's student days at the University of Montana in Missoula, Montana from 1905 to 1915, and travel diaries of 1927 trip to Europe, including England and Ireland, and 1932 trip to Russia.
The collection contains correspondence, notes, newsletters and committee information regarding the administration and development of the Women’s Studies program at The University of Montana-Missoula.
The Lake County Federation of Women's Clubs was a confederation of area clubs established in 1925 in Lake County, Montana. The collection consists of the meeting minutes, financial records, certificates, and an artifact.
Journal of Phil Preston's 1939 Senior Trip, School of Forestry, Montana State University (now The University of Montana-Missoula), with extensive daily entries and photos.
This collection contains the diaries of Virginia E. Bass; various legal documents and financial records for the Bass family enterprises; speeches and writings pertinent to the Stevensville, Montana area; a small collection of correspondence; newspaper clippings; and photographs.
The Wheeler for Senate Club was formed to re-nominate U.S. Senator Burton K. Wheeler in the 1946 Montana Democratic primary. The collection contains materials produced and collected by the Wheeler for Senate Club. 
This collection includes meeting minutes, correspondence and newsletters of the University of Montana-Missoula's chapter of the American Association of University Professors. The majority of the material is from the 1940s to the 1960s. 
This collection consists Dr. Edward W. Spottswood's diary from January-August 1913, in which he briefly describes life in Missoula and then focuses on the family's travel in the United States and Europe.
The Homevale Garden Club in Missoula, Montana, was an organization that shared gardening knowledge and promoted pest control, garden shows, and military memorials. The collection includes clippings, financial records, correspondence, meeting minutes, organizational information, photographs, publications, and scrapbooks.
The Heart Mountain Relocation Center was World War II internment camp for Japanese-Americans in Park County, Wyoming. The collection contains publications and printed items produced at Heart Mountain between 1942 and 1945 and publications and clippings pertaining to the Heart Mountain relocation center and the relocation program but produced by other sources between 1942 and 1944.
The collection consists of a biographical sketch of George S. Watkins offering a picture of life in Madison County and Virginia City, Montana, between 1864 and the 1890s.
Letters dated 1925-1932 from Montana writer Frank B. Linderman to Julius C. Peters discussing disbarment, the Masons, the selling of Linderman's Goose Bay residence, his writing, and a description of "wash day."
This map was drawn by Forrest Poe and indicates the various homesteads and settlements that were in the Rattlesnake Valley in Missoula, Montana between 1880 and 1936.
This collection contains Red Lodge Canning Company correspondence, financial, legal, organizational, promotional, photographic records as well as documents from the Rocky Mountain Distributing Company, a beer distribution division of the larger company.
This collection consists of the papers of environmental activist Clifton R. Merritt. From 1964 to 1978 Merritt served as Director of Field Services for The Wilderness Society. After leaving The Wilderness Society, Merritt founded the American Wilderness Alliance (later American Wildlands). His papers include correspondence, research files and other documents from his time with these agencies. Other materials cover his work with Montana Wilderness Association, Montana Wildlife Federation, and Friends of the Bitterroot. The collection also contains personal writings and correspondence. 
The Bitter Root Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution was organized in 1919. The collection includes meeting minutes, clippings about chapter activities, scrapbooks, and historical records relating to Montana and the Bitter Root Valley.
Barbara Corcoran was a popular children's writer who lived in Missoula, Montana until her death in 2003. Corcoran often chose Montana as a setting for her novels including A Horse Named Skyand My Wolf, My Friend. This collection contains correspondence, photographs, manuscripts, and biographical materials relating to Corcoran's life and work.
The collection from the Department of Native American Studies contains material related to Native American organizations, legislation, tribes, education and the Native American Studies program at The University of Montana-Missoula. 
This collection contains the personal papers of the Martinson family of Missoula, Montana, including records of the Missoula Ice and Cold Storage Company, which they owned and operated from the early 1920s to late 1950s.
The collection consists of a ledger that documents individual financial accounts from a Bannack, Montana, area gold dredging company. The year(s) of the ledger is not known but the company operated from 1897 through 1902.
Marie Siedentopf grew up in Miles City, Montana, the daughter of German immigrants who owned a dairy farm. She graduated from the State University of Montana (now the University of Montana) in Missoula in the spring of 1917. This collection consists of her photograph album containing various scenes from her family's farm in Miles City, Montana and her time at school in Missoula, Montana.
This collection consists primarily of diaries Roy Phillips kept as a U.S. Forest Service employee supervising St. Joe, Nez Perce, Kaniksu, and Custer national forests in Idaho and Montana.
The collection consists of two scrapbooks of newspaper clippings compiled by Missoula School District No. 1 (Missoula, Mont.).
Rhoda Richardson was a resident of Lothrop and Missoula, Montana. The collection consists of her memories and photographs of the 1908 flood in western Montana.
A ledger from the White Pine Mill in White Pine, Montana, for 1904-1907. The ledger includes accounts receivable for lumber sales, accounts payable for logging-related expenses, and a section by section record of logging done.
Esther Ada Naylor attended the University of Montana-Missoula from 1930 to 1931, eventually receiving her teaching certification. This collection contains dance cards she acquired at University-sponsored social functions.
This collection includes photographs by Edward H. Boos, a photographer in Missoula, Montana, from 1897 through 1907. Broadly, the photographic subjects include the Missoula, Mission, and Flathead valleys in Montana; Kootenai, Salish and Pend'Oreille families on Montana's Flathead Reservation; and Glacier National Park and Yellowstone National Park. All images were taken near the beginning of the 20th Century.
Chet Huntley was a nationally-known television and radio reporter from Montana. This collection includes an array of materials by and about Huntley: biographical information, personal and professional correspondence; scripts written for his radio and television projects, speaking engagements, and news commentary projects; press clippings, primarily spanning his years with NBC; obituaries published in diverse outlets; an extensive photographic collection; a small sampling of news and documentary broadcasts; and some three-dimensional memorabilia. The collection also includes extensive information regarding Huntley's role with the development of Big Sky Resort in Montana.
This is an artificial collection of audio recordings held by the K. Ross Toole Archives. The recordings document activities at the University of Montana in Missoula including lectures, symposiums, speeches, and musical events. 
This collection contains George McVey's unpublished manuscript, "Butte: Richest Hill on Earth," copies of individual chapters not used in the finished work, editorial columns written by McVey for the Montana Standard (Butte); a limited amount of general correspondence, and several examples of newsletters from organized labor parties in Butte during the World War II period.
This collection includes administrative files, published materials, and audio-visual media produced by the Mansfield Center for Pacific Affairs. The Center was founded to encourage strong understanding and improved relations between the western United States and the nations of the Pacific Rim.
The collection contains photographs, correspondence, clippings and miscellaneous materials related to the Miss Montana and Miss Montana State University (later The University of Montana) pageants.
Transcripts of Stuart Conner's interviews with state senator Carroll Graham of Billings and his interviews with Rene J. Labrie of Harlowton, Montana about the early Montana pioneer experiences of her father, Joseph Labrie. Also included are four archaeological site survey documents for homestead sites in Gallatin and Garfield counties.
The photographs in the William R. Pierce collection cover a variety of subjects in Western Montana and Northern Idaho from the 1930s-1970s. Most notable are the images of Fort Missoula, Montana while it was serving as an internment camp during World War II and images of the aftermath of the 1949 Mann Gulch Fire. 
Original manuscript and galley and page proofs of Hoehling's The Week Before Pearl Harbor.
This collection concerns the life and career of Donald J. Schofield. The collection includes materials of study from the University of Montana, records of employment and military activities, and ephemera from the Forestry Club at the University of Montana. 
Three photograph albums documenting the travels and activities of Dr. William Harvey Harrison, an ophthalmologist with the Indian Service who was especially interested in trachoma.
This collection contains a hand-edited manuscript of Jenny Was No Lady with printing instructions and two newspaper articles about the book. The JN-4D, or Jenny, was designed to be used by the U.S. military to train pilots during World War I but was never used in combat. The Jenny, at the low cost of fifty dollars, was used by the public as early as 1918 and was used for pilot training in the private sector until 1925.
The collection contains materials from the women’s student organizations overseen by The University of Montana's Dean of Women, Associate Director of Student Personnel Services, and the Associate Dean of Students. 
 George Wirt's diary entries for 1864 chronicle Wirt's time serving with Brackett's Battalion during the Indian Campaign of 1864 and range from details of the soldier's daily life to brief accounts of confrontations between the battalion and the various Native American tribes.
This collection includes memorabilia from Eudora Fulkerson's college years at The University of Montana-Missoula (then Montana State University), 1931-1935.
The World War II pamphlet collection contains approximately 1,000 pamphlets, magazines, booklets and book-length literature, and cartoons published during the Second World War or immediately thereafter.
This collection consists primarily of subject and work files of Judi Chapman, assistant to US Representative Pat Williams of Montana from 1979-1991 and then lobbyist working largely with Native American tribes, including the Blackfeet and Havasupai.
The collection focuses on the workings of two mining companies that owned and operated the Drumlummon mine in Marysville, Montana, over five decades.
Dorothy Whitcomb Klimper was a resident of Zortman, Montana. This collection includes correspondence, the manuscript, and photographs from the book Top o' the Mountain: Charley Whitcomb, Mining Man, which she co-authored with Gladys Costello.
Teddie Martin owned a general store and was a prominent citizen of Alberton, Montana. The collection consists of his business and personal correspondence and materials from the Louis Amans estate, of which he was the executor.
This collection consists of records from the South Missoula chapter of Soroptimist International, an international women's service organization for business and professional women who work to improve the lives of women and girls in local communities and throughout the world. The collection contains administrative records, photographs and memorabilia from events, 1978-1990s.
From 2005-2010, former Montana congressman Bob Brown conducted oral history interviews with a variety of political figures in Montana. The interviewees ranged from state legislators, lobbyists, attorneys and journalists, to Montana Constitutional Convention delegates and officials in administrative and financial branches of the Montana State government. A few highlights within the topics are Montana and the Anaconda Company, the recurring sales tax referendum, mining, elections, deregulation, and the legislative process over time.
Jay Carr was a businessman in Taft, Montana; Hamilton, Montana; and Ronan, Montana. The collection contains records relating to his various businesses, especially Carr & Peck of Ronan, Montana; and personal papers, including correspondence, a diary, and photographs.
The collection contains seven items belonging to Otto Puutio: a Foreign Currency Exchange certificate from 1921, Northwest Improvement Company wage statements, Red Lodge, Montana, from 1918 and 1921, a stock certificate for the Finnish-American Mining Company from Minnesota, dated 1909, a Naturalization Service Declaration of Intent dated 1913, and a United Mine Workers of America transfer card from 1908.
Dee Taylor was a professor of anthropology at the University of Montana-Missoula from 1957 until his death in 1991, serving as chair of the department from 1985 until his passing. This collection contains a great deal of material collected by Taylor as a teacher, researcher, and investigator of the archaeology and ethnology of the Northern Plains and Rocky Mountains. 
The Fred Meyer photograph collection contains 86 glass plate negatives, almost entirely of Native Americans, which likely date from around 1910. The collection was left in Browning, Montana by the photographer Fred Meyer. Although the collection is attributed to Meyer, it is evident that some of the plates are copies from other photographers. The majority of images are currently unidentified.
The collection of the corporate records of the Blackfoot Development Corporation of Lincoln, Montana, includes the official seal, articles of incorporation, minutes and by-laws, blank stock certificates, and a blank stock transfer ledger.
This ledger of the Little Anaconda Mining Company in Carter, Montana, contains forty-seven pages of intermittent entries from 1890-1891. The ledger also contains homework and scribblings from Howard Cornish of Missoula, Montana, and one entry for a laundry bill.
Catherine (Kay) Burnham was a clinical psychologist and close friend of Montana writer Dorothy Johnson. This collection primarily consists of correspondence from Johnson to Burnham.
Purchases ledger for the Anaconda Copper Mining Company for 1917.
Walter Tuchscherer was a brewer and pharmacist in Montana and other western states. This collection contains items that pertain to Walter Tuchscherer's life, with documents dating from 1905-1978.
This collection consists of Sterns' reminiscences about his time as ranger for the Lincoln Ranger District in Montana in the 1960s, and memories of the Lincoln Backcountry controversy including his interactions with Cecil Garland.
Robert S. Fletcher was an historian who taught mostly at Oberlin College in Ohio. This collection is comprised of correspondence and research notes for his work on the history of the cattle industry in Montana.
S. Rae Logan was a Montana and Illinois progressive educator. The collection provides extensive documentation of Logan's career as an educator in rural Montana schools and in the well-known progressive Skokie School of Winnetka, Illinois. It also documents his lifelong and in-depth interests in progressive education, character and religious education, right-wing extremism and its relationship to academic freedom in both K-12 schools and universities, and taxation and its relationship to education funding.
Roy M. Cobban was an early Montana settler who lived in Butte and worked in lumbering, mining, and real estate. The collection consists of transcripts of family correspondence.
The Northwestern Live Stock Company was established to acquire, raise, and sell sheep, cattle, horses and other livestock in Choteau County, Montana. The collection contains the organization's financial and legal records.
The Historical Society of Western Montana was founded by Missoula, Montana community members in 1954 for the purpose of collecting and preserving relevant historical documents and data of western Montana. This collection contains correspondence to and from the organization's first secretary, J.B. Speer, concerning the creation and operation of the society.
Letter from Forest Service Chief H.S. Graves, to Elers Koch and the Region One forest officers, November 7, 1910; letter from H.P. Barringer to Henry J. Claffey, November 8, 1910; and H.P. Barringer's report on the 1910 Grave Creek/Trout Creek Fire, November 8, 1910.
This collection represents a large portion of the academic research and writing career of cultural anthropologist and American Indian ethnologist Fred W. Voget. Voget focused his research for many years on the Crow tribe, also called Apsaalooké, of Montana.
The New Mine Sapphire Syndicate mined sapphires in Utica, Montana, in Judith Basin County. The collection contains the company's governing documents, financial records, correspondence, legal documents and court papers, reports, clippings, publicity and printed materials, and photographs.
This collection documents Barbara Evans’ twenty-eight year political career as a county commissioner in Missoula County, Montana. Materials date from 1974, four years before her first election, to 2007, the year Evans retired from political office. The collection provides a look into Evans’ career as a Republican commissioner in a traditionally blue county, and more generally, provides perspective on the experience of women in local government.
H.W. Whicker was an author and professor who taught at The University of Montana and other universities. This collection contains correspondence between Whicker and various publisher's of his work, as well as published works mentioned in the correspondence.
This collection includes photocopies of letters written by Alicia Conrad to George Campbell prior to their marriage in February 1928.
This collection details the initial steps taken by the Rexford Townsite Company to set up the original townsite of Rexford, Montana, as well as a few records of later town activities.
Meeting minutes, correspondence, financial records, scrapbooks and other materials generated by the Associated Students of The University of Montana (ASUM), the student government for The University of Montana-Missoula campuses.
This collection consists of David Bentzin’s copies of reports, files, and documents related to Docket 279-D of the Indian Claims Commission case of the Blackfeet Tribe of Montana vs. The United States of America in the 1970s. Bentzin acted as an expert witness for the Blackfeet Tribe in his capacity as a petroleum exploration geologist.
This collection contains financial, organizational, correspondence, promotional, and reference materials generated by the First National Bank of Missoula, Montana, and a small sample of financial records from the Missoula Trust and Savings Bank. 
Donald S. MacIvor was a Northern Pacific Railroad employee. This collection contains general correspondence, financial records, legal documents, clippings, photographs and miscellany.
The Montana Interscholastic Editorial Association (MIEA) publications collection contains materials from the MIEA spanning from 1967 to 1975 including copies of the annual handbook and the association’s newsletter.
This collection primarily consists of the correspondence, a few diaries, limited financial records, and memorabilia of William and Clarice Cushman of Missoula, Montana, and their son, Roger Cushman. The bulk of the correspondence is letters to Clarice from her husband, William, when he was away from home in the U.S. Navy during WWII, in Liberia for four years, in the Warm Springs mental health facility in Montana, and in the Veterans Hospital in Sheridan, Wyoming. The letters chronicle the family’s daily lives, the centrality of religious beliefs, marital discord, and four decades of Clarice Cushman’s attempts to find medical and education assistance for their son, Roger Cushman, who had severe disabilities. 
James C. Garlington was a Missoula, Montana, attorney elected as a delegate to the 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention. The collection consists of Garlington's papers from the 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention.
This collection is an original charter from the National Farmers' Alliance authorizing the formation of the Carlton Farmers’ Alliance No.6, in Stevensville, Montana, on December 17, 1890. 
This collection consists of the records of the Boone and Crockett Club which was founded in 1887 by Theodore Roosevelt and George Bird Grinnell and remains active today. Since its inception the Club has championed conservation causes and legislation, hunter ethics, and North American big game records keeping. 
This collection contains correspondence, legal documents, research and other materials generated by the members of Lake County Telephone Reorganization Committee as they worked to determine the support and requirements for creating a local cooperative telephone company.
The Broadwell and Dana families included an important Montana artist, Fra Dana, and a significant ranching business. This collection contains genealogical information on many branches from Fra Broadwell's family and Edwin Dana's family.
Harry Fritz was a professor of American history at the University of Montana in Missoula for forty years. He also served several terms in the Montana State Legislature in the 1980s and 1990s. This collection contains office files from Fritz's career at the university from the 1960s to 2000s as well as materials from his time as a state legislator including correspondence with constituents, campaign materials, and video of legislative events.
The Rankins were a Missoula, Montana, family with a mill business. The collection includes a broad range of John Rankin's financial records, 1888-1906; speeches and clippings of Jeannette Rankin from 1916-1941, her 1940 congressional campaign, and a Report of International Congress of Women, 1919; and Wellington Rankin's 1946 campaign and two Montana Supreme Court cases, 1925 and 1941, in which he served, respectively, as attorney for the plaintiff and attorney for the defendant.
The collection contains records of Yellowstone National Park companies involved in the operation of the Park including lodging, transportation, and recreational activities.
The Morin Lumber Company was located in Missoula, Montana. This collection includes financial and legal records detailing the daily operations of a small-scale western Montana lumber mill, with particularly detailed records between 1944 and 1957.
Washington J. McCormick was an early resident and attorney in Missoula, Montana. His collection consists mostly of legal documents from his practice but also includes some family papers and ephemera.
The Cottrell and Helean Logging Company operated in Missoula, Montana. The collection contains general correspondence, financial records, legal documents and maps from 1945 to 1971.
The collection contains financial records including volumes for price lists, engraver's records, outside and Butte shipping slips from 1926 to 1966.
This typescript of James H. Morley's daily dairy begins in 1862 with his trip from St. Louis, Missouri, to Montana and details his gold-mining efforts primarily in western Montana from the Gold Creek and Deer Lodge area south almost to Yellowstone. Morley's daily entries end with his return to St. Louis in August 1865.
This collection consists of a photocopy of Helen Edna Buck's thirty-two page, handwritten letter from September 30, 1916 detailing her family's move from Yakima, Washington, to Rhodes, Iowa, driving through Idaho, Yellowstone Park, Montana, the Dakotas, and Minnesota.
John Well-Off-Man’s collection of photographs contains images of what is now the Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. While the images in the collection come from several sources, the majority are believed to have been taken by John Gable, the son of William Gable, the Lutheran Pastor on the Rocky Boy Reservation in the 1920s, 30s, and 40s. 
The Douglas Mine and Concentrator operated in Granite County, Montana from 1964-1968 under the ownership of the Montana Phosphate Products Company and later Cominco American, Inc. The records contain material related to the development, operation and dismantling of the mine and concentrator, as well as several maps and engineering drawings illustrating the Douglas Operation and other nearby mines owned by these same companies. 
General merchandise ledger (1902-1904) for the Beckwith Mercantile Company of St. Ignatius, Montana.
This collection contains personal ephemera and photographs belonging to Peggy DeMichele, long-standing Administrative Aide to Montana politician Mike Mansfield. It also contains photos, speeches, and documents of Montana Congressman James O'Connor, with whom DeMichele worked prior to Mansfield.
This collection contains letters from customers throughout Montana and nearby states ordering fruit from Theon H. Durnford in Lolo, Montana, 1913-1924 and Durnford's receipts and statements from Hughes Mercantile in Lolo between 1917 and 1919.
The John M. Clifton photograph album contains photos of timber work out of St. Regis, Montana, in 1909; the construction and camp sites for building the Big Blackfoot railway branch in Montana in 1910; the Colgate, North Dakota, railway branch from 1910-1911; and the Wenatchee, Washington, railway branch from 1912-1913. Also included are a few family photos of John M. Clifton, his wife Nora Toole Clifton and their daughter, Thula. 
Informational flyers, brochures, newsletters, and books acquired by the Montana Human Rights Network from a departing member of the Church of the Creator Northwest headquartered in Montana.
This collection contains correspondence, diplomas, and other personal materials of Otto A. Bessey, an administrator and scientist specializing in nutrition, toxicology, and biochemistry. Bessey (1904-1996) was considered a founding member of the scientific staff of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.
The collection contains minutes of meetings, membership information, yearbooks, financial records, photographs, writings, scrapbooks, and materials from projects undertaken by the Eta Chapter of Delta Kappa Gamma Society, including the restoration of the Hellgate Trading Post and the Grant Creek One-Room Schoolhouse now at Fort Missoula. 
The collection contains materials related to the research and writing of Oberdorfer’s book, Senator Mansfield: The Extraordinary Life of a Great American Statesman and Diplomat (Smithsonian Books, 2003). 
This collection consists of seven videotaped interviews with Carling I. Malouf, former Professor of Anthropology at The University of Montana. The interviews were conducted between September 21 and October 26, 2004.
The Missoula Business and Professional Women is an organization in Missoula, Montana that promotes equal rights for women in the workplace. This collection primarily consists of reports, minutes, and correspondence generated by the operation of the organization and programs from the annual state conventions.
Vern Haugland was a journalist who served in World War II and covered flight and space exploration. The collection contains a variety of materials collected and produced by Haugland as part of his journalism career, personal writing, and enduring interest in the military.
This photocopied collection is composed of a newspaper clipping dated July 15, 1865, 13th U. S. Infantry soldier Franklin Miller's diary from January 1-August 5, 1867, and his 1866 identification card from Fort Riley, Kansas.
This collection contains correspondence, financial, legal, promotional, and organizational records generated by the Collins Land Company as well as government publications regarding federal public lands and business records from three other Collins family enterprises. The Collins Land Company was based in Helena, Montana, and bought and sold public lands.
This collection contains the personal and professional papers of Dr. Jessie M. Bierman, a pioneer in the field of maternal and child health, from all stages of her life.
The collection includes the 119-page manuscript of Violet Dunbar's unpublished book, Homesteaders in Montana. The manuscript describes her own family's arrival in Montana, descriptions of her childhood in Red Lodge, Montana, farming, community activities, town life, attending a rural school, and a 1911 trip through Yellowstone National Park. Dunbar also describes her courtship and marriage to George Dunbar, her honeymoon in Yellowstone National Park, the birth of her son, and her move to Detroit, Michigan.
The Missoula Electric Cooperative was formed in 1936 to supply power in and around Missoula, Montana. The collection includes general information about MEC including correspondence, history, and technical and financial reports.
The Missoula Mercantile Company Holiday Party Collection includes fourteen photographs and a program for the variety show entertainment show at the company's holiday party on January 6, 1945.
Max Baucus was a Montana congressman who served in the Montana House of Representatives from 1973 to 1974, the U.S. House of Representatives from 1975 to 1978, and the U.S. Senate from 1978 to 2014, and served as the U.S. Ambassador to China from 2014 to 2016. This collection includes administrative files, constituent correspondence, sponsored and cosponsored bills, floor and hearing statements, committee files, voting records, legislative subject files, press materials, and campaign files and ephemera, as well as some personal material.
The Montana Gerontology Society is dedicated to enhancing professional development and understanding among providers of services, seniors, volunteers, researchers, educators, students, and others associated with the field of aging. This collection include the Society’s administrative documents, conference materials, photographs, and newsletters from 1982-2018.
This collection contains research materials related to the Missoula Women for Peace Oral History Project conducted by Dawn Walsh in 2000 as part of an internship with the Jeannette Rankin Peace Resource Center and in conjunction with the Women’s Studies Department at The University of Montana—Missoula. 
The Frank D. Brown Family Papers include Frank D. Brown's business correspondence, financial records, insurance company records, Society of Montana Pioneers records and correspondence, writings, photos, and memorabilia. It also includes a small amount of his son, James M. Brown's, personal correspondence and letters related to the Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers as well as Rutledge and Albertina Brown Parker's correspondence with Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers, and a few insurance and legal issues. 
J.R. Mitchell was a Montana cowboy. The collection consists of three reminisces of his early life in Montana.
This collection contains materials related to University of Montana-Missoula professor Mary Birch’s discrimination complaint filed with the Montana Human Rights Commission against the University, her colleagues' (Marlene Salway and Patricia Roesch) District Court discrimination suits, and memos and news clippings regarding gender equity at the University of Montana.
This collection contains correspondence, notes, photographs, audio material, and visual material related to Anthropology Professor Carling Malouf’s work and activities at the University of Montana in Missoula, as well as his research on Native American tribes of the Northwest and the Plains. 
James Clinton Rule attended the State University of Montana (now the University of Montana) in Missoula in the 1920s. Rule was a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity and also a member of the track team. This collection contains a scrapbook and an additional collection of materials related to his time at the University including photographs, dance cards, and correspondence as well as his freshman beanie.
Grant Maclay was a Missoula, Montana, resident with an interest in Fort Missoula. The collection contains a chronology of Fort Missoula events, correspondence regarding the decommissioning of Fort Missoula, legal documents, maps, writings, and clippings concerned with Fort Missoula. In addition, there are documents pertaining to the Maclay business.
Assembled in the mid-1970s by Bonner School Superintendent Jack L. Demmons, this collection of approximately 1,600 photographs depicts life in and around Bonner, Montana, from the late 1800s through the 1960s.
Cornish, Winstanley, and Tower was a Missoula, Montana, law firm. The collection consists of outgoing correspondence and financial records from the law firm.
The Northern Pacific Railway Company was a transcontinental railroad that crossed Minnesota, Wisconsin, North Dakota, Montana, Idaho, Washington, and Oregon. This collection includes both bound and unbound correspondence, construction and expense reports, financial ledgers, right-of-way descriptions and maps, activity logs, publicity materials (including photographs and film reels), and personnel records created by employees of the Northern Pacific Railway Company and its subsidiary lines between the years 1870 and 1968--though materials are predominantly from the late 1880s through the early 1940s.
Photographs of St. Ignatius Mission Church in St. Ignatius, Montana, as well as clergy and Native American council members attending church services in 1948. 
This collection contains correspondence, financial, legal, promotional, personal, and photographic records relating to the McGowan Commercial Company of Plains, Montana, a general store that supplied many of the material goods in this small western Montana town and surrounding areas.
In 1977 Rexford S. Blazer and John L. Wachsmuth managed a historical resource identification and location project study of Montana's mining camps. This collection contains typewritten documents, hand drawn maps, and photo negatives of mining camps in Montana.
This collection includes two deeds for the exchange of land in Montana. The first deed, dated March 24, 1899, involves the sale of $4,007.98 worth of land in what was then called Deer Lodge County. The second deed, dated January 27, 1902, involves the sale of $3,000 worth of land in Powell County. 
The District 1 flume manual explains advantages and disadvantages of flumes, choosing locations, construction including blueprints, hydrography including stream flow tables, and offers examples of working flumes in Montana and Idaho. The manual was likely created in 1912.
Reminiscence of fighting a forest fire in the Kootenai Forest in northwestern Montana while working for the Civilian Conservation Corps during the Great Depression.
The Missoula New Party was a progressive political organization formed in the spring of 1993 by a group of Missoula, Montana citizens who were motivated to move the political system in a more progressive direction by creating a third party option to the existing two party system. Materials in this collection document the organization’s main functions and activities, including electoral campaigns at the local and state level, as well as a number of issue-based campaigns directing at changing policy. The records in the collection document the relationship between the local chapter and the national New Party organization, local grassroots efforts to engage and grow a third political party movement, and significant issues in progressive politics during the 1990s.
The Cora Ball Scrapbook and Photograph Album feature clippings, newsletters, and other ephemera from Ball's middle and high school years in Harlowton, Montana, as well as photos of Ball’s later career and colleagues at the telephone office in Conrad, Montana. Other photos from her travels to Glacier National Park and Alberta, Canada, and snapshots of her family and friends in the late 1920s and early 1930s are also included. 
A collection of approximately 2,000 pamphlets, magazines, booklet and book-length literature, maps, posters, and cartoons published during the "Great War" or immediately thereafter.
H. David Cogley was an engineer with the 326th engineer battalion of the 101st Airborne Division stationed at Camp Eagle in South Vietnam. His collection includes a scrapbook, reminiscences, and photographs of his experiences in South Vietnam as a member of an engineer battalion in the 101st Airborne Division from 1969 to 1970.
The collection includes three letters, a post office notice, and blank invoices for or about Garnet, Montana, residents, 1912-1938.
This collection consists of the professional papers of environmental activist Stewart M. Brandborg. Brandborg served as Executive Director of The Wilderness Society from 1964-1977 and his papers include correspondence, research files and other documents from his time with that agency. Other materials cover his work with the National Wildlife Federation, the National Park Service, Wilderness Watch, and Friends of the Bitterroot (Montana.) 
Phi Kappa Phi is a scholastic honorary society that works to promote academic excellence in all fields of study in higher education. This collection contains the operational records of the University of Montana's chapter of Phi Kappa Phi in Missoula including correspondence, meeting minutes, membership information, by-laws, handbooks, awards, and publications.
Helen Faick was a former University of Montana student and graduate of Radcliffe College in Cambridge, Massachusetts who went on to design greeting cards and wrapping paper, and owned her own company. This collection contains a sampling of greeting cards and wrapping paper Faick created as well as correspondence she maintained with University of Montana professor H.G. Merriam.
This collection includes University of Montana student Frederick Greenwood's school papers, college scrapbook, thesis, speeches and writings on finance, banking and the Federal Reserve System
This collection contains materials documenting the life and work of Emma Lommasson, an employee and alumna of the University of Montana in Missoula. The collection includes photographs, scrapbooks, papers, and ephemera from across Lommasson's 107 years. 
The Metal Mine Workers' Union developed shortly after a mine fire in Butte, Montana that killed 168 miners in June 1917. The destruction of Butte's once powerful mining union in 1914 left miners unable to negotiate with the operating companies for better pay and safer working conditions and the organization of the new union intended to rectify the situation. This collection includes several of the Metal Mine Workers' Union's "Strike Bulletins" that helped to inform union members on developments and gain support for their cause.
The collection consists of a short biographical outline of Madison County, Montana, rancher Myron D. Jeffers for his nomination to the “Cowboy Hall of Fame” in Oklahoma City and copies of business and personal letters Myron Jeffers received.
This University of Montana Disability Services for Students collection contains correspondence relating to the need for more services and support for students with disabilities. It includes several complaints filed by students as well as internal memos addressing the lack of support for students. This collection is restricted.
This collection includes photos, receipts, and correspondence laying out the changes and challenges that Ernest Millikan and his family met as they ran the Bitterroot Market in Missoula, Montana, from 1932-1987.
Robert H. (Ty) Robinson, a prominent member of the Missoula, Montana community, worked as a lawyer for many years, and volunteered with organizations that were proponents of education, health, and the environment. This collection consists of documents, ephemera, and photographs from Robinson's early life and education, his career, and his involvement in civic matters and organizations, including his historical talks.
The collection consists of two biographical sketches produced by an unknown author: one of Robert McIntosh Trafton and one of Herbert L. Dorr. The men were owners of the Trafton-Dorr Company in Malta, Montana.
H. G. Merriam was a University of Montana professor who played a crucial role in the development of Montana and Northwest literature. This collection contains personal and professional correspondence as well as working copies from Merriam's writing and editing endeavors. Significant subject categories include Merriam's service during World War I; long involvement with the Rhodes Scholarship program; teaching and administrative activities at the University of Montana--Missoula; founding, editing, and leadership contributions to the Frontier and Midland journal of regional literature; and activities to help create and guide the Montana Institute of the Arts.
This collection contains papers, which represent Meyer Chessin’s education at the University of California and career as a Plant Physiologist at The University of Montana; these paper include correspondence, publications, research materials, teaching papers, service papers, and some audio-visual materials. 
This collection includes photocopies and originals of materials related to the construction and daily business of early Fort Missoula, and also contains information on the 25th Infantry Bicycle Corps.
Vada Keller Albin was married to Berthold Richard Albin. The collection consists of a single 22-page biographical sketch of Berthold Richard Albin compiled by Vada Keller Albin in approximately 1959.
Steve Waldron was a member of the Montana House of Representatives from 1977 to 1985, representing Missoula. He focused on issues related to women, workers, and education.
Leo and Claire Rhein were residents of Stevensville, Montana, and retired from the U. S. military. The collection contains a ration book from World War II and military photographs, especially from the U.S. Signal Corps, 1864 to 1959. It also contains Claire Rhein's research files on Fort Owen and Major John Owen.
This collected information on the history of The University of Montana-Missoula mascot includes Kaimin clippings, press releases, Sentinel yearbook photos and information, telephone interview notes, photographs, and a timeline. 
This collection includes a broad range of correspondence and informal financial records for early Montana settler David H. Linebarger; correspondence and laundry account records for his wife, Dora Linebarger; minimal correspondence and a document for their son, Walter L. Linebarger; a recipe and general notebook for Della Meyers; W.P.A. documents and correspondence regarding Elmer C. Linebarger's work as a farmer, commodities clerk, and finally as an employee of the War Department; and a wide range of photographs.
Shipping records of Yegen, Talmage, and Company, a general merchandise firm in Red Lodge, Montana. 
This collection consists of materials created by the operation of the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Library of the University of Montana in Missoula. Materials include annual reports, correspondence, meeting materials, contracts, holdings information, grants, budgets, and information about the library buildings from 1903 to 2003.
This collection contains early correspondence between members of the Railsback family of Montana, the personal correspondence of Edna Railsback, and miscellaneous papers, clippings, and notes from 1909-1923.
The typed diary transcription describes the life of Gillette Ernest Van Buren (commonly known as George Van Buren) with his family in the Rattlesnake Valley and Missoula, Montana including the weather, daily work, interactions with neighbors, and the status of Rattlesnake Creek.
Merrill K. Riddick was a resident of Phillipsburg, Montana, and a candidate for Montana governor, U. S. Senate, and U. S. President. This collection contains correspondence including both letters and postcards; publications by Merrill K. Riddick of the Journal of Applied Human Ecology; a short biography about Merrill K. Riddick; papers from his political campaigns; newspaper clippings; speeches; and photographs.
This photo album includes photos of students, instructors, the Forester’s Ball, and the1938 Senior trip to a variety of locales including Plains, Glacier National Park, Nine Mile, Lolo, Custer National Forest, and the Gallatin Forest in Montana as well as a few places in Oregon, Washington, and California.
Eleven poems written by Jo Stepanoff.
Matthew Redinger was a University of Montana graduate student. The collection contains Redinger's research for his master's thesis The Civilian Conservation Corps as a tool of the National Park Service: The Development of Glacier and Yellowstone National Parks, 1933-1942.
Lowndes Maury was a composer born in Montana who went on to work in Hollywood as a pianist, composer-arranger, and conductor. The collection consists mainly of his original compositions, prepared for a variety of clients and instrumentations.
Photos of the Bitterroot Valley in Montana between 1905 and 1925, and two photos of St. Ignatius, Montana.
Kirkwood was a botanist and professor at the University of Montana. The collection consists of a selection of Kirkwood's published and unpublished writings, mostly on the botany of Montana and Idaho.
This collection consists of Evelyn Rhoden’s notes about the history of Musselshell, Golden Valley, and Meagher Counties in central Montana. The notes, which are especially rich in the ranching history, were gathered when Rhoden was employed by the Federal Writer’s Project of the Works Project Administration during the late 1930s and early 1940s.
Summary information about the origin of geographic names within several Montana and Idaho national forests. Notes on the documents indicate this information was copied from card files in 1942.
Earl Truman was a northwest Montana homesteader. The collection contains some correspondence, financial records and ephemera.
This collection contains mostly outgoing correspondence and short stories written by Gertrude Hutchinson Merritt and a brief biography of her life written by Richard L. Merritt. The writings describe Gertrude Merritt’s travels and work in New York, Europe, Latin America and San Francisco from 1925 to her death in 1971.
The National Smokejumper Association is an organization dedicated to the preservation of the history of aerial fire management and wildland firefighting. This collection contains reports, correspondence, interviews, personal papers, photographs, films, and publications related to the development of aerial fire management and the activities of smokejumpers.
Melvin Hedine was a journalist and photographer who graduated from the University of Montana. The collection includes correspondence, clippings, and photographs, 1930-1972.
The J. Neils Lumber Company operated in Minnesota and northwestern Montana. The collection contains annual financial reports for the J. Neils Lumber Company and its subsidiary, the Montana Light and Power Company.
The School of Journalism press scrapbook includes samples of items printed by the school's press from 1932-1936. The items range from event announcements to tickets and dance cards.
The Alice Lear Autograph Album includes often poetic good wishes from her family and friends in Missouri and Montana, 1889-1894. It also includes a single letter, 1884.
Edward "Stan" Healy was a Missoula, Montana, newspaper and freelance photographer and city council member. His collection includes news-oriented and other photographs taken in and around Missoula, mostly in the 1940s through the 1970s, as well as a small amount of personal photography, correspondence, and materials related to his time in the Army Air Force during World War II.
The collection contains the records of the Phi Sigma Society, Lambda Chapter of The University of Montana, from its inception until the mid-1960s, probably when the society became inactive. 
This collection includes eight Valiton family photographs with subjects including Henry G. Valiton and his wife, Mary Rhea Valiton, their son Fred Valiton, grandson Donald Valiton, Dr. Thomas James, and Will Cave, all of Montana, 1890-1914.
This collection contains materials including pamphlets, flyers, newsletters and manuals produced by the Rural Institute for Inclusive Communities, which is affiliated with the University of Montana and has as its mission "creating better lives for rural people with disabilities and their families."
This collection includes researcher Patricia O’Connell’s notes and documents related to the arrival of Ursuline nuns, especially Mother Amadeus, in Montana in 1884 and their work at missions on the Indian reservations. 
This collection contains a variety of photographs of events, people and locations at the University of Montana in Missoula. 
This is a compiled collection of magazines, newsletters, directories, and other resources related to bike riding, touring and cycling safety in Montana. The bulk of the collection consists of publications produced by BikeCentennial (later known as Adventure Cycling) and the Missoula Bicycle Club (known for a time as Missoulians on Bicycles). Most of the materials were published in Missoula. 
The collection contains daily meteorological observations from the Missoula office of the Weather Bureau from November 1935 to December 1988.
This collection contains correspondence, financial, legal, organizational, promotional, and photographic records generated or collected by William Leonard Albrecht with particular emphasis on the Albrecht Furniture Company, the first and one of the most distinguished furniture stores in Great Falls, Montana.
Gertud Lackschewitz was a professor of German Language and Literature at the University of Montana from 1960 until 1989. This collection primarily consists of research files related to her work with German immigrants and individuals of German ancestry in Montana. 
The Lolo National Forest Collection contains materials related to the administration and history of Lolo National Forest, which is located in western Montana. The collection contains documents concerning the changing boundaries of the National Forest, the land management, and historical landmarks like the Ninemile Remount Station, as well as administrative files from the Missoula National Forest and Cabinet National Forest, both which contain lands transferred to Lolo. Finally the collection includes photographs, primarily of the Ninemile Remount Station and Civilian Conservation Corps activities conducted from the camp there during the 1930s and 1940s.
Thain White was a Montana historian who focused on the history of western Montana, particularly the Flathead valley. The collection contains maps, artifacts, and documents concerning a variety of Montana historical topics.
The collection includes drug prescriptions filled by the Peterson Drug Company in Missoula, Montana, between 1914 and 1915.
This collection consists of records of the University Relations department of the University of Montana-Missoula, including press releases documenting university events and athletics, as well as departmental and individual noteworthy achievements.
The collection consists of a manuscript entitled "History of Drummond" by Leslie L. Like.
This collection contains correspondence, financial, legal, organizational, and promotional records generated and collected by the Great Falls Breweries, Inc. and its subsidiary, the Montana Malting Company. Collection materials document procedures and finances within the company and professional relationships with product distributors, industry representatives, other regional breweries, suppliers, elected officials, and government regulators.
Robert D. Watt was born in Marion County, Indiana, in 1899. He lived there until 1910, when his family moved to Missouri. In 1925, he graduated from the University of Missouri and in 1928 earned a master's degree from the University of Indiana. He moved to Montana soon afterward.
From 1932-1936, he taught in St. Ignatius, Montana. In 1937, he started teaching at Missoula County High School. He enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1942 and served in the North African campaign in World War II. At the end of the war, he returned to Missoula and resumed his teaching duties. In 1958 he was elected superintendent of schools for Missoula County. At the end of his four-year term, he successfully ran as a Democrat for a seat in the Montana House of Representatives and served six consecutive terms. In 1974, he was elected to the Montana State Senate, a post he filled for three two-year terms. While a member of each house, he chaired the Tax Committee. He was a strong advocate for replacing local property taxes with an income tax. This proposal passed the House but was defeated in the Senate. He was also a strong advocate for long-range planning for building and government development in Montana.
Watt married Mabel Hardy Benson in 1965. Together, they were responsible for establishing Common Cause in Montana. She died in 1991. He died in 1994.
Daniel J. Donohue (1869-1939) was an Irish immigrant who grew up in Chicago. He worked in the mercantile business in Chicago, Butte, Montana, and Hamilton, Montana before opening his own store, D. J. Donohue Company, in Missoula in 1900. He married Kate Hennessy (1866-1951) in Butte in 1894. They had three daughters: Dorothy, Eileen and Kathryn.
Dorothy Floerchinger, the daughter of Ralph and Willie Mae Bracegirdle Bruner, was born on February 22, 1901, in Scotia, Nebraska. Graduating from Valier High School in Great Falls, Montana, in 1920, Mrs. Floerchinger began a career of teaching in Pondera County Schools. Due to an acute teacher shortage following World War I, the State Superintendent of Schools issued a special permit allowing her to teach elementary school with no professional training. She married Louis Floerchinger on November 15, 1924 and raised five children on the family farm near Conrad, Montana.
Throughout her life, Mrs. Floerchinger was an avid historian. Mrs. Floerchinger published several historical pieces on Northern Montana - from the history of the City of Conrad to the history of Pondera County. She did extensive research on the Conrad family of Kalispell, who founded the city of Conrad, and was involved in the preservation of local Conrad history. She also wrote literary pieces, publishing an anthology of poems and short stories called Highway to Happiness, a biographical tribute to a Conrad minister and humanitarian called To Speak of Love Was Not Enough, and her family history, The Bruner Bunch.
Mrs. Floerchinger was active in many organizations, including the Montana Library Association, the Montana Farmer's Union, and the Montana Democratic Party. Besides an interest in history, Mrs. Floerchinger was a poet and an artist. Mrs. Floerchinger died in Choteau, Montana, on May 8, 1996.
Frances Faick was born on June 7, 1907 in Silvercamp, Montana to Conrad and Margaret Faick. Conrad and Margaret Faick would have four children, Helen, Conrad Augustus, Frances, and John. Frances Faick attended the University of Montana in Missoula and graduated in 1931 with a degree in English. She began teaching school and worked in Montana, Washington, and Oregon. She married Clifford Edward Walker in 1941 and the couple resided in Oregon City, Oregon. Frances Faick Walker became a social worker and worked for the Multnomah County Welfare Department and Clackamas County in the Children's Services Division until her retirement in 1972. In her spare time, Frances Walker was also an artist, art collector, and amateur genealogist.
Frances Faick Walker passed away in Clackamas County, Oregon on October 8, 1991.
Stella Louise Duncan, the daughter of Robert Andrew and Jemima Duncan was born in Glendive, Montana on September 29, 1887. Her father was a pioneer physician. The family later moved to Kalispell, Montana. She attended the University of Montana in Missoula from 1904 to her graduation with a B.A. in 1907. Duncan taught school in Glendive, Montana, for at least one year between 1907 and 1910. In 1912 she did graduate work in languages at Northwestern but moved back to Montana for graduate studies until 1914. Her social life included acting in plays, dances and dinners, and attending sports events. She was a member of the Dramatic Club and, in 1909, was a founding member of Theta Phi, a local sorority which later became a chapter of the national sorority Kappa Alpha Theta.
Duncan then studied at Prince School in Boston, a private training school for business women that was affiliated with Simmon College and Harvard University. She received a B.S. degree in 1921 and was then employed as a buyer for five years in two exclusive women's shops in Boston. From there, Duncan established her own fashion import business and travelled extensively to Europe, Asia, and Africa. She collected art objects and fine home furnishings, most of which she donated to The University of Montana.
Duncan married twice, first to a Mr. Malloy in around 1910 and in 1937 to H.H. Johnstone. She died in Pasadena, California on November 26, 1948.
Women’s Studies is an interdisciplinary program at the University of Montana that first began development in the early 1970s. The first step in the development of Women’s Studies occurred in 1971 when eight faculty and community members collaborated to present a symposium on campus entitled, “Realities and Reaction: A Symposium on Women.” Following the symposium, faculty members began to offer courses focusing on women’s contributions to knowledge. Many of these courses were offered in collaboration with the Women’s Resource Center on campus.
In 1975, the first proposal for establishing a women’s studies concentration within the Liberal Arts major was presented to the faculty senate. Although the Senate approved the proposal, the program was not funded or implemented. The program continued to develop though the efforts of faculty on campus. In 1984 a brochure entitled “Women in Curriculum” was published. The brochure outlined over forty courses with an emphasis on women at the University of Montana. In September 1990, a final proposal to create a Women’s Studies emphasis within the department of Liberal Studies was submitted to the Board of Regents and accepted. The emphasis was implemented in the fall of 1991.
Fall of 1992 marked the first year of a significantly funded program with Professors Deborah Slicer and Bari Burke acting as co-directors. Fall of 1993 brought the authorization of a half-time director of Women’s Studies and Dr. Julia Watson served as director from 1993-1995. Since 1996, various directors and co-directors have developed and expanded the program. As of 2007, the Department offers a minor in Women and Gender Studies open to students of all majors, and a continually evolving course list.
The Lake County Federation of Women's Clubs, organized in 1925, worked to promote other women's clubs in Lake County, Montana, by joining them together as one organization, while allowing the individual clubs to grow and prosper for themselves. The federation established committees to address such topics as safety, special education, legislation, literature, and Special Olympics. They played an active role in World War II issues, supporting defense bonds, the Red Cross, and the movement to save tin, aluminum, and lard for the war effort. The federation displayed political voice on many subjects ranging from criminal cases to women's suffrage. The federation made a considerable effort to unite women's clubs and operate together for the good of the communities they represented.
Phil Preston was born in Montana on August 18, 1915. He attended high school in Great Falls, Montana, and he attended the University of Montana-Missoula from 1934 to 1939, receiving a B.S. in Forestry. After graduation Preston worked for Great Northern Railway for two years before service in Europe during World War II. When he returned, he joined his family in Ontario, Oregon, where he worked as a police officer before being hired as an engineer by the Oregon Department of Transportation. He retired in 1977.
Dudley C. Bass, born in 1842, and his brother William E. Bass, born 1838, were natives of Vermont, the sons of William B. Bass and Ruth (Childs) Bass. They moved to Montana's Bitterroot Valley in 1864, where they first concentrated on mining. They began raising hay, grain, and fruit, which they sold in the mining camps. In 1871 the brothers started the first orchard, the Pine Grove Fruit Farm, on their 320-acre plot of land in Stevensville, Montana. The business prospered, propelling the brothers to expand their land holdings to 1000 acres and increase the variety of produce they planted. They not only distributed their produce to the surrounding areas but also shipped it to many cities along the Atlantic Coast and even some of the lower Canadian states. They also raised Durham cattle, Norman-Percheron horses, and choice breeds of sheep. The Bass brothers also endeavored in a sawmill, a grist mill, and ran a freight line between the Bitterroot and Corrine, Utah.
William E. Bass made his name not only as a prominent entrepreneur but he also served four terms on the Territorial Council, including one as its president in 1877. He also served three terms as a member of the Montana Legislature.
Virginia E. Bass, William's wife, was only the second white woman to live in Stevensville, arriving in 1864. Virginia's sister, Etta Emmett, joined her some years later and subsequently married Dudley Bass; they had one son, Lee Emmett. The Bass family was held in such high esteem in the Bitterroot Valley that Bass Peak, Bass Creek, Bass Canyon, and Bass Crossing were all named for them.
The Wheeler for Senate Club was formed to re-nominate U.S. Senator Burton K. Wheeler in the 1946 Montana Democratic primary. R. Bailey Stortz, a member of Wheeler's Washington, D.C. staff, became secretary-treasurer for the club, and Sam E. Winn was president. The club was headquartered in Helena, Montana. Wheeler, who had first been elected by Montanans in 1922, and who was one of the most powerful senators in Washington D.C. in the 1930s, was defeated in the 1946 primary by Leif Erickson. Erickson was subsequently defeated in the general election by Republican candidate Zales Ecton.
John Hopkins’ Professor Arthur O. Lovejoy and John Dewey formed the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) in 1915 to protect the "academic freedom” of college professors nationwide. It is not clear when the Montana chapter of the AAUP was established but it likely began on the University of Montana campus in the late 1910s. The first minute book in this collection dates from 1930. The National AAUP’s concern for the wellbeing and academic freedom of professors brought the organization’s attention to UM on a number of occasions, including during the dismissal of President Craighead in 1915 and during the controversy over the discharge of Librarian Philip Keeney in 1937. They also participated in preparing and moving a collective bargaining bill through the Montana legislature in the mid-1970s.
Edward W. Spottswood was born January 2, 1866, to Mr. and Mrs. Charles Spottswood in Lake City, Minnesota. Spottswood graduated from the University of Minnesota Medical School in 1893 and served his internship at Cook County Hospital in St. Paul, Minnesota. Shortly after, he came to Missoula, Montana as the assistant chief surgeon at the Northern Pacific Hospital. Spottswood became chief surgeon in 1903 and served in that position until 1908. In 1903, he married Lenita J. Bonner, the daughter of Montana pioneer E. L. Bonner. The couple had two children, Edward and Lenita. Dr. Spottswood died May 14, 1951.
The Homevale Garden Club in Missoula, Montana, became a member of the Federation of Garden Clubs on January 28, 1949. The first elected president was Mrs. R.S. McLaughin; Mrs. Verne Osborne, Vice President; and Mrs. Shryock, Secretary/Treasurer. The club chose the climbing red rose for its flower. The garden club accomplished many deeds during its forty-one years of service, specifically working to beautify the community. The Federation planned the Blue Star Memorial Highway through Missoula to honor the men and women who served in the Armed Forces of WWII. Homevale joined with other garden clubs to have the first flower show in Missoula, a show which portrayed the United Nations theme of peace and goodwill. The club won a Blue Ribbon for its junior Garden Club work. The Federation of Montana won a national award for pest control. The club motto was "Do something for others when and wherever you can" and "more intelligent, more inspired gardening." Members taught children to appreciate nature and to see the importance of conservation. The club was on the honor role annually for the Federation of Garden Clubs. The Homevale Garden Club disbanded in 1988.
The Heart Mountain Relocation Center, an internment camp for Japanese-Americans during World War II, was set up under the relocation program administered by the War Relocation Authority (WRA). The camp was located 12 miles west of Powell and 13 miles east of Cody in Park County, Wyoming. This location met certain WRA criteria: it was on public land, was large enough to accommodate the expected population, was far from any strategic areas, and could provide internees with local work projects.
The Japanese-Americans interned at Heart Mountain had been relocated from the West Coast, the area affected by President Roosevelt's executive orders for relocation. The first internees arrived in August 1942. By 1943, the population had reached almost 10,800, making the camp the third largest city in Wyoming. Within the camp were schools, a hospital, a library, a volunteer fire department, stores, and industries. Internees produced the Heart Mountain Sentinel and other publications. The last internees left the camp in November 1945.
Julius C. Peters was born in Shelby, Iowa, on March 31, 1887, to German immigrants. He came west to prepare for the bar at the University of Colorado, where he took the degree of Bachelor of Laws in 1910. He practiced law in Great Falls, Montana until 1921, when he entered the oil business. He was the proprietor of the Home Stake Oil Company and Resolute Oil Corporation. Julius Peters died in December 1970.
Forrest Poe was born in 1908 to Fred W. and Julia Ann Poe, homesteaders in the Rattlesnake Valley in Missoula, Montana. Forrest was the middle child of three children. He grew up on his father’s homestead farm four miles north of the present trailhead for the Rattlesnake National Recreation Area and Wilderness in Missoula, Montana. In 1931, Forrest Poe married Flossie May Galland, whose parents were homesteaders in Eastern Montana. Forrest and Flossie later took over the homestead farm that Forrest’s father, Fred, established. The couple had two daughters, Hazel and Shirley. In the late 1930s, Poe sold the homestead farm to Montana Power and moved to Locust Street in the lower Rattlesnake. Forrest H. Poe died November 4, 1993 in Missoula, Montana.
In 1926, a group of investors organized the Red Lodge Canning Company in Red Lodge, Montana, and hired M.H. Mann as the manager. He became president of the company, and later the largest stockholder. His son, Blaine W. Mann, took over management of the company after M.H. retired.
The company operated canneries in Red Lodge and in Stevensville, Montana. Products canned included corn, peas, and beans from the Red Lodge and Stevensville, Montana areas. The company operated a beer distribution division, sometimes identified as Rocky Mountain Distributing Company, from 1950 to 1958. This division held distribution contracts with several brewing companies, local and national, for Carbon and Stillwater counties in Montana.
Clifton R. Merritt was born in November 1919 in the Prickly Pear Valley (now known as the Helena Valley) of Montana. He grew up on the cattle ranch his grandfather settled in the 1890s near the Gates of the Wilderness Mountains along the upper Missouri River. In his youth he was plagued by illness including polio and a triple heart valve leakage at age 15. Despite these physical ailments, Merritt was an avid hunter, fisherman, and hiker, often enjoying these activities with his twin brother, Don.
Clif attended college at Carroll College in Helena, Montana taking courses in liberal arts and sociology. After leaving Carroll, Merritt moved to Kalispell, Montana, and worked for the Bureau of Employment Security and Montana State Employment Service. He rose to Field Supervisor for the Bureau of Employment Security which involved hiring, training, and supervising of over 150 employees in nine (or more) field offices. Merritt held this position from 1953-1964.
During his time in Kalispell, Merritt helped found the Montana Wilderness Association in 1957. He also served in various positions for the Montana Wildlife Federation from 1950 to 1964. With these organizations, Merritt was a leader in getting the Montana Stream Preservation Act adopted and halting the establishment of the Spruce Park and Glacier View dams on the Flathead River, as well as spearheading the movement to get the 15,000 acre Jewel Basin Hiking Area established.
In 1964, Clifton Merritt became director of field services for The Wilderness Society. He began his work in Washington, DC, lobbying for the establishment of the Wilderness Act of 1964. Believing that the wilderness movement needed to garner the support of local citizens in order to add areas to the National Wilderness Preservation System, Merritt established The Wilderness Society’s Western Regional Office in Denver, Colorado, in 1966. In the Regional Office, Merritt trained and supervised a 15-person professional staff of natural resource specialists and field representatives stationed throughout the West. Through the efforts of Merritt and his staff, working closely with local groups, millions of acres were added to the National Wilderness Preservation System. Among those added were the Scapegoat, Absaroka-Beartooth, and River of No Return Wildernesses in Montana and the Weminuche, Flat Tops, and Eagles Nest Wildernesses in Colorado. After an organizational shakeup and upon hearing of the planned closing of the Regional Office, Merritt resigned from the Wilderness Society in 1978.
In 1979, Merritt, Sally Ranney, and Jerry Mallet, seeing a need left by the closing of The Wilderness Society’s Regional Office, formed The American Wilderness Alliance (known after 1983 as American Wildlands) based in Denver, Colorado. The organization worked with conservation groups throughout the Rocky Mountain West to preserve public lands for wildlife habitat and recreation. The American Wilderness Alliance was instrumental in getting the 161,000 acre Elkhorn National Wildlife Management Area established in Montana as well as ensuring the passage of the Colorado Wilderness Bill which gave wilderness designation to 1.4 million acres of public lands. In addition to serving as executive director, Merritt also edited the organization’s Wild America magazine and wrote and edited its On the Wild Side newsletter.
In 1984, Clifton Merritt returned to Montana and settled in the Bitterroot Valley. He still maintained the executive directorship of American Wildlands and the organization relocated to Bozeman, Montana, later that year. In 1990, Merritt stepped back from the executive directorship and became associate executive director. It was in 1990 that Merritt began the Corridors of Life Program. The Program used Geographic Information Systems to map wildlife migration corridors between roadless areas and established wilderness areas. As of 2009, American Wildlands’ Corridors of Life Program continues to work to restore and maintain wildlife corridors.
In 1998, at age 79, Clifton Merritt stepped down as associate executive director of American Wildlands. Though no longer in a leadership role at the organization, Merritt continued to support wilderness and environmental initiatives as a member of the organization he had helped found. He also continued to support local wilderness issues through membership with the organization Friends of the Bitterroot and continued membership with the Montana Wilderness Association and Montana Wildlife Federation.
Clifton Merritt had been a prolific writer all his life and his retirement afforded him more time for this interest. He began to pen his memoirs of the wilderness movement, which he titled Beyond the Roads. He also began work on a history of his grandfather’s settlement in the Prickly Pear Valley which he called I Remember my Grandfather. Merritt died on August 12, 2008 at the age of 89.
Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) is a women's organization with three objectives: historical preservation, educational pursuits, and patriotic endeavors. The DAR image is one of service to home, country, and God. DAR works to preserve the heritage of the United States through historic tours, restorations and markers, museums, and genealogical research. They emphasize education through citizenship classes, youth development, programs and announcements on TV and radio, DAR-approved schools, student scholarship and loan funds, and patriotic publications. To be a member, one must be at least eighteen years of age and in direct lineal descent of a man or woman who served in the armed forces or as a civil officer in one of the colonies or states, was a recognized patriot, or was an individual who gave material aid in the fight for American independence. The Montana state society DAR began in 1894, and the Bitter Root chapter, which formed the bulk of this collection, organized in 1919 with twelve charter members.
Barbara Asenath Corcoran was born on April 12, 1911 in Hamilton, Massachusetts. She was the only child of John and Annah Corcoran. She graduated from Wellesley College in 1933 and received a Master of Arts degree in English literature from the University of Montana in Missoula in 1955. Following her graduation from Wellesley, she worked for the Federal Writer's Project and then the Navy during World War II. She also worked in advertising, for various theaters, as a playwright, in the story department at CBS television and for a celebrity news service in Hollywood, California. She also taught English at various institutions in Colorado, Kentucky, and California.
Throughout her career, Corcoran wrote articles and short stories, publishing them in newspapers and magazines. Her first children's novel, Sam was published in 1967. She left teaching to write full-time in 1969. A prolific author, she also published under the pseudonyms Gail Hamilton and Paige Dixon. Corcoran became known as a children's and young adult writer, publishing over 70 novels and earning both the William Allen White Award and the Pacific Northwest Booksellers Award. She moved back to Missoula, Montana in the early 1970s where she lived and worked until her death on November 9, 2003.
The Native American Studies (NAS) Program began in the summer of 1970. It was founded with the intention “to promote better understanding between the native peoples of this country and all peoples,” and to “develop and foster understanding and acceptance of the Indian/Non-Indian relationships.” Henrietta Whiteman was the first full time program director. NAS supports community and university Native American projects and organizations, such as the Native American Cultural Institute, the Qua Qui and the Missoula Indian Alcohol and Drug Services, Upward Bound, the Kyi-Yo Indian Club, and the Indian Law Clinic.
In March 1999, the State Board of Regents voted to change Native American Studies from program status to department status. NAS graduated its first majors as a Department in May 1999, though it had graduated majors the previous three years as a program.
Charles A. Martinson was born in Sweden around 1876 and came to America as a small boy. He operated the Missoula Ice and Cold Storage Company in Missoula, Montana from 1921 until his death in 1938 at the age of 62. Two years prior to his death, Charles Martinson was severely injured after becoming caught in machinery at the ice plant and never fully recovered. His wife Freda E. Martinson and sons Jack and Karl helped run the company and continued its operation after Charles’ death. Charles A. Martinson and wife Freda Martinson also had a daughter, Jean Gies, married to Anthony Gies of Lewistown, Montana. Freda Martinson was born in 1883 and came to Missoula in 1900, where she resided most of her life. She was visiting Portland at the time of her death in 1958. Jack Martinson enlisted in the Air Force in 1941 and received his commission in 1943. He was a second lieutenant and co-pilot of a B-29 when he was killed during an air raid over Japan in 1945. Anthony Gies also served in the war as a medical technician and was awarded a Bronze Star and an Oak Leaf Cluster in 1945.
The Missoula Ice and Cold Storage Company was a retail and wholesale ice and cold storage company from 1921-1958. They supplied ice for ice boxes before more modern refrigerators were common in homes. Ice was cut in blocks from ponds in the Rattlesnake area north of Missoula and stored in sheds with sawdust during the warmer months. The company grew in technology and in 1940 they were able to quick-freeze 1,000 pounds of bread for future consumption by the Forest Service firefighters. This was a huge success because Missoula was experiencing a labor shortage at the time and bakers were unable to meet sudden demands of hundreds of pounds of bread. It was impossible to store bread for more than a day or two before it was discovered that bread kept very well frozen and thawed in good condition. The Missoula Ice Company and the Martinson family home were located on Front Street.
A.F. Graeter and Company dredged gold in Bannack, Montana, during the late 1890s through the early 1900s. Bannack, originally part of the Idaho Territory, began as a small mining community in 1862. In 1864 Bannack experienced a boom in population after being named the capital of the newly created Montana Territory. Prospectors flocked to Bannack as the area gained a national reputation for its gold deposits. As the town grew, mining companies moved into the area bringing large dredging machinery. These early dredges were boat-like structures equipped with buckets attached to a pulley system. The buckets scooped up gravel from the riverbed and deposited it into a sluice box located on the dredge; the sluice box retained the gold-bearing sediments. This system was the primary method for mining gold from 1895 to 1905. The A.F. Graeter and Company began dredging for gold in the Marysville area near Bannack on April 14, 1897. A fairly large operation, A.F. Graeter and Company, boasted the third largest dredge in the area. The company was financed under the Bannack Dredging Company but operated under local direction. The business operated until 1902, then closed until F.B. Felt, a businessman from Chicago, purchased the business in early 1906. The company was financially lucrative but was permanently dismantled in the fall of 1906.
Marie C. Siedentopf was born on June 19, 1892 in Germany to William and Else Siedentopf. She had one younger brother, William. The family immigrated to the United States in 1906 and settled in Miles City, Montana where they owned a dairy farm.
Siedentopf would attend Custer County High School and the State University of Montana (now the University of Montana) in Missoula. She graduated from the university in the spring of 1917 with degrees in German and biology. After graduating, she stayed in Montana for several years but eventually worked as a librarian in Pasadena, California and Phoenix, Arizona. For a time, Siedentopf lived with her college friend, Dr. Irma Wilson, a professor of Spanish at Arizona State University.
Marie Siedentopf died in Burlingame, California on October 4, 1981. She is buried in Phoenix, Arizona.
Roy A. Phillips served many years with the U. S. Forest Service. He was supervisor of the St. Joe, Nez Perce, Kaniksu and Custer National Forests. In 1942 he left the Nez Perce Forest to work at the experimental rubber plantation in California. He returned to the Forest Service after the war and retired from the Custer National Forest in 1951.
Missoula School District No. 1 provides K-8 (elementary and middle school) education in Missoula, Montana.
Rhoda Richardson was born on May 12, 1892, in Butte, Montana, to Charles and Annie Brown Richardson. Her father was in charge of W.A. Clark's logging enterprises in Butte, Montana. When Richardson was twelve years old, the family moved to Lothrop, Montana. She attended high school in Missoula. Around 1921, she permanently moved to Missoula, Montana. For several years she worked as an office clerk at Northern Pacific Railroad. She was a member of the Episcopal Church of the Holy Spirit, the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks, and Chapter AT, PEO. Richardson died on December 6, 1978, in Missoula, Montana.
The White Pine Mill, owned by Patrick Whalen, was located in or near the small town of White Pine, Montana, which was about 115 miles northwest of Missoula Montana. The mill sold lumber within the state and to businesses in Idaho, North Dakota, and Minnesota. The proximity of the Northern Pacific Railroad and the Clark Fork River made such far-ranging sales possible. While the mill seemed to thrive between 1904 and 1907, it no longer existed under that name by 1910. By 1913 Patrick Whalen listed his occupation as well driller and his wife, Anna C. Whalen, owned the general store and was the White Pine postmaster.
Esther Ada Naylor was born in Cimarron, Kansas on May 11, 1910. Her family moved to Crow Agency, Montana in 1906. She attended the University of Montana-Missoula from 1930 to 1931 and received her teaching certification. Naylor taught at several schools in Big Horn County, Montana. On June 7, 1934, she married Joseph Torske of Hardin, Montana. The couple would have four children and raise them on their farm near Hardin. Joseph passed away in 1970; Esther Ada died in 1995.
Edward Boos was born in Kentucky on April 1, 1877. His family moved to Helena, Montana, while he was in grade school. He attended the University of Montana in Missoula, Montana in 1896 but did not complete a degree. In that same year Boos began working as a freelance correspondent for several newspapers in the Missoula area. During the summer of 1897 Boos accompanied the U.S. Army 25th Infantry Bicycle Corps on its experimental overland trip from Fort Missoula to St. Louis, Missouri. The company traversed 1,900 miles over difficult terrain and through taxing weather conditions in an attempt to prove that bicycles could replace horses for troop transport and reconnaissance. Boos submitted accounts of the expedition as they traveled. His accounts were prepared for the Daily Missoulian, but some were also published by newspapers along the route and a few were subsequently reprinted by national and international newspapers.
After the Bicycle Corps expedition Boos continued to produce photographs for western Montana newspapers. Sometime around 1900 he purchased his own camera and began photographing people and landscapes in the Missoula and Flathead valleys. Boos was particularly interested in recording life among the Kootenai, Salish and Pend'Oreille families of the Flathead Reservation as the 20th century began. He conducted a series of photographic portrait sessions at various sites across the reservation, mostly completed between spring and fall of 1905. According to a 1935 newspaper story, many of these portraits were developed at night under a canvas cover so the photographer could share the portraits directly with his subjects. Throughout the time period Boos continued to photograph landscapes and events in the Missoula and Flathead Lake areas.
In 1906 Boos accepted an advertising manager position with the Missoula Mercantile Company (MMS) and married Annie Hammond, cousin of MMC co-owner Andrew Hammond. Edward Boos ended his newspaper work but continued to periodically take photographs. Boos remained with the MMC for the next thirty-one years. In September 1935 an "Indian Jubilee" celebration was held in St. Ignatius, Montana. This event was the first public exhibition and print sale of Boos' Flathead Reservation portraits. Edward H. Boos died of a heart attack on September 26, 1937.
Chester Robert Huntley was born in Cardwell, Montana, on December 10, 1911. His parents, Percy "Pat" and Blanche Huntley, claimed a homestead on 960 acres of land near Saco in northern Montana. Percy Huntley was a former railroad telegrapher and Blanche was a schoolteacher. The Huntleys built a one-room schoolhouse on their land so Chet could stay close to home and help work the farm. The early 1920s was a very difficult period for wheat farmers in eastern Montana and Percy returned to a telegraphy position with the Great Northern Railroad. The Huntleys sold their Saco homestead in 1924 and the family moved frequently around southern Montana until 1926. In that year they settled in Whitehall, Montana, where Chet graduated from high school in 1929. Although he began his education at Montana State College in Bozeman with plans to become a physician, Huntley left that school in 1932 when he won a scholarship to study oratory at the Cornish School of Arts in Seattle. The experience altered his career plans, and he graduated from the University of Washington in 1934 with a degree in speech and drama.
During his senior year in Seattle, Huntley began working at radio station KPCB where his duties included advertising sales, news writing, and announcing. This job soon led to reporting positions at other radio stations: KHO in Spokane, Washington; KGW in Portland, Oregon; and KFI in Los Angeles. In 1939 Huntley joined the staff of KNX, the CBS Radio affiliate in Los Angeles. At KNX he began writing and producing short news commentary programs. Huntley continued to pursue news commentary projects under various titles throughout his broadcasting career. From 1951 to 1955 he worked for ABC Radio and Television in Los Angeles. Early in 1955, he was hired by the NBC Pacific Division to work as West Coast commentator and reporter for the Today show. In June 1955, NBC transferred him to their New York headquarters with the promise of a major news program.
His first major national assignment came in 1956 when he covered the Republican and Democratic national conventions with David Brinkley. The pairing drew the highest ratings among the three national networks for convention coverage. In October NBC chose the two men to co-anchor the network's fifteen-minute weekday evening news program. The program had an innovative format with Huntley reporting from New York and Brinkley from Washington DC. In 1963 the Huntley-Brinkley Report became one of the first thirty-minute network news programs. During its fourteen-year tenure the Huntley-Brinkley Report was one of the most professionally recognized and highly rated news programs on television, eventually winning seven Emmy and two Peabody awards. Both Brinkley and Huntley received numerous individual broadcasting awards. Huntley was also involved with several other news programs at NBC. During the late 1950s and early 1960s, he edited and narrated a series of Sunday evening news broadcasts. Variously titled Outlook, NBC Kaleidoscope, and Chet Huntley Reporting, the program presented expanded commentary on various news events and issues. Through most of the 1960s he also wrote and narrated a five-minute NBC radio program of editorial commentary titled Chet Huntley's Perspective on the News, with a weekend equivalent named Emphasis: Plain Talk.
Throughout his career Huntley caused controversy by blurring the lines between news reporting and political commentary. He was a vocal critic of Senator Joseph McCarthy and entertainment industry anti-communism activists. His commentary programs spoke out against internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II, advocated school integration in Little Rock, Arkansas, and critiqued the presidency of Richard M. Nixon. Huntley defended his commentary programs by declaring that he never allowed his opinions to influence newscasts; however, one industry critic accused him of editorializing with his eyebrows during the Huntley-Brinkley Report. Huntley precipitated other controversies. As the owner of a Montana cattle ranch, Huntley recorded commercials and accepted speaking engagements to promote the beef industry. These activities generated profuse criticism from other professionals concerned about maintaining the image of broadcasting objectivity and integrity. He caused a rift with David Brinkley in 1967 when Huntley crossed an American Federation of Television and Radio Artists' picket line claiming that news anchors did not belong in the same union as "actors, singers, and dancers."
During the height of his NBC broadcasting career Huntley wrote a memoir of his Montana youth. Random House published The Generous Years: Remembrances of a Frontier Boyhood in 1968. He retired from NBC on July 31, 1970. For the final broadcast of the Huntley-Brinkley Report, Huntley initiated the team's signature closing with the words "Good night, David." However, Brinkley altered form with his response "Good-bye, Chet." Before signing off Huntley addressed a final statement to the television audience, "Be patient and have courage, there will be better and happier news some day, if we work at it."
Huntley met his first wife, Ingrid Eleanor Rolin, while living in Seattle. They were married in 1936, had two daughters, and divorced in 1959. Huntley met his second wife, Lewis Tipton "Tippy" Stringer, in 1959. Tippy was a weather announcer for the DC NBC affiliate. They had no children. Huntley stayed active in retirement, broadcasting commentaries, recording commercials for American Airlines, and contracting with the airline to sponsor a new PBS program The American Experience, a series for which Huntley frequently narrated.
Big Sky, Montana, was Huntley's biggest post-retirement project, both in terms of personal investment and financial scale. The project started as a 15,000-acre resort in the Gallatin Valley of south central Montana that eventually became a permanent community. The primary corporation directing Big Sky development was Chrysler Realty, a conglomeration co-funded by Chrysler Motor Corporation, Conoco Oil, Burlington Northern Railroad, Montana Power Co. and Northwest Airlines. The project included one of the first privately owned ski resorts in the United States. Huntley died of cancer March 20, 1974, in Bozeman, Montana, three days before the opening ceremonies for Big Sky.
George McVey was born in 1897 and died in 1973. The long-time editorial director for Montana Standard-Post Publishing, moved to Butte, Montana, after serving in the Army of Occupation during World War I. McVey lived and worked in Butte with his wife, Marie, as a writer for the Montana Post and Standard for over forty years until his retirement in 1964. He was named editorial director for the paper in 1955. McVey often wrote columns about Butte's lively history and, in 1969, collected his stories for a book titled "Butte: Richest Hill on Earth."
The Mansfield Center for Pacific Affairs was founded in 1980 to encourage strong understanding and improved relations between the western United States and the nations of the Pacific Rim, in recognition of the outstanding work of Mike Mansfield in international relations in the Pacific. The Center was funded by the Mansfield Foundation and maintained offices at University of Montana's Maureen and Mike Mansfield Library, in Washington, DC, and in Tokyo. It planned an administrative and conference facility on Flathead Lake in western Montana, but was unable to construct this facility. It sponsored the Mike Mansfield Fellowship program, publications, and symposia on contemporary issues, and focused programs on public affairs and commerce, the humanities, and the arts.
In 2003 the board of the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation voted to change the name of the Mansfield Center for Public Affairs to the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, as the two operated as a single legal entity.
Maurine Clow was the longtime Associate Dean of Students at The University of Montana. She was born in Cavalier, North Dakota, in 1908. She had a bachelor’s and master’s degree in English literature and a Ph.D. in clinical psychology, all from Stanford University. She was Associate Dean of Women at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, from 1939 to 1944. She served as The University of Montana Associate Dean of Students from 1946 until her retirement in 1973. She belonged to the Delta Gamma social sorority for over 50 years. She died in Missoula, Montana, in 1986.
Montana State University (now The University of Montana) took control over the Miss Montana Pageant in 1947, when the Associated Women students accepted the franchise to send their contestant to the Miss America Pageant in Atlantic City, New Jersey. In 1947, Carol Chaffin was selected as Miss Montana and went onto compete in the national competition. Dr. Maurine Clow coordinated the Miss Montana committees with the chairmen, contestants, and students. She was also Miss Montana’s chaperone to the Miss America Pageant.
The Miss Montana State University Pageant was first held in 1959. Its first winner was Patti Jo Shaw of Deer Lodge, Montana. Miss Montana State University winners went onto compete in the Miss Montana competition.
Stuart W. Conner is a graduate of the University of Montana School of Law (1949) and worked as a lawyer in private practice in Billings, Montana, from 1955-1986. He served on the board of the Montana Historical Society from 1987-1993, including two years as its president. Stuart is a founding member of the Montana Archaeological Society, helped to establish the journal "Archaeology in Montana," and has authored numerous site surveys and articles. In 2002 he received an honorary doctorate of letters in Anthropology from Montana State University in Bozeman. In 2011 he received the Montana State Preservation Award for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Archaeology in recognition of his dedication to recording and preserving archaeological artifacts and sites.
William R. Pierce was born August 13, 1915 in Topeka, Kansas. He earned a bachelor's degree in Forestry at the University of Washington and then worked as a "gandy dancer" (section hand) for the Santa Fe Railway. From there he joined the Border Patrol and worked in New Mexico before being transferred to the internment camp at Fort Missoula, Montana. He then enlisted with the Navy. Pierce earned a Master's Degree in Forest Management from Yale University in 1947. He was hired by the United States Forest Service as a district ranger at Orofino, Idaho then moved on to Thompson Falls and Noxon, Montana. Pierce earned a Ph.D. in Forest Management from the University of Washington in 1958. He taught Forestry at the University of Montana in Missoula from 1955 until he retired in 1981.
William Pierce married Joann Geddes Randall in 1943 and they had two children, Patricia (1944) and John (1948). He died on October 9, 1996 in Gig Harbor, Washington.
Adolph August Hoehling was a writer and military historian. He worked as an editor, journalist, and author. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II, and it was his experience there as a lieutenant commander of the Armed Guard on merchant vessels that provided inspiration for his memoir, The Fighting Liberty Ships. He published at least thirty titles of historical non-fiction, focusing on the Civil War, the Great War, and World War II
Donald J. Schofield was born December 19, 1921 in West Falls Church, Virginia. He attended Michigan State College from 1940 to 1941. In the summer of 1941, he served with the U.S. Forest Service fire crew stationed at Ninemile Camp Menard in Western Montana (then Nine Mile) immediately after its transition from the Civilian Conservation Corps to the U.S. Forest Service. During World War II, Schofield served in the 8th U.S. Army Air Corps, in the 392nd Bombardment Group, as a navigator on the B-24 Liberator Bombers. He was stationed in England and flew missions to Germany and earned numerous awards and citations for his service.
After World War II, Donald Schofield attended the University of Montana (then Montana State University) School of Forestry starting in the year 1946 and graduating with a Bachelor of Science degree in Forestry in 1948. He was actively involved in the Forestry Club, the Forestry Kaimin, and the Forester's Ball, serving as the Chief Push for the 31st Forester's Ball in 1948. After graduating from the University of Montana, Schofield was employed by the U.S. Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management from 1948 to 1976. He then served on the Board of Commissioners for Jackson County in Oregon from 1978 to 1980. Donald Schofield died January 23, 1994 in Ashland, Oregon. Dr. William H. Harrison was a physcian for the United States Indian Service. He authored a number of articles, especially in journals of ophthalmology, about the problem of trachoma among Native Americans. He is listed in the Missoula, Montana, city directories for 1913 and 1915 as a partner in Smith, Pease and Harrison, Physicians and Surgeons.
Jack R. Lincke was the author of Jenny Was No Lady. He was born in Butte, Montana, on October 10, 1903. Lincke began flying the JN-4D after World War I and quickly became hooked on aviation. He was a member of the OX-5 Club, named after the type of engine found in the JN-4D. Lincke worked as a journalist and as an aviator for the Army, Navy, and National Chinese Air Force. He also owned a public relations business in Pasadena, California. Jenny Was No Lady was published in 1970, after years of research that Lincke began in 1927. His other published work is entitled Aircraft Manual for Inspection, Maintenance, and Repair.
The Dean of Women position was started at the University of Montana in 1907 with Mary Stewart as Dean. Originally, the Dean supervised the students at the university who lived at the women’s dormitory. The Dean of Women became responsible for the administration of the activities, social life, and counseling of the university’s women students. Harriet Rankin Sedman was appointed Dean of Women in 1921 and served in the position until 1935. Sedman initiated several campus organizations and traditions, including Mortar Board, Spur, and Lantern Parade and organized the Association of Women Students and Big Sister movement. Mary Elrod Ferguson served as Dean of Women from 1935 until 1946.
Maurine Clow became Associate Director of Student Personnel Services, a position which superseded that of Dean of Women, in 1946. The title of the position changed to Associate Dean of Students in 1948, although the job responsibilities did not change. Clow became advisor to student organizations that were once the responsibility of the Dean of Women, such as the Spurs, Junior Sponsors, Alpha Lambda Delta, the Mortar Board, the Miss Montana Program, and many others.
On November 1, 1861 twenty-four year old George Wirt enlisted in Brackett's Battalion of the Minnesota Calvary. Organized on a volunteer basis, the battalion traveled from Iowa to Minnesota to assist with peacekeeping duties between the Native Americans and the white settlers. George Wirt's diary focuses on the Indian Campaign of 1864; an intensified effort by the federal government to provide protection for settlers traveling west. In June 1864 the government sent a series of dispatches to tribes in the North Dakota, Montana, and Idaho territories in an attempt to create a treaty promoting a peaceful coexistence between Native American tribes and the incoming settlers. Those who did not respond to the treaty were considered hostile. The battalion based itself at Fort Sully, near present day Pierre, South Dakota. Wirt belonged to Company B under the direction of captains D. Mortimer West, William Smith, and John A. Reed. The troop's duties primarily consisted of conducting daily scouting excursions and accompanying caravans of settlers traveling westward. George Wirt served in the battalion until June 1, 1866 and eventually attained the rank of sergeant. Brackett's Battalion continued its work in the west through 1866.
Eudora Piercy was born on October 19, 1912. She was born on a farm near Bainville, Montana, to Sallie and George Piercy. Fulkerson spent her early years in Bainville and graduated from the The University of Montana-Missoula (then Montana State University) in 1935 with a bachelor's degree in Home Economics. She moved to Tacoma in the late 1930s. In 1942 she married Oliver A. Fulkerson. She worked as a Dietician at Tacoma General Hospital for more than 25 years and retired as the Head Dietician in 1972.
Eudora Fulkerson died on March 3, 2011 at age 99 in Tacoma, Washington.
Judith (Judi) Larson Chapman was born in Pierre, South Dakota on July 23, 1941. She graduated from St. Olaf College in 1963 and from The University of Montana with a degree in Social Work in 1974. Chapman served as an assistant to United States Representative Pat Williams of Montana’s 1st Congressional District from 1979-1991. As an assistant to Congressman Williams, Chapman dealt primarily with issues of women’s equality and Native American interests.
After her work with Representative Williams, Chapman was a lobbyist working largely with Native American tribes, including the Blackfeet Tribe (Montana) and the Havasupai Tribe (Arizona). She also conducted a number of lobbying workshops aimed at promoting Native American interests. In addition, Chapman held positions with the Administration of Native American Tribes, the Indian Head Start Program, and on the Monitoring and Evaluation team for Bureau of Indian Affairs schools.
Chapman was active with the Democratic Party, working on get-out-the-vote campaigns for the 1992 Presidential election and serving as a delegate to the 1996 Democratic National Convention. Chapman also served as a Missoula Democratic Central Committee Precinctwoman and was on a number of local boards related to environmental and Native American issues, including the Missoula City-County Health Board, the Missoula Air Pollution Control Board, the Missoula Water Quality Board, and the Indian Center.
Chapman passed away on July 19, 2000 in Missoula having battled brain cancer. She is survived by her daughters Tonia Anell Johnson Chapman Bossell and Varen Kay Johnson Chapman.
Mining began in Montana in the 1850s, when traders for the Hudson's Bay Company discovered gold near present-day Deer Lodge. Little came of these early diggings but the territory continued to attract hopefuls and the first big strike took place near Bannack in 1862. In the next two years, gold was discovered at Virginia City and Last Chance Gulch in the heart of present day Helena. A dozen years after the first discoveries in Helena, Thomas Cruse filed for the claim on the Drumlummon. His discovery gave birth to the town of Marysville and one of the first rich mines in Montana. While the wealth produced by the Drumlummon pales in comparison with the later copper giants in Butte, the discovery of rich gold and silver deposits provided a tremendous boost to the Montana Territory's economy and spurred national and international investment.
The claim for this vein of gold and silver ore was filed by Thomas Cruse in 1876. He drove a tunnel into the vein over the next several years but reportedly went only 500 feet. In 1880, Cruse convinced William and Charles Mayger to construct a five stamp mill for processing ore from the mine. The ore was processed for a time and then a disagreement over royalty payments led Cruse to buy out the Mayger's interest in the mill. Word of the rich ore being mined at the Drumlummon reached beyond the borders of the Montana Territory. The Joint Stock Association, a London based company, organized to buy the Drumlummon Mine from Thomas Cruse in 1882. The following year they purchased the mine and created the Montana Mining Company, Limited. The company paid Thomas Cruse $1.63 million for the property and allowed him to retain a one-sixth ownership in the mine. Cruse used the profits to establish a bank in Helena and went on to be a successful and wealthy businessman.
The Montana Mining Company installed George Attwood as manager of the mine. He did a poor job and resigned after his first year when profits did not meet expectations. He was replaced by R.T. Bayliss, a capable manager, in 1884. The arrival of competent management coincided with a sharp rise in profits. Bayliss was replaced for a year by Henry Bratnober before returning to manage the mine through 1891. During this period almost 500,000 tons of ore were removed yielding $9.2 million. A feud between the Montana Mining Company and the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company erupted in 1889. The dispute centered on ownership of a vein being mined by both companies. The St. Louis Company filed suit to halt the Montana Mining Company's miners and the resulting apex litigation lasted until 1911. The suit ultimately reached the Supreme Court of the United States and cost nearly $400,000 in legal fees. The costs of the suit, the court decision in favor of the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company, and declining ore values at the Drumlummon forced the Montana Mining Company to sell the property at sheriff's sale in 1911. The stockholders of the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company received an impoverished mine in disrepair for all their litigation efforts. Management of the property shifted to William Mayger, the St. Louis Company's superintendent. After fierce corporate infighting, he was replaced in 1913 by Harry Quinby. The new manager lasted only briefly before he was ousted by William Mayger. For the next 20 years stockholder squabbles and failing finances kept the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company on the brink of collapse. During the final years there were constant shutdowns and stockholder assessments. The mines and mills finally closed in 1933, ending one of the richest mineral strikes in Montana history.
Gladys Costello was born in Malta, Montana, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Robinson, who were among the first settlers in the area. She graduated from the University of Montana School of Journalism and maintained a long time interest in writing with a special focus on regional history. In addition to co-authoring Top o' the Mountain: Charley Whitcomb, Mining Man, some of her stories were published in The Golden Era of the Little Rockies. Gladys Costello lived in Zortman, Montana, which is in Phillips County, for most of her adult life until her death on July 16, 1978.
Dorothy Whitcomb Klimper, born in Zortman, was one of two surviving children of Charley and Katie B. Whitcomb. She married Max E. Klimper, mining engineer, educator and sportsman. By 1976 she lived in Stanford, Montana. Costello's writing skills and Klimper's memorabilia and reminiscences were combined for the book Top o' the Mountain: Charley Whitcomb, Mining Man.
Teddie Martin was born November 16, 1883 on a farm near Preskisle, Aroostook County, Maine, the fourth child of thirteen born to Vital and Ozita (Leveque) Martin. He arrived in Montana as a child in 1886 when his father, who had come to Montana in 1880 and spent two years in Deer Lodge County in the lumber business, brought the family and became a rancher near Choteau, Montana. About 1889, the family moved to Clinton, Missoula County, Montana, where Teddie spent his childhood and early youth on the old home ranch.
At the age of fourteen he left home to work for Western Lumber Company in Lothrop, Montana, where he remained for eight years before moving to Alberton, Montana, and establishing a residence there in 1907. That same year, he acquired a loan from two bankers in Missoula, Montana, and bought a general merchandise store in Alberton which he operated until a fire destroyed it and his home in December 1928. Martin rebuilt both, and the business continued.
A stalwart member of the Republican Party, member of the Methodist Episcopal Church, affiliated with several bodies of the Masonic fraternities, and holding membership in the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks (BPOE), Fraternal Order of Eagles (FOE), and the Independent Order of Odd Fellows (IOOF), Martin was a leading citizen and merchant in Alberton.
He married Inez Haight July 22, 1905; their marriage brought them one child, Teddie Jr.
Soroptimist (a name coined by combining the Latin words soror "sister" and optimus "best", and can be taken to mean "best for women") was founded in 1921 in Alameda County, California. Montana’s Soroptimist International of Missoula – South chapter chartered March 29, 1978. This branch began a variety of community service programs including assisting with the local battered woman’s shelter, scholarship pageants, and youth seminars. By 2005 the organization was no longer active.
Bob Brown was born in Missoula, Montana, on December 11, 1947, but grew up on his family's grain and cattle ranch near Whitefish, Montana. He obtained a bachelor's degree in history from Montana State University-Bozeman in 1970 and a master's degree in education from the University of Montana-Missoula in 1988. He spent two years in the Navy, from 1971 to 1972, and married Susan Stoeckig in 1975. They have two daughters. Over 27 years, he taught government, history, and economics at three high schools in western Montana, and coached speech and debate teams.
At the age of 22 Brown became one of the youngest Montanans ever elected to the state House of Representatives. He served two terms in the House and was elected to the Senate in 1974. He served in the Senate through 1996, when term limits prevented him from running again. He was Senate president in his legislative session. Brown became a lobbyist for a telephone company, aluminum plant, and the Montana university system for four years and then was elected Montana Secretary of State in 2000 with 51 percent of the vote in a four-way race. Brown began a campaign for governor in July 2003 and faced three opponents for the GOP nomination. He won with 39 percent of the vote, a 16-point margin over the second-place finisher, but lost the election to Democratic candidate Brian Schweitzer.
In January 2005 Bob Brown returned to The University of Montana when he joined the O’Connor Center for the Rocky Mountain West as a senior fellow. Creating this oral history collection from 2005-2010 is just one of the projects he undertook in that position.
Jay Carr came from northern Idaho to the railroad town of Taft, Montana, in August 1907 and entered the restaurant business there. Shortly after, he started a saloon in association with that restaurant, and in 1909 sold the saloon to Earl V. Peck, who was to become a longtime business partner. In July 1909 the restaurant was closed, and Carr prospected and worked in saloons and cafes in western Montana and northern Idaho. In 1910, he settled in Hamilton, Montana, and in 1911, he and Peck opened the Pure Food Cafe there. In 1912, the cafe closed, and Carr and Peck moved to Ronan where they operated the freighting and contracting firm of Carr & Peck, which soon branched into the logging business. In 1918, Carr left Ronan and moved to Tarkio. He was married to Alice F. Carr.
Otto A. Puutio was born on August 26, 1885 in Lohtaja, Finland. The Puutio family migrated from Hango, Finland, and arrived in New York on March 29, 1905. Otto Puutio settled in Red Lodge, Montana, in 1906. Otto became a coal miner and was a charter member of the United Mine Workers of America Local No. 1771.
Otto Puutio married Aino Hamalainen, also a Finnish immigrant, in early 1919. They had two children: Arlene and Elizabeth. The Puutios lived on Haggin Avenue in Red Lodge’s Finn Town. Ainto Puutio was a midwife in Red Lodge. Puutio left the mines at the beginning of the Depression and moved his family to a wheat ranch on Willow Creek. Puutio supplemented his ranching income working for the Works Progress Administration. Puutio died on June 20, 1950 in Red Lodge. Otto A. Puutio also used the name Otto A. Johnson.
Dee Calderwood Taylor was born on December 28, 1922 to Ephraim and Eunice Taylor in Coalville, Utah. He married Betty Powell and the couple would have two children, Mark and Betty Dee. Taylor joined the Air Corps Reserves in 1942 prior to attending college. He attended the University of Utah and studied anthropology, receiving his B.A. in 1951 and his M.A. in 1953. He attended the University of Michigan and earned his Ph.D. in 1957 and was hired as a professor of anthropology at the University of Montana-Missoula that same year.
Taylor was a prominent figure in the ethnology and archaeology of the Rocky Mountain Region and the Northern Plains. He became chair of the Department of Anthropology in 1985 and held the position until his death. An accomplished researcher, scholar, and instructor, he founded the Montana Archaeological Society and was active with the Society for American Archaeology, the Governor’s Advisory Committee for the Preservation of Historic Sites (Montana), the State Historical Preservation Office, the Montana Sites Advisory Council, the Montana Archaeological Resources Council, and the Montana Historical Society.
Dee Taylor passed away on March 6, 1991 of cardiac arrest.
Fred R. Meyer (1874-1939) was from Buffalo, New York. A butcher by trade, he was also known as an amateur photographer who traveled throughout the West between 1890 and 1915. According to the guide to the Fred R. Meyer photograph collection at the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian Archive Center, "it has...been suggested that he was associated in some way (perhaps as a clerk) with the Indian agencies that served the Apsáalooke, Pikuni, and Numakiki reservations. He apparently also photographed in Pine Ridge in 1907 and collected objects in Wyoming and Montana."
The Blackfoot Development Corporation of Lincoln, Montana, was incorporated on June 11, 1970. The stockholders included Charles Lane, Jr., Robert J. Garnett, and James R. Palmer. The organization was approved for land development, housing, construction, wholesale and retail operations, agriculture commodities, financial institutions, leasing, dealerships, and other franchises.
The Little Anaconda Mining Company was an organization in Carter, Mineral County, Montana, around 1890. It had no apparent affiliation with the Anaconda Copper Mining Company. Carter, Montana, was located about seventy miles north of Missoula, Montana, and ten miles from Iron Mountain at the site of present day Superior, Montana. The Iron Mountain Mine on Flat Creek, which mined silver, was the primary operation, but there were numerous other claims in the area. In 1903-1904, William Bryan, whose name appears in the ledger, was postmaster of Carter. By 1905, the post office had been dissolved and the site was renamed Keystone.
Catherine (Kay) Burnham was a clinical psychologist and close friend of Dorothy Johnson. The two women met while living in New York City and often traveled together. Dorothy Johnson dedicated The Hanging Tree to "Kay Burnham" and, according to Burnham's brother, Catherine helped select shooting locations for the film adaptation. Catherine Burnham died of a heart attack in June 1988.
The Anaconda claim was located in 1875. In 1881 Marcus Daly discovered the copper vein that began copper mining in Butte, Montana. The Anaconda Copper Mining Company was organized on June 18, 1895 in Butte and it dominated the early industrial history of Montana. In 1903 nearly three-quarters of the wage earners in the state were either directly or indirectly working for the company. In 1917 there was a general miners' strike, and much worker/owner tension stirred up by the war, the I.W.W., and the fear of sabotage. Both world wars created huge booms in production for the company. In 1945 Anaconda embarked on a program of expansion, rehabilitation, and improvement. New methods were introduced to increase the output of mines already in use. In April 1955 the company's name was changed to The Anaconda Company. Production of primary copper from company mines in 1959 totaled 980,399,000 pounds. From 1895 to 1960 the Butte mine had produced almost fifteen billion pounds of copper. The Anaconda Company shut down its operations in Butte in 1983.
Walter Tuchscherer graduated from Gonzaga in University, Spokane, Washington in 1909. Due to his interest in the family brewery business, he graduated from the Hantke's Brewer's School in Milwaukee in 1915. Walter was fluent in German, and was deployed to the Siberian front in 1918 to serve as a translator for the United States intelligence division. Returning to Anaconda, Montana, in 1919, Walter found the family brewery closed due to Prohibition. Walter became a co-owner of Washoe Coal, with his brother-in-law, R. A. Kelly, and married Maybelle Malloy on June 9, 1921.
In 1925, the Tuchscherer family became the owners of the Standard Drug store. Walter again returned to school, this time to the Capitol School of Pharmacy in Denver, Colorado. Walter passed the state boards in 1930 to become a pharmacist. When Prohibition ended, Walter returned to working at the Anaconda Brewery. Walter worked at the brewery during the days, which left his wife, Maybelle, to run the drug store in the day, and at night Walter attended to his pharmacist career. The Anaconda Brewery closed in 1958, where Walter returned to working at the pharmacy full-time. Walter died in 1960.
Gerald "Jerry" Stern was a ranger with the United States Forest Service. He was transferred to the Lincoln Ranger District in Montana on March 1, 1964.
Robert S. Fletcher was born in Forestville, New York, on November 3, 1900. After graduating from Forestville Free Academy, Fletcher went on to study history at Oberlin College. Upon graduating he earned his living teaching at a high school in Michigan, until be enrolled in the doctoral program in history at Harvard University. At Harvard, Fletcher studied with Frederick Jackson Turner, Edward Channing, and Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr. During these years he served as an Assistant in History at Harvard (1923-1924), an Instructor in History at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and an Assistant Professor of History at Tufts University (1926-1927). In 1925-1926 Fletcher was an Associate Agricultural Economist for the United States Department of Agriculture, where he produced a number of studies. Fletcher returned to Oberlin in 1927 as an assistant professor of history and he quickly developed a reputation as an outstanding and inspiring professor. While best known for his two-volume history of Oberlin College, Fletcher also published several articles on the history of the cattle industry in Montana. In 1959 Duke University Press published his book, Eureka: From Cleveland by Ship to California, 1849-1850. Robert Fletcher died suddenly at the age of fifty-nine after spending more than thirty years teaching at Oberlin.
Simon Rae Logan was born on April 29, 1885 in Rutherford County, North Carolina. He came with his parents to Montana in 1898 and for a time lived near Stevensville, Montana. He attended the University of Montana--Missoula for one year, but graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill with a B.A. in 1908. From 1909 to 1912, he ranched near Arlee, Montana. He was a manager of Theodore Roosevelt's Bull Moose campaign for Missoula County in 1912. In 1913, he was asked to become school superintendent of District 28, Missoula County, when it included a large area from Pablo to south of Arlee. He was a pioneer in the consolidation of one-room schools into centers that offered schooling through high school. He was also instrumental in the formation of the County and Village Teacher's Association in 1913; the group later became a department of the Montana Teacher's Association. He taught school and was a school administrator in Lake County and was school superitendent in Hardin, Montana, from 1919 to 1926. While there he pioneered methods of individual instruction and conducted short winter courses for adults. During those years he was a member of the Chamber of Commerce, the Executive Board of the Montana Farmer's Union, and the Legislative Committee of the Montana Teacher's Association. He led the fight for a graduated income tax to provide state support for public schools. This measure failed at the time, but gained support in later years.
He then became a school administrator in Winetka, Illinois, in 1926 and remained in that position for 21 years. He believed deeply in citizen responsibility in a democracy, and worked actively to promote democratic citizen education at the junior high school level. He was active in the Northern Illinois Superintendents' Round Table and headed a committee that studied and reported on conditions in the state's correctional schools. He also taught summer school at the University of Montana, Northwestern University, the University of Nevada, and Brigham Young University. As a longtime member of the Progressive Education Association, he was asked to address the International Education Association meeting in Nice, France.
He retired from school work to homestead at Charlo, Montana, where he raised cattle until he was 80 years old. He received distinguished service awards from the Lower Flathead Schoolmasters' Association and the University of Montana chapter of Phi Delta Kappa.
He was married to Frances Logan; they had five children: Herma Biermann, Eileen Hodges, Katherine Tugendhat, Ernest Logan, and Frank Logan. He died in February 1970. She was later married to Harold Guy Merriam; she died in 1993.
Robert (Roy) M. Cobban was born on May 13, 1859, in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, where he learned the lumber mill trade. Robert’s father, William S. Cobban, was born and raised in Aberdeen, Scotland. He moved with his family to Groveland, Massachusetts, where he met his wife, Mary Louise Hardy, whose parents were descendants of pilgrims who came over on the Mayflower. In the Kansas border disputes of 1852, William S. Cobban negotiated for the state of Missouri. He fought for the North in the Civil War until he was injured and discharged in 1864. After his injury, William S. Cobban returned to his lumber mill in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin.
After working at his father’s mill and attending school in Wisconsin, Roy Cobban headed to the West in 1880 where he homesteaded in western Montana and helped his brother, William F. Cobban, build a mill in Butte City in 1883. Roy Cobban was a foreman at the Montana Lumber and Produce Company until 1884, while his brother remained superintendent of the mill until 1886, when both sold out of the mill to devote all of their time to mining and real estate ventures in the area. William F. Cobban was very successful in the mining business, buying a mine with his business partner for $9,000 in 1890, and selling it six years later for $6 million. Several districts in Butte carried the Cobban name, reflecting Williams F. Cobban’s prominence in the city.
By 1886, Roy Cobban left the real estate business, sold the newspaper he owned in Butte, and focused all of his attention on his mine 15 miles north of the city. In December 1885, he began a correspondence with Alice Hardy of Groveland, Massachusetts, and by September 1886 they were engaged through the mail.
The Northwestern Live Stock Company was incorporated in Helena, Montana, in 1901 by John T. Murphy, A.L. Smith, J.P. Woolman, and John B. Turton to operate in Shonkin, Choteau County, Montana. The company was organized to acquire, raise, and sell sheep, cattle, horses, and other livestock. The president of the company until 1906 was John Murphy, who then disposed of his interest. In 1909, J.H. Evers entered the company and by 1951 was president of the company.
In 1954, J.B. Speer, a retired professor and controller for the University of Montana, was named chairman of the Montana Institute of the Arts local history group. He used this position to create interest in a local historical society. Small meetings of local "businessmen" who were interested in supporting the new society began in early 1954. The first large meeting of community members did not take place until April 17th of that year. Attendees elected Harry McCann as temporary chairman and J.B. Speer as temporary secretary of the new organization. The new society had representatives from area organizations including the Rotary, the Missoula Chamber of Commerce, the Missoula Public Library, the Lions Club, the University of Montana, the Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers, and the Hellgate Project. The members tasked the organization with the preservation of local landmarks and possibly establishing a regional archive at the public library. The society's stated purpose was "to aid in the discovery, collection and preservation of every variety of material illustrative of the history of Montana; such as letters, diaries, journals, memoranda, pioneer reminiscences, newspapers, account books, school and church registers, commemorative addresses, genealogies and biographies, photographs, pictures and paintings, aboriginal relics, material objects illustrating the life of pioneers, maps, histories and records of the counties of western Montana and of its cities, towns, villages and institutions." At the May 13, 1954 meeting, the chairman appointed a committee to draft a constitution and by-laws for the society. The organization adopted a 12 member board of directors, a one dollar fee for annual membership, and an annual meeting to be held the second Monday of October. By 1955, a board of directors was elected and Cyrile Van Duser took J.B. Speer's position as secretary.
After 1955, there is no record of the organization and there is no additional information available.
Henry P. Barringer was a U.S. Forest Service ranger stationed at Iron Mountain, Montana, with District #1. He fought fires during the 1910 fire season. Barringer lived at Iron Mountain with his wife, Evelyn, from at least 1909 through 1913.
Frederick William Voget, cultural anthropologist and American Indian ethnologist, was born in Salem, Oregon, on February 12, 1913. He was one of six children of Friedrich A. Voget, who emigrated from Germany to Oregon when he was 19, and Fay Isham, whose grandparents were Oregon pioneers. Voget was educated in Portland public schools, attended Reed College, and graduated from the University of Oregon. He attended graduate school at Yale University and received a Ph.D. in Anthropology in 1947. Fred served in the 71st Division of the U.S. Infantry from 1942 to 1947 and was honorably discharged as a Master Sergeant. He married Mary Kay Mee in 1942 and they had three daughters, Antoinette, Colleen, and Jane. Mrs. Voget worked as Dr. Voget's research assistant throughout their many years together.
Dr. Voget's fieldwork and doctoral dissertation subjects were the Crow Indians of Montana. His dissertation, The Shoshoni-Crow Sun Dance, was published in 1984 in the Civilization of the American Indians Series, University of Oklahoma Press, and is the first full-length authoritative treatment of the Crow Sun Dance. Holt Rinehart published A History of Ethnology, an earlier book, in 1975. Recent contributions to new books include the introduction to Old Man Coyote and the foreword to Yellowtail, Crow Indian Medicine Man. His most recent book, They Call Me Agnes, was a finalist for the Western Writers of America Spur Award for the best non-fiction book of 1995. They Call Me Agnes, the life story of Agnes Yellowtail Deernose, a Crow Indian woman, was written with the assistance of his wife, Mary Kay Mee.
Dr. Voget was the author of many articles, notable among them "The Osage Indians, Osage Research Report" (New York, London, 1974) and "Crow Sacred Numerology" published in the Plains Anthropologist in 1996. His articles are also published in the 1996 Encyclopedia of Cultural Anthropology sponsored by Yale University.
Fred Voget taught at McGill University in Montreal, the University of Arkansas, the University of Toronto, and Southern Illinois University. He was a visiting professor at Northwestern University and Portland State University. In 1966 he won a Canada Council Research Grant to work with the Six Nations tribes of Eastern Canada. He was a Fulbright Scholar to Germany in 1972 and returned there in 1979 as a visiting professor at the University of Munich. After his retirement as Professor Emeritus from Southern Illinois University, Fred returned to Portland where he continued to write and lecture. He was an adjunct professor at Portland State University and was a guest lecturer at the University of Oregon and Linfield College.
Since 1939 Dr. Voget devoted his life and his research to recording and preserving the culture and way of life of the Crow as it was and is. His contribution to the study of ethnology was intended to improve the lives of American Indians and to promote understanding and respect for the diversity of cultures in the world. He was an adopted member of the Crow Tribe and spent part of every summer with them in Montana. Fred W. Voget died on 8, 1997
Originally discovered by prospectors in search of placer gold, the rich sapphire-bearing ledge of Montana was located and claimed by three Montanans in 1896. The New Mine Sapphire Syndicate, based solely on the Yogo Sapphire District near Utica, Montana, in Judith Basin County, was incorporated in 1898. S.S. Hobson served as vice president, and Mathew Dunn and George A. Wells, both Great Falls residents, served respectively as president and secretary-treasurer. Soon after the turn of the century, the corporation came under the control of British investors and was to remain so until 1949. The Yogo mines operated profitably until 1927, when a flash flood destroyed the surface workings of the Syndicate's operation. After that, little was done to exploit the remaining sapphires. In 1956, Thomas Sidwell succeeded in purchasing the controlling interest in the Syndicate. Lack of capital hampered his operations until 1956-1957, when the Syndicate's stock was re-issued and some work resumed at the mine. Law suits, prior claims, poor management, and bad luck combined to ruin the renewed operations of the corporation, and the venture was bankrupt by 1961.
Barbara Evans was born in Cheyenne, Wyoming, in 1934. She moved with her family to Missoula, Montana, in 1940. She served as Missoula City Police Commissioner and served as a County Commissioner in Missoula County, Montana, for twenty-eight years. She began her political career in 1978, at the age of forty-four, as a member of the Republican Party. Some of her noted accomplishments as County Commissioner include her efforts to expand Reserve Street, support for the removal of the Milltown Dam, and work on numerous other land and infrastructural developments. In terms of political achievements, Evans is remembered as the first women elected to the Missoula County Commission and, in 1986, she was part of the first all-female county commission in the United States. Evans retired in 2007.
H.W. (Harold Wave) Whicker was born in Columbia City, Indiana in 1895. Whicker graduated from Indiana University before serving in World War I. Whicker relocated to the Pacific Northwest after the war and attended State Normal School at Cheney, which is currently known as Eastern Washington University. Attending school in Cheney, Whicker met his wife Meta. H.W. and Meta continued their education at State College of Washington in Pullman (now Washington State University). After graduating with a Bachelor's of Arts, Whicker taught English at State College before attending the University of Washington as a graduate student of English, History and Government. He continued in academia teaching at the University of Montana, the University of Maine, and the Naval Academy. By 1936, H.W. and Meta returned to the Pacific Northwest where they lived out their retirement. Whicker published one book length work titled Silver Strike: The True Story of Silver Mining in the Coeur d'Alenes, which is an account by William T. Stoll as recorded and edited by Whicker. Whicker also published a number of short stories and essays, including works in Frontier and Midland, Scribner's Magazine, and the North American Review. Whicker passed away in 1955 in Oak Knoll, California.
Charles E. and Alicia D. Conrad had three children, Charles Davenport “Charlie” (born in Ft. Benton, Montana, in 1882), Catherine “Kate” Conrad (born in Fort Benton in 1885), and Alicia Conrad (born in Kalispell in 1892).
Alicia Conrad first married Walter McCutcheon, an employee of the Conrad family-owned Kalispell Mercantile Company, in 1914. They had one daughter, Alicia Ann “Timmie,” in 1921. The marriage ended in divorce in 1924. Alicia’s second marriage, in February 1928, was to George Henry Campbell of Great Falls, Montana. The couple remained together until his death forty-five years later.
George Henry Campbell was born in 1890 to Mary L. Wardwell and Charles Henry Campbell of Westminster West, Vermont. Growing up on their ranch near Malta and moving into Great Falls for high school, George graduated from Yale’s Sheffield School of Engineering in 1910 and joined with his father as C. H. Campbell and Son, a central Montana land management firm. Volunteering in 1917-1918 he flew as a pursuit (fighter) pilot in the World War I Nieuport and Spad biplanes of the U. S. Army Signal Corps, Army Air Corps and American Expeditionary Force in France, earning charter membership in the Order of Daedalians and its Montana Chapter. After the war, he returned to the partnership with his father. Alicia Conrad and George Henry Campbell had one son, Charles Conrad Campbell, born in 1928. In 1933 the family moved back to Kalispell, Montana, where Alicia’s hereditary Conrad home was her primary residence until her donation of it to the city as a National Historical Site in 1974, seven years prior to her death at the age of eighty-eight in 1981. George Campbell died in 1973.
A new branch line of the Great Northern Railroad provided the impetus for founding Rexford, Montana in 1903. The Rexford Townsite Company dealt with the initial steps from legalities to laying out the streets and land sales. Five men owned two-thirds of the stock in this company. Leon N. Brown, the company secretary, became co-proprietor of Brown & Fewkes (general merchandise) in Rexford, Montana. Charles B. Kemp, a company director, owned substantial property in nearby Libby, Montana. Allen B. Johnston, a company director, moved to Libby, Montana, in 1892 and was active in merchandising, real estate, politics, and mining. Walter H. Griffin, a company director, owned an established and respected insurance and real estate company in Kalispell, Montana. George Francis Stannard, a company director and a partner of Griffin's since 1892, was born on the Island of Guernsey in the English Channel in 1860. Stannard, a notably successful Montana resident, dealt in insurance real estate, and mining as well as acquiring substantial property in the Flathead Valley.
Early citizens of Rexford, Montana, could travel by railroad or water as the town was near Kootenay Lake but Rexford was not connected to Libby, Montana, by a road until 1924. While the road must have brought changes to Rexford, the greatest change came in the late 1960s when the Corps of Engineers relocated the entire town above the old townsite which was covered with water by the reservoir created with the building of Libby Dam.
The Associated Students of The University of Montana (ASUM) is the university's student government organization. Founded in May of 1906, ASUM serves as a forum for students to express their needs to The University of Montana administration as well as to the Montana state government. From 1936-1965, the organization was known as the Associated Students of Montana State University (ASMSU) reflecting the name change of the university. In its early years ASUM operated a general store and the university bookstore; today one of its primary functions is the allocation of money to student groups through yearly student group requests and a once a year budgeting process.
David Bentzin earned his Master of Science degree in Geology from the University of Montana in 1960. Upon graduation, Bentzin moved to Casper, Wyoming, where he worked as a geologist for petroleum companies. In 1975, the Blackfeet Tribe of Montana brought suit against the United States alleging that the government was deficient in its management of the tribe’s oil and gas resources. The tribe believed that the United States government had permitted the allotment of the Blackfeet Reservation to individual Native Americans without reservation of the mineral estate to the Blackfeet tribe. The tribe also alleged that the federal government had discouraged development of Blackfeet oil and gas revenues and that the government had drained oil and gas from tribal lands to non-tribal lands. David Bentzin was presented as an expert witness for the Blackfeet Tribe in his capacity as a petroleum geologist. Bentzin developed a case for the Blackfeet based on the uneven oil and gas development of the Blackfeet portion of the Cutbank Oil field by the Bureau of Indian Affairs relative to the development authorized by the Bureau of Land Management on adjacent, non-tribal parcels. The Blackfeet Tribe was eventually awarded $5 million in damages by the United States Government.
The First National Bank was organized in 1873 in Missoula, Montana, under the name Missoula National Bank. The bank was not only one of the first businesses in Missoula, but one of the first banks in Montana Territory. Bank officers included Christopher Higgins, Francis L. Worden, and J. P.Reinhard.
Within a few months of its creation, the bank survived the Panic of 1873, which forced 172 banks across the United States to liquidate. During the last decades of the nineteenth century the Missoula bank played an important role in the gold trade in western Montana. It acted as the middleman in transferring the gold from the prospectors to the large financial institutions of the east coast. All of these gold transactions enabled the Missoula bank to obtain more currency, which was important to the growth of the Missoula and western Montana economy.
In 1889, the bank became the First National Bank of Missoula. By 1976, it changed its name to First National Montana Bank of Missoula. By 1986, it was First Interstate Bank.
The Missoula Trust and Savings Bank was incorporated in 1903. Officers were Frederick D. Whisler, President; Dr. Oel. S. Misick, Vice President; and John W. Hicklin, Cashier. Its charter expired in 1953.
Donald Sutherland MacIvor was born in the late nineteenth century, probably in Nova Scotia. In 1903 or 1904 he began work for the Northern Pacific Railroad as an agent and telegraph operator. He worked for the railroad in Drummond, Bearmouth, Arlee, Ronan, and Ravalli before locating to Missoula, Montana, in 1945 or 1946. He married Nellie (Helen) Crockett of Hopewell, Nova Scotia in the early 1900s. The MacIvors retired in Missoula. Nellie died in 1972 and Donald in the mid 1970s.
The Montana Interscholastic Editorial Association (MIEA), one of the oldest state high school press associations in the United States, was founded on May 14, 1915 during the University of Montana’s 12th Annual Interscholastic Meet. The School of Journalism’s Dean, Arthur L. Stone, and the Montana Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, a journalism honor society, invited high school newspaper editors to attend the meet for the purpose of forming a state-wide press organization. The organization was active during the 1915 and 1916 school years, but suspended its activities during World War I. In 1923, high school journalism students, instructors, and the School of Journalism formally founded the MIEA. By 1957 the school had begun hosting High School Day, an annual conference for MIEA members with press-related workshops and awards for outstanding Montana high school journalists. The MIEA was later renamed the Montana Journalism Education Association (MJEA). As of 2015, more than 100 MJEA members attended the High School Day event each year.
Biography of the Cushman Family
Clarice Mildred Stromert Cushman was born March 13, 1906 in Stratford, Iowa, to Ida and Bernard Stromert. She graduated from high school in Wilmar, Minnesota, in 1923 and from the State Teachers College in St. Cloud, Minnesota, in 1925. Clarice Stomert married William Cushman on January 12, 1935. For most of their married life Clarice Cushman lived in Missoula, Montana. She was a charter member of the Faith Evangelical Free Church.
William Howard Cushman was born January 24, 1909 in Woodstock, Ohio, to Mary Ellen and Arthur Cushman. He attended the University of Ohio, majoring in forestry, and later attended Montana State University in Missoula, Montana in 1939 and 1940. After he moved to Missoula, he worked for the U.S. Forest Service. During World War II, he served with the U.S. Navy. After the war, he worked in Liberia, Africa, for the LeTourneau Corporation for about four years. He then rejoined his family in Missoula where he did a variety of outdoors work. He was a member of the Faith Evangelical Free Church.
The Cushmans had one child, Roger, born December 10, 1938, in Missoula, Montana. Roger was diagnosed with “quadriplegia with hydrocephalus.” The Cushmans struggled with his care and education. In the mid 1940s Roger stayed at Beverly Farm Home and School for Nervous and Backward Children in Godfrey, Illinois. When that institution’s treatment was unsatisfactory, Mrs. Cushman moved with Roger to Denver, Colorado, for speech and physical therapy. By 1946 they were back in Missoula but Mrs. Cushman searched for the best options for their son for many years afterwards. Roger Cushman died February 17, 1978.
William Cushman died April 30, 1987 and Clarice Cushman died February 2, 1993, both in Missoula, Montana.
James C. Garlington was born in 1908. He attended the University of Montana, where he received his law degree in 1930. He founded the law firm of Garlington, Lohn & Robertson in Missoula, Montana.
Garlington ran as a Republican during the campaign for delegateship for the 1972 Constitutional Convention, which was called to revise Montana's 1889 state constitution. Despite opposition Garlington won the position by a narrow margin. His losing opponent, T. Gary Curtis, called for a recount, but that recount showed that Garlington had won the election. Garlington served on the Executive, Education and Natural Resources, and Agriculture committees. He also prepared the ceremony for the signing of the new constitution after it was approved by Montana voters in 1972.
After the convention, Garlington returned to his Missoula home and his law practice. He died in 1995.
The National Farmers’ Alliance was first organized in Texas in 1875. On May 20, 1886, the Montana Enterprise Farmers’ Alliance held its first organizational meeting. Meetings held included lectures on agriculture, and prizes were awarded for production.
On December 17, 1890, the Carlton Farmers’ Alliance No. 6 of Stevensville, Montana, was granted a charter. The Carlton Farmers’ Alliance had eighteen original members including president J.H. Powers and secretary August Post.
In December 1887, a dinner was held by Theodore Roosevelt at his home in New York City and was attended by 10 of his friends, all hunting enthusiasts. Among the attendees were Dr. George Bird Grinnell, then editor of Field and Stream magazine, Roosevelt’s cousin, and Roosevelt’s brother. At the dinner Theodore Roosevelt proposed that the guests form an organization to promote sport with the rifle and work for the preservation of the large game of North America.
The first formal meeting of the Boone and Crockett Club was held in February 1888. Those present elected Theodore Roosevelt as President of the Club. The administrative duties of the Club would fall to an Executive Committee and Executive Officers. An editorial committee, with George Bird Grinnell as chair, was formed to prepare publications that promoted the Club’s conservation message. American Big-Game Hunting, by George Bird Grinnell and Theodore Roosevelt, was the first volume published by the Club and was released in October of 1893 by Forest and Stream Publishing Company. This volume was followed by several more game-related publications in collaboration with Forest and Stream Publishing Company.
A Committee on Admissions was formed at the Club’s first meeting. Membership was to be kept to 100 in order to keep administrative work to a minimum so that officers could be free to use their time for the goals of the Club. It was decided that regular membership requirements included killing “in fair chase” one specimen of three species of the larger game mammals of North America. Associate memberships were conferred upon men who did not meet these requirements but were prominent members of the hunting and conservation community. Another committee was appointed “to promote useful and proper legislation toward the enlargement and better management of Yellowstone National Park.” This committee, along with additional Club members, was instrumental in the passage of the Yellowstone Park Protective Act of 1895.
In 1910, a Game Preservation Committee was appointed with George Bird Grinnell as chair. This committee lent its support to the passage of conservation laws and policies such as the Alaska Game Law, the establishment of Glacier and Mt. McKinley National Parks, a bill to enlarge Yellowstone National Park, and many forest reserve and game refuge bills. The Club was able to lend effective support to conservation efforts due to its number of notable members, including Aldo Leopold, Gifford Pinchot, Theodore Roosevelt, Grinnell, Charles Sheldon, John F. Lacey, Stephen Mather, Jay N. “Ding” Darling, and many other prominent conservationists.
Between the years 1906 and 1922, Club member William T. Hornaday began collecting and cataloging exceptional big game heads. This collection became the National Collection of Heads and Horns and was displayed at the Bronx Zoo in New York City beginning in 1922. The Club assumed ownership of the National Collection of Heads and Horns in 1978 and the collection is currently available for viewing at the Buffalo Bill Historical Center in Cody, Wyoming.
The National Collection of Heads and Horns and the early conservation efforts of the Club sparked an interest in some members for big game records keeping. In the early 1930s, the Boone and Crockett Club began to assemble data on the maximum size attained by various species of North American big game. Prentiss N. Gray published the Club’s first big game records book titled Records of North American Big Game in conjunction with the National Collection of Heads and Horns in 1932. A second edition followed in 1939. These editions marked the first time that North American big game records were collected, authenticated, and published.
In 1947, the Club formed a Conservation Committee under the chairmanship of Richard Borden of the National Wildlife Federation. The Conservation Committee endorsed bills and produced policy statements for conservation, and was instrumental in saving the Florida Key Deer from extinction and establishing a Key Deer refuge in 1957. The Club also began supporting big game research through small monetary grants in 1948. Through oversight of the Conservation Committee, the Club contributed to numerous wildlife research projects including predator-prey relationships in Alaska, moose-wolf relationships on Isle Royale National Park, research on grizzly bears in Yellowstone National Park, and many others. In 1972, the Conservation Committee established an official Grant-in-Aid Subcommittee to oversee grant proposals. The Grant-in-Aid program continues today as the William I. Spencer Conservation Grants Program. The program is supported by endowments named for William I. Spencer and Tim Hixon.
In 1947, the Club held their first annual Big Game Competition. Supervision of the Competition was the responsibility of the Boone and Crockett Club’s Records of North American Big Game Committee, which was established in 1935. Winners were chosen by a judges’ panel based on skull length, antler or horn length, and basal circumference. The popularity of the competition and the records books led the Club to consider establishing an objective scoring system that could be used by trophy holders to measure their own specimens. In 1949, the Club appointed a committee, chaired by longtime Club member Samuel B. Webb, to develop the Official Scoring System for North American Big Game Trophies. In 1950, the system was adopted by the Club and soon became the standard for measuring North American big game. With the new scoring system in place, the Boone and Crockett Club remeasured the trophies in every category originally published in North American Big Game and published the results in a new edition records book in 1952. The system proved to be so effective it is still in use today in essentially the same form.
Editions of Records of North American Big Game were published every six to seven years after 1952 and 1993, when it was determined that records books would be published every six years. In addition to the original records books, the Club has published volumes on record elk, mule deer and whitetail deer. With collaborative oversight by Club-appointed committees and professional staff, the Boone and Crockett Club continues to publish books about hunting and conservation.
After the success of the initial Big Game Competition, the Boone and Crockett Club continued to hold annual Competitions until 1952, when competitions moved to every 2 years. In 1968, the Club moved the competitions to every three years. After the 14th North American Big Game Competition, held in 1971, the Club chose to change the name of their records program contests to the North American Big Game Awards to deemphasize the competition aspect of trophy hunting.
In 1973, the Boone and Crockett Club began collaborating with the National Rifle Association to sponsor records keeping. The tri-annual North American Big Game Awards Program was run from the Hunting Activities Department of the National Rifle Association by wildlife biologist William H. Nesbitt. The Hunting Activities Department was also responsible for processing entries into the Awards Programs and general records keeping. The Records of North American Big Game Committee of the Boone and Crockett Club retained responsibility for the polices of records keeping, including fair chase requirements, boundary identification, minimum scores, and species to include in the Awards Programs.
In December 1980, the collaboration with the National Rifle Association was dissolved and the Club assumed sole responsibility for the North American Big Game Awards Programs. In January 1981, the Club appointed William H. Nesbitt as Administrative Director for the Boone and Crockett Club’s Big Game Records program to work collaboratively with the Records of North American Big Game Committee. Currently, the administrative duties of Big Game Records are still shared by professional staff and the Records of North American Big Game Committee.
In 1985, with the help of a loan from The Nature Conservancy, the Boone and Crockett Club purchased the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch, located 10 miles southwest of Dupuyer, Montana on the Rocky Mountain Front, adjacent to the Bob Marshall Wilderness and Blackleaf Wildlife Management Area. The Boone and Crockett Foundation was formed and charged with managing and directing the Ranch, which the Club uses to conduct habitat research, conservation education programs, and land management demonstrations. In 2001, the Club completed construction of the Elmer E. Rasmuson Wildlife Conservation Center at the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch. The Center serves as a headquarters for the Club’s Lee and Penny Anderson Conservation Education Program, which offers education programs for people of all ages.
In 1986, the Boone and Crockett Club began publication of an Associates Newsletter which contained hunting and conservation articles and was distributed to Associate Members. This newsletter gave rise to the Club magazine Fair Chase in 1994. Fair Chase continues to be published quarterly and distributed to Associate Members of the Club.
In May of 1987, the Club entered into collaboration with The University of Montana to establish and direct research programs on the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch. Additionally, a Boone and Crockett Wildlife professorship was established at the university. In late 1990, the Club formed a hiring committee for the professorship and in 1992 Hal Salwasser was hired as the first Boone and Crockett Professor of Wildlife Conservation. In addition to the collaboration with The University of Montana, the Club currently has affiliated programs at Texas A&M, Oregon State University, and Michigan State University. In 2009, all physical assets, including the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch, were transferred from the Boone and Crockett Foundation to the Boone and Crockett Club. Although the Foundation no longer plays a role in the day-to-day management of the Ranch, the Foundation continues to raise funds to support and endow conservation education programs.
In 1992, the Boone and Crockett Club purchased the historic Old Milwaukee Railroad Depot on the Clark Fork River in Missoula, Montana, and relocated its headquarters there from Dumfries, Virginia. The Club continues to support its original mission of conservation and game preservation.
The post-World War II demand for telephones far exceeded the Bell System's capabilities, particularly in rural areas. Lake County, Montana, residents were not alone in the 1940s when, sparked by growing awareness of the importance of telephones in everything from business to family safety, they formed the Lake County Telephone Reorganization Committee to research and create a cooperative telephone company. S.R. Logan, secretary of the group, wrote letters to neighbors requesting their support, to government agencies requesting information on cooperative telephone companies and equipment availability, and to Montana officials seeking their advice, backing, or permission on various parts of the telephone project. Logan solicited the support of agricultural organizations as the committee hoped to use existing water and power installations to facilitate the installing of telephone lines. Logan also worked to include women's organizations in the telephone campaign. The information in this collection suggests that the committee amassed substantial support, but no document or letter relates the final outcome. Other sources indicate that many of the first attempts to establish telephone cooperatives failed but later efforts succeeded in the 1950s.
Fra Marie Broadwell was born Nov. 26, 1874, in Terra Haute, Indiana. Soon after this she moved with her family to Rockville, Indiana, where she lived until she was 16 years old. She was then sent to Cincinnati to study painting; from there she went to New York where she attended the American Art School as a pupil of William M. Chase. She later continued her art studies in Paris, where she was a pupil of Alfred Maurer. In 1891 she first went to Wyoming where her mother, who had remarried, lived. Her second trip to Wyoming was in 1893, where she met her future husband, Edwin Lester Dana. They married July 1, 1896. She was a collector of art and several pieces of the collection were willed to the University of Montana. Mrs. Dana died Dec. 1, 1948, in Great Falls, Montana, where she is buried.
Edwin Lester Dana was born October 15, 1864, and his family moved to Montana in 1866. They lived first in Philipsburg, then Missoula, then Helena. In 1878 the family moved to a cattle ranch on the Little Big Horn River in southeastern Montana, where Edwin began his cattle business. He bought his first small herd in 1887. By 1918 he owned one of the largest pure bred Hereford cattle herds in America. Mr. Dana owned a ranch in Parkman, Wyoming, and later, a second one in Cascade County, Montana. Mrs. Dana was his secretary and keen business partner in spite of her frail health. E.L. Dana died in 1946.
Harry William Fritz was born in Maryland on September 15, 1937. He was educated in Missoula, Montana and graduated from Missoula County High School in 1956. Fritz then attended Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, earning his undergraduate degree in chemistry. He went on to receive his Master's Degree in history from the University of Montana at Missoula and a Ph.D. in American history from Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri.
In 1967, Fritz returned to the University of Montana and Missoula to begin a career as a professor in the Department of History. He specialized in the early nationalist period of American history, military history, and the American Civil War. Dr. Fritz taught many of the large American history survey courses and served as chair of the department several times. In 1981, he took over the course on Montana history following the death of his colleague K. Ross Toole. Fritz found his niche as a western historian and authored two books on Montana history, Montana: Land of Contrast and The Lewis and Clark Expedition, as well as editing several western history anthologies.
Fritz was elected to serve in the Montana Legislature as a state representative for two terms, from 1985 to 1989, and as a state senator for one term, from 1991 to 1995. In 2003, he won the Governor’s Humanities Award and in 2004 was chosen by the Council for Advancement and Support of Education as their Montana Professor of the Year. He retired from full-time teaching in 2007 and is currently a Professor Emeritus of History at the University of Montana.
John Rankin, the son of Scottish immigrant Hugh Rankin, was born in Apin, Ontario, Canada in 1841. He was the fourth born of seven sons and four daughters. John Rankin was reared on his father's frontier farm, with little in the way of formal education.
In the fall of 1870, John Rankin moved to Missoula, Montana, and was on his way to being a successful Montana landowner, lumberman, and politician when he married Olive Pickering in 1879. Together, they had six children. After his initial success in the mill business, he became involved in contracting and was instrumental in the construction of Missoula's first stone building, as well as the town's first bridges. In 1891 the Rankin block was erected on East Front Street in Missoula. Following a short illness, John Rankin died in May 3, 1904 of tick fever.
Jeannette Rankin, the eldest daughter of John and Olive Rankin, was born in 1880 and achieved international recognition for her work as a pacifist, particularly in her efforts to keep the United States out of World War II. Jeannette Rankin was prominent suffragette and the first woman to serve in the United States Congress. She died in 1973.
Wellington Rankin, John and Olive Rankin's only son, was born in September, 1884. A front page obituary in the Missoulian touted Wellington Rankin as a millionaire and listed his accomplishments as a lawyer, politician, and rancher. He died in June, 1966.
The Northern Pacific Railroad, its subsidiary Northwest Improvement Company, and various private parties owned many of the concessions and other businesses that provided visitor services in the earliest years of Yellowstone National Park. The Yellowstone Park Company was incorporated under Minnesota law in the 1880s, in association with the Northern Pacific Railroad. Though the organization of this concession has resulted in a number of associated company names (such as Yellowstone Park Transportation Company, Yellowstone Park Camping company, Yellowstone Park Hotel Company, Yellowstone Park Lodge and Camps Company) they fall under the umbrella of the Yellowstone Park Company.
In 1892, Harry W. Child, with partners Silas S. Huntley, L.H. Hershfield, Aaron Hershfield, and others, established the Yellowstone National Park Transportation Company to provide stagecoach travel in the Park. In 1901 Child, Huntley, and E.W. Back purchased the stock of the Yellowstone Park Association to consolidate their control of the concessions. Later that year, Huntley died, leaving Child to control both companies. Child also operated Child & Anceny with C. L. Anceny; that business dealt in real estate and cattle ranching. In 1909 Child, his wife Adelaide D. Child, and their son Huntley Child reorganized the Yellowstone National Park Transportation Company into its constituent parts, the Yellowstone Park Transportation Company and the Yellowstone Park Hotel Company.
Child died in 1931, and his son-in-law William M. Nichols took over the operation of the concessions. In 1936 Nichols merged the park's transportation, hotel, camping, and boating operations into the new Yellowstone Park Company. World War II brought a decline in the concessions as government services to all parks were curtailed and gas rationing curtailed tourist travel. Close to bankruptcy during the 1940s, Nichols was financially unprepared for the tourist boom of the early 1950s. To meet the need for improved and expanded facilities, the government initiated "Mission 66," a joint government and private financial of new facilities, the most ambitious of which was the new Canyon Village, completed in 1957.
Yellowstone Park Company continued to operate in Yellowstone National Park until the United States Government purchased all associated property of the company and their lease to operate was terminated in 1980.
Fred Morin, founder and president of the company, was born in Benson, Minnesota, on February 13, 1880. He worked for a time at a lumberyard in Halleck, Minnesota, before becoming manager of the Robertson Lumber Company yard in Crookston, Minnesota. He arrived in Missoula, Montana, in 1910 and joined with Ed Ribardy in forming the Ribardy Lumber Company. In 1911 Morin became sole owner and changed the name to the Morin Lumber Company in 1916. The company operated a sawmill in upper Miller Creek, southeast of Missoula, from the late 1920s through 1936. In 1947 the Morin Lumber Company began operating a sawmill at Tupper Lake, near Seeley Lake, Montana, and continued production at the site until 1956. Fred Morin sold the planing mill and lumberyard in 1961. He died June 6, 1962.
Washington J. McCormick, a founder of Missoula, Montana, was born in 1835 in the town of Muncie, Indiana. He attended Asbury (Depauw) University, where he received a law degree in 1856. McCormick decided to move to Utah a year later. He quickly became involved in local politics, and established a small law practice. McCormick moved to the capital of the Montana Territory, Virginia City, in 1863. After serving in the First Territorial Legislature and as the secretary of the 1866 Constitutional Convention, he moved to the Missoula area to settle down and practice law.
McCormick became associated with Judge Worden and "Captain" Christopher Higgins, both of whom are noted for planning and building the city of Missoula. Higgins and McCormick eventually became successful law partners. McCormick married Higgins' sister, Kate, in 1869. Together they had seven children, the most notable being W.J. McCormick, Jr., a prominent Missoula attorney born in 1884.
McCormick is remembered for his active life as a strong advocate for the growth and development of the Missoula area. Besides the time he spent in the legislature, McCormick briefly served as the superintendent of the Flathead Reservation north of Missoula. His influence was also instrumental in the decision to route the Northern Pacific Railroad through Missoula, which helped to provide an avenue for future growth and prosperity for the city. McCormick died in February 1889 due to injuries sustained in a windstorm at Fort Owen.
The Cottrell and Helean Logging Company operated out of Missoula, Montana, following World War II until the early 1970s when they discontinued operations. It was an independent logging company that timber to the Anaconda Company in Bonner, Montana.
Albert Mooney founded the Butte Tombstone Company in 1902 under the parent company of Cory Operations. He operated the business until his death in 1965. During the early 1900s until after World War II, Cory Operations controlled all aspects of tombstone manufacturing, from extraction of the granite to sale of the finished product. After the war, it became more cost-effective to buy the granite from extraction companies. Since marble cracked in the wet and cold weather of Montana, he made tombstones out of more durable granite. After Mooney's death, the Choquette family bought the company and operated it until 1983, when they sold it to Glenn Johnson. Johnson bought the company in name only, operating it under his family's company, Trevillion Johnson Memorials, which was started by Johnson's great-grandfather, Edwin Walker, in 1889. The Butte Tombstone Company went out of business in 1990.
James H. Morley was born in Westfield, Massachusetts on May 5, 1824. He attended Massachusetts Normal School and was a student of engineering with Adna Anderson, a Chief Engineer with the Northern Pacific Railway. Morley's first work in engineering was on the Connecticut River Railroad. He then worked with the Engineer Corps of the New York and Erie Railroad, the Pacific Railroad, and the Iron Mountain Railroad. He married Virginia F. Woodruff in 1855.
In 1862 Morley left St. Louis, Missouri, and traveled up the Missouri River on the steamer Spread Eagle. He arrived in Fort Benton, Montana, on June 20, 1862, to join the Montana gold rush. Morley, with a group of men, mined for gold mostly in western Montana south of present day Missoula, ranging almost as far south as Yellowstone. He arrived back in St. Louis on August 4, 1865.
In 1865 Morley returned to work for the Iron Mountain Railroad, first as Chief Engineer and then as Superintendent, completing extensive lines of that railroad before leaving in 1883.
Morley died in 1889.
Helen Edna Buck was born in Wilton, Iowa in 1884 to Henry G. and Phoebe Parker Buck. The letter in this collection documents her move from Yakima, Washington to Rhodes, Iowa, with her parents in 1916. Buck and her family drove through Idaho, Yellowstone Park, Montana, the Dakotas, and Minnesota. She died in Marshalltown, Iowa on May 15, 1945.
John Well-Off-Man is a member of the Chippewa-Cree Tribe. Born in Havre, Montana in 1950, Well-Off-Man was raised on the nearby Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation. In 1978, he received a degree in photography from the Ohio Visual Arts Institute after which he studied printmaking at the Institute of American Indian Arts in New Mexico where he received an Associate of Fine Arts degree in 1990. Continuing his education, Well-Off-Man earned a Bachelor of Arts in Fine Arts from the University of Montana in 2005 and a Master of Arts in Fine Arts, Integrated Arts, and Education from the University of Montana's Creative Pulse Program in 2007. Well-Off-Man has worked as a photographer, film developer, and artist. In 1962 the Montana Phosphate Products Company, based in Garrison, Montana, began a significant phosphate mining and milling project in the Maxville Mining District of Granite County, Montana. In addition to the potential profit for the company, it was hoped that the exploitation of area phosphate deposits would boost the region’s economy. The Douglas Mine and Concentrator located nine miles south of Drummond, Montana on Douglas Creek were a major part of this development. Montana Phosphate Products Company began underground mining at this location in 1962. By 1964 the mine employed approximately 110 workers and was steadily producing phosphate rock.
The advent of phosphate mining in Granite County during the early 1960s perked the interest of other significant firms, particularly Cominco American, Inc., the American branch of a large Canadian mining and smelting corporation. Cominco had been mining in adjacent Powell County, Montana for years, sometimes in partnership with Montana Phosphate Products Company, and saw the expanding Douglas Operation as a natural addition to its holdings. In 1965, Cominco American, Inc. gained control of the Douglas Mine and continued to expand operations at that location. The Douglas Concentrator began milling phosphate rock in 1965, and Cominco started one of Montana’s few open pit phosphate mines on their Douglas Creek site in 1967. During these years of steady expansion, production peaked and the operation employed nearly 160 men and women.
Despite promising production and heavy investment by both Montana Phosphate Products Company and Cominco American, Inc., the operation was closed down in 1968. In 1972, Cominco American, Inc. hired the Bechtel Corporation to dismantle the Douglas Concentrator and send all salvageable equipment to Greenland for use in a mine operated by Greenex, a subsidiary of Cominco. Sections of the mine and tailings at the Douglas site have since been reclaimed by the Montana Waste Cleanup Bureau, while other portions remain on the Montana DEQ shortlist, and may require further reclamation.
The Beckwith Mercantile Company was founded in St. Ignatius, Montana, by George Beckwith in 1902. A Canadian, George Beckwith came to St. Ignatius from Missoula in 1902 and bought the general store from Alexander Demers. Beckwith also established grain elevators in St. Ignatius and Ravalli and the Beckwith Restaurant in St. Ignatius. Beckwith's store had the first telephone in St. Ignatius. George Beckwith was the first mayor of St. Ignatius when it incorporated in 1938.
Margaret (Peggy) Connelly was born on March 3, 1921 in Denver, Colorado and began working as a secretary to U.S. Representative James O'Connor of Montana in 1940. When O'Connor died in office in 1945, Mike Mansfield, then a freshman Congressman, asked Peggy to work in his office. After Mansfield was elected to the U.S. Senate, he appointed Peggy as his Administrative Aide in 1953. At the time, she was one of only three women to hold a top Senate staff appointment. She stayed in the position until Mansfield retired in 1977. Peggy married Joseph DeMichele (1929-1990) in 1946 and died on July 3, 2001.
Theon H. Durnford was born on September 10, 1877 in Salt Lake City, Utah. In 1910 he moved from Idaho to Lolo, Montana, and began farming. From 1913 to at least 1924 Durnford operated a fruit farm in Lolo where he grew apples, cherries, plums, and a variety of other fruits. Durnford sold his fruit to customers throughout Montana and as far away as Pierre, South Dakota. In addition, he sold eggs to a Hughes Mercantile of Lolo, Montana, in exchange for goods and services. Durnford lived in Lolo until he moved to Missoula, Montana, in 1970. He died in Missoula on July 3, 1972.
John Minton Clifton was born in Ohio on February 4, 1883. By the early 1900s Clifton worked as a railroad contractor in Montana. He married Nora M. Toole in 1908. (Nora Toole Clifton was the daughter of John R. Toole, a Montana pioneer, who came to Montana in 1863 and was associated with Marcus Daly in his Montana enterprises. Her mother was Anna Hardenbrook of another Montana pioneer family. Nora was born in 1883 at Challis, Idaho. She attended Montana State University in Missoula in 1902 and graduated from Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio.). The family lived in Missoula for years before moving to Spokane, Washington, where the contracting firm Clifton worked with established a headquarters. The couple had three daughters, including Thula, and two sons.
The Church of the Creator (COTC) was a white supremacist group founded in 1973 by Ben Klassen. Following Klassen’s suicide in 1993 the group was led by Matt Hale.
Otto Arthur Bessey was born in Niotaze, Kansas on October 7, 1904; the oldest of Arthur and Belle Bessey's three children. The Bessey family moved from Kansas to Kalispell, Montana in the 1910s.
Otto Bessey graduated from the University of Montana with a degree in chemistry in 1928. He married Kathryn L. Munro on September 10, 1929 in Kalispell, Montana (the marriage would end in divorce). They would have two sons, Otto Alonzo and Roger. Bessey received his Ph.D. in biochemistry from the University of Pittsburg in 1932. Bessey became a skilled administrator and scientist specializing in nutrition, toxicology, and biochemistry He held research and teaching positions at Columbia University, Harvard Medical School, University of Illinois, the University of Texas Medical School, and the Public Health Research Institute of the City of New York. He also held prominent positions with the Environmental Protection Division at the U.S. Army Natick Laboratory, the Public Health Service, and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS). While at the NIEHS, he was responsible for the dissemination of monies for research and training; Bessey was considered a founding member of the organization's scientific staff. Dr. Bessey retired in 1974.
Otto Bessey passed away on February 6, 1984 in Kensington, Maryland from a stroke. His second wife, Alice Louise Riedinger, passed away on December 15, 1996.
Delta Kappa Gamma Sorority International is an honorary society for women educators. The Eta Chapter was organized on May 6, 1944, in Missoula, Montana, at the Florence Hotel. Since its inception, the chapter raised money to fund a wide range of projects, including scholarships for members to seek further professional education and charitable causes in their community. The members formed a committee to restore the Hellgate Trading Post, beginning in 1950. The property was later sold to the Hillstroms, who worked with Eta Chapter to preserve the site. By 1976, the Grant Creek Schoolhouse at Fort Missoula became the chapter’s restoration project. They restored and furnished the schoolhouse building and published a history of the school in 1981, written by Mildred Dufresne. The schoolhouse was dedicated that same year.
As of 2004 the organization was still active.
Don Oberdorfer was born May 28, 1931 in Atlanta, Georgia. He graduated from Princeton University in 1952 and served as a United States Army lieutenant in Korea from 1953 to 1954. He began his journalistic career on the Charlotte Observer in 1955, becoming the paper’s Washington correspondent in 1958. He was a Washington editor at the Saturday Evening Post (1961-1965) and a national correspondent for the Knight Newspapers chain (1965-1968). During his twenty-five years at the Washington Post (1968-1993), he worked as a White House correspondent, Northeast Asia correspondent, and diplomatic correspondent.
Oberdorfer authored of five books and numerous newspaper and magazine articles. His books include Tet! (Doubleday, 1971; Da Capo Press, 1984) and The Two Koreas: A Contemporary History (Addison-Wesley, 1997). He retired from The Post in 1993, then became the Distinguished Journalist in Residence and Adjunct Professor of International Relations at Johns Hopkins University's Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) in Washington, D.C. In 2006, he founded the U.S.-Korea Institute (USKI) at the Nitze School, which he also chaired until 2013 when he became chairman emeritus. Don Oberdorfer died on July 23, 2015.
Carling Malouf was born in Fillmore, Utah, in 1916. In 1940, he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in business and economics from the University of Utah. As an undergraduate, Malouf worked on an archaeological dig in central Utah, which compelled him to obtain a master’s degree in anthropology at the University of Utah. While working on his master’s, Malouf met his wife Arline, and the couple was married in 1941.
Wartime military service during WWII interrupted Malouf’s work on a doctorate in anthropology at Columbia University. During his service, the couple moved to various posts and stations in Utah, California, and Arizona. In 1946, Malouf was able to resume his doctoral studies at Columbia and he graduated 2 years later. Shortly after graduation in 1948, Malouf was offered a faculty position at The University of Montana in Missoula and he, Arline, and their four young children returned to the west.
While at the University of Montana, Carling Malouf played large role in the development of the departments of Anthropology and Native American Studies, and was chair of the department of Anthropology from 1969-1977. Malouf was an avid researcher in the fields of Archaeology, Ethnology, and Native American Studies. His primary research interests included Native American tribes of Montana, the Plains, and the greater Northwest, comparative ethnology, and archaeological sites in Montana, including Fort Owen. Malouf’s involvement in anthropology and archaeology also extended outside of the University system. He was a supporter and a member of the board of directors of the Montana Archaeological Society, an organization devoted to promoting research and public involvement in archaeology in the state of Montana. Malouf contributed many articles to the Society’s publication, “Archaeology in Montana”, from the years 1959-2000. Malouf was also involved in the development of the Head Start program. In 1960, he was a member of the Montana Child Welfare Committee, a group that made periodic reports to the White House regarding the state of education and youth in Montana. He became a consultant in Anthropology for Project Head Start for the Office of Economic Opportunity. In 1969, Malouf, along with 150 other education specialists, was invited to the White House to a conference for the development of the Head Start Program. Later, he and his wife toured reservations in Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming to provide information and ideas to administrators for the new programs.
Malouf retired from the University of Montana in 1988 and was honored that same year at the Montana Archaeological Society’s Annual Conference. Following his retirement, Malouf continued to do research and publish articles. Carling Malouf died in March of 2007 at the age of 90.
The National Federation of Business and Professional Women’s Clubs organized in 1919 for the purpose of unifying American working women and providing them a means to work toward equality in their professions. In the state of Montana, Missoula was the first city to initiate any local activity and organized a state meeting in March 1921. Missoula resident Lillian Payne acted as the organizer and chair of the first meeting. The state held its first convention in Missoula in 1922 and the city was well represented with residents Amelia Loffnes elected Director, Mabel Humphrey Treasurer, and Elizabeth Powell National Vice President.
Missoula’s organization held a prominent place in the state club, with members repeatedly serving as directors and state officers. The Missoula chapter actively participated in state club activities including: the Young Career Woman contest that recognized young, female professionals; the Woman of Achievement/Woman of the Year Award; and numerous scholarship programs. In more recent years, Missoula members have been crucially active in the Silent Witness Initiative in Montana a project devoted to raising awareness about domestic violence. The club continued in its tradition of serving Missoula women through disseminating information, informed advocacy, and educating the public on issues pertaining to women’s rights.
Vern Haugland was born May 27, 1908, to Olaus and Hannah Haugland of Litchfield, Minnesota, the eighth of eleven children. In 1913, the family moved to a ranch in Meagher County, Montana. After graduating from Gallatin High School, Haugland attended the University of Washington for two years, and finished his degree at the State University of Montana in Missoula in 1931, receiving his BA in Journalism. He then worked for two years with the Missoula Sentinel and the Daily Missoulian. In 1933, he moved to Butte, Montana, and worked as a general reporter for The Montana Standard, and in 1936 Haugland joined the Associated Press' Salt Lake City Bureau. Two years later he transferred to the Los Angeles Bureau. While there he was given the assignment of dating the ten most eligible ladies of Hollywood.
When the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, Haugland volunteered for overseas duty. He was the first AP reporter to arrive in Brisbane, Australia. On August 7, 1942 the B26 bomber, the Martin Marauder, that Haugland was traveling in ran out of fuel, forcing him and the crew to bail out over New Guinea. Haugland was lost in the New Guinea jungle for 47 days. He wrote a book, Letter From New Guinea, about his experiences in 1943. In recognition for his heroism, General MacArthur pinned a Silver Star on Haugland on October 1, while he was still delirious from starvation and exhaustion. Haugland was the first civilian to receive the Silver Star. After recovering, he continued to cover the war in the Pacific. He returned to the United States in mid-1944 for a short stay, during which he married his long-time sweetheart, Tesson McMahon. He and Tess had two daughters, Taya and Marcia. Towards the end of the war, Haugland became an Air Correspondent with the Associated Press. This special group of correspondents were the first to arrive in Shanghai and visit Hiroshima and Nagasaki after the dropping of the atomic bombs. At the end of the war, he was assigned to cover the Indonesian Revolution.
He was forced to return to the United States in March of 1946 after contracting jaundice. Haugland was assigned to the AP's Washington Bureau and in 1951 took over as aviation editor. Starting in the 1950s until his retirement, he covered the NASA space program. NASA called him "the world's most experienced splashdown reporter." Haugland retired from the AP in 1973 and moved with his wife Tess to San Clemente, California. Haugland never retired from writing, though. He wrote two books on the Eagle Squadrons, a group of American men during World War II who flew for the British before America entered the war. He was finishing the third book when he died on September 15, 1984. His wife finished the book for him.
Camp Cooke was built in the fall of 1866 in the angle of land between the Judith and Missouri rivers in central Montana. It was built as a temporary post but remained in operation until spring of 1870. Franklin Miller was a soldier in the 13th U.S. Infantry, Fort Riley, Kansas, until 1866. He then served at Camp Cooke and was discharged on August 5, 1867.
Jeremiah Collins was born in Ireland in 1850 and came to America as a child. Orphaned at age twelve, he worked his way through public schools and Indiana State University in Terre Haute, from which he graduated in 1873. He went into journalism, working first for the Wabash News, then the Logansport Courier. He married Letta E. Fitzgerald in 1878; together, they went to Fort Benton, Montana Territory. In Fort Benton, he established the River Press, which he edited until 1887. He also established the Great Falls Tribune in 1885. In 1889, he withdrew from newspapering to write a history of Montana. After completing that project, he was appointed receiver of public money in the United States General Land Office.
In 1889, Collins established the Collins Land Company in Helena, Montana. The company dealt with public lands, and bought and sold land scrip and represented clients to the Department of the Interior with regard to public lands. This company was so successful that he opened an eastern branch office in Washington, DC, in 1901. The Collins Land Company was one of the largest land scrip dealers in the United States and continued in the business until 1957, when Congress discontinued the use of scrip.
Collins had two children: Lena Agnes and Ted E. He died in 1934 in Washington.
Ted E. Collins took over the Land Company after his father's death and operated it until his death in 1956. The company had expanded into the insurance business in 1910, and that portion of the business increased steadily as the land scrip business declined.
Margaret Chivers was president of the company when its corporate charter expired in 1974 and it ceased to conduct business.
The Collins Realty Company was incorporated in Helena in 1909. Its charter expired in 1929. The Collins Company was incorporated in 1906, and its charter expired in 1926. The Beartooth Stock Company was a livestock raising and agricultural development business headquartered in Helena, Montana.
Jessie M. Bierman was born on April 6, 1900, at Egan Slough near Kalispell, Montana, to Henry and Alice Bierman. She received her bachelor of arts from The University of Montana in 1921 and got a medical degree from Rush Medical College of the University of Chicago in 1926. She earned a master of public health at the Institute of Columbia University fifteen years later.
Dr. Bierman worked in private practice in San Francisco, California, from 1927 to 1936 and also served as an instructor in pediatrics at the University of California School of Medicine. In 1936, Bierman returned to Montana to work as Director of Maternal and Child Health in the Montana Department of Health. She started well-baby clinics in Montana that were a model for such programs across the country.
From 1938 to 1942, she worked with the Children’s Bureau in Washington, D.C., as assistant director of the Division of Health Sciences. She was chief of Maternal and Child Health of the California Department of Public Health from 1942 to 1947, during which she became a lecturer in pediatrics and a professor of maternal and child health at the University of California School of Medicine, a position she held until 1963. While at the University of California, she traveled to Germany as an expert in maternal and child health and served as a consultant on maternal and child health problems in India. Bierman also studied the children of Kauai, Hawaii, and published her findings in the book The Children of Kauai.
She was named professor emerita in 1963, but stayed on as the director of maternal and child health research until 1967. After that, she was the head of the maternal and child bureau for the World Health Organization in Geneva, Switzerland and was visiting professor of public health at the University of North Carolina.
Jessie Bierman was the recipient of the Martha May Eliot Award of the American Public Health Association and other distinguished awards. She was given an honorary doctorate by The University of Montana in 1967.
Bierman had a summer residence at Goose Bay on Flathead Lake. Bierman supported academics and research at The University of Montana’s Biological Station, endowing a distinguished professorship to support an internationally recognized ecologist to study and direct research at the Flathead Lake Biological Station. Bierman died in 1996.
Violet Dunbar was born on November 12, 1904 in Red Lodge, Montana. Her paternal grandparents, David and Caroline Lay, traveled in covered wagons from Missouri and settled on a homestead in the Gallatin Valley of Montana. They later moved to Red Lodge, where David Lay was the first licensed surveyor in Carbon County. Upon their divorce, Caroline Lay married Joe Simpkins and was a successful sheep and cattle rancher. Violet Dunbar's maternal grandparents, Dude and Agnes Linley, were early Red Lodge residents. Dude Linley was a mercantile owner and the postmaster of Linley (later called Luther), for whom the post station was named. Dunbar's parents, George and Dorothy Lay, were ranchers. She had two siblings, Vera and Lester. She attended a small rural school near Red Lodge. She married George Dunbar around 1924 and had her first child the following year. The couple had at least two children. They moved to Detroit, Michigan around 1926, where George was employed as a druggist. Violet Dunbar died on January 1, 2001 in Santa Cruz, California.
The 1935 Montana legislature passed the State Electrification Authority Act, which tied Montana into contact with the state water development projects. In the same year, President Roosevelt formed the Rural Electric Administration in the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Missoula Electric Cooperative, Inc., (MEC) was formed in Missoula, Montana, in 1936. It was one of several electric co-operatives formed because the Montana Power Company, the state's major provider, would not provide power in many rural areas because construction costs outweighed potential profits. Members of the co-op paid a fee, installation and consumption costs; the organization is non-profit. Electric cooperatives played an important role in rural electrification in Montana and many other states. Eugene Pike came to work for the co-op in 1937. Soon after it was formed, the MEC received a loan from the Rural Electrification Administration to build power lines from Missoula to Frenchtown, down the Bitterroot Valley, and out to Clinton, a project known as the "A" project. When World War II began, power line construction slowed considerably, and the company stopped construction in 1943. Pike returned from his shipyard job to become co-op manager in 1946.
There was no power supplier for Seeley Lake, Montana, at this time, and the co-op wished to begin line construction. They were unable to get a loan for this from the REA because the co-op purchased its power from Montana Power, and the rates they were being charged were too high. However, the REA agreed to lend the co-op the money for line construction if they bought their power from another supplier at a lower rate. Bonneville Power wished to do business in Montana, but the Montana Power Company did not welcome this competition. Senator James Murray helped pass legislation to allow Bonneville Power to come into Montana so that the co-op would be able to build its line to Seely Lake. The co-op remained hooked up to Montana Power lines, but would pay Bonneville Power for the electricity; Bonneville in turn paid Montana Power. The co-op also explored other power sources, including the fledgling nuclear power industry.
The co-op constantly clashed with the Montana Power Company over questions of competition in the state. In the late 1960s, the MEC clashed with Montana Power Company over territorial integrity, the question of whether the for-profit companies could begin to serve customers in territories formerly served only by the co-ops. The state legislature finally resolved some of these conflicts in 1970.
Andrew Hammond had arrived in Montana in 1867, settled in Hell Gate in 1870, then moved to Missoula in late 1871. He became a clerk in the store for Richard Eddy, and then a partner in the store in 1876. The business was renamed Eddy, Hammond, and Co. In 1877, the store constructed its building at the intersection of Front Street and Higgins Avenue, on the Mullan military road, in Missoula. In 1881, the firm was awarded the contract to clear the right of way and provide the lumber for the construction of the Northern Pacific Railway. When the Northern Pacific was completed at Gold Creek, Montana, in 1883, business expanded considerably. The Montana Improvement Company, formed in 1882, took over this portion of the Eddy, Hammond, and Company business. After the reorganization of Eddy, Hammond and Company as the Missoula Mercantile in 1885, Charles H. McLeod became the vice president and general manager.
The Missoula Mercantile and its branches and affiliates became one of the largest business concerns of the Pacific Northwest. By 1945 Charles H. McLeod's son, Walter H. McLeod, managed the Missoula Mercantile.
Max Sieben Baucus (born Enke) was born on December 11, 1941 at St. Peter's Hospital in Helena, Montana, to Stephen Enke and Jean Sheriff. His sister, Karen, was born two years later in Stanford, California. The Enkes separated and Jean moved with Max and Karen back to Montana. Jean married John J. Baucus Jr., a former Air Force officer, in March of 1947. Max Baucus spent the remainder of his childhood in Helena, while spending summers and weekends at the Sieben family ranch. Baucus’ first foray into public service took the shape of his participation in the American Legion Montana Boys State in 1958, where he was elected Most Outstanding Citizen. This appointment led to his nomination as one of two Montana representatives to the American Legion Boys Nation in Washington, D.C. in 1959, where he met Senators James Murray and Mike Mansfield, and Representatives Lee Metcalf and LeRoy H. Anderson. After graduating from high school in 1959, Baucus attended Carleton College in Minnesota for one year. He then transferred to Stanford University, where he graduated in 1964 with a B.A. in Economics. During his time at Stanford, Baucus spent a year traveling internationally, a trip which was to significantly shape his world view and spark a desire for a career in public service. He subsequently received an L.L.B. from Stanford University Law School in 1967.
Baucus moved to Washington, D.C. after law school, where he spent three years working as a lawyer for the Securities and Exchange Commission. It was there that he first met with Senator Mike Mansfield to discuss the idea of running for office. He moved to Missoula, Montana in 1971 to practice law. He was a staff member for the Montana Constitutional Convention, first as the Executive Assistant to Leo Graybill, Jr., President of the Constitutional Convention, and then as the Executive Director. Baucus was elected to the Montana House of Representatives in 1972, representing Missoula. He conducted his first Congressional campaign in 1975, beating incumbent Dick Shoup to win a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. Baucus served two terms in the House, from 1975-1978, and was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1978.
As the longest-serving U.S. Senator from Montana, Baucus served in the Senate from 1978 to 2014, winning six consecutive elections. During that time, he served nearly 10 years as Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, as well as two years as Chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee. He also served on the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Small Business, and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. Significant legislative accomplishments include amendments to the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act in 1976; tax reform efforts in the 1980s and 2000s; the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990; the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21) of 1998; the Rocky Mountain Front Heritage Act of 2013; securing federal recognition and support for the asbestos crisis in Libby, Montana; and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) of 2010. Baucus was a strong advocate for rural communities throughout his tenure in both the House and Senate, introducing and supporting legislation surrounding rural health care, postal service, and air service. He also worked extensively on trade issues, and was deeply involved in negotiations regarding softwood lumber imports from Canada, beef imports from Japan, and the assignation of China’s Most Favored Nation status. Locally, Baucus founded and facilitated the triennial Montana Economic Development Summit from 2000 to 2013, a jobs summit which brought together Montana residents and renowned business leaders from around the globe.
President Barack Obama nominated Baucus to the post of United States Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China on January 7, 2014. Baucus’ nomination was subsequently confirmed by the Senate on February 6, 2014, and he assumed his ambassadorial duties on March 20, 2014. He served as Ambassador until January 20, 2017. Baucus currently resides in Montana.
The Montana Gerontology Society was organized in 1982 and provides opportunities for individuals interested in gerontology to share common concerns and ideas. The Society is dedicated to enhancing professional development and understanding among providers of services, seniors, volunteers, researchers, educators, students, and others associated with the field of aging. Among the Society’s objectives are encouraging networking among people in the field, and developing training for professionals and the public. The organization is known for its annual conferences that have been held since 1983.
The activist group Missoula Women for Peace (MWP) was formed in 1970 by a group of Missoula, Montana mothers and other community members concerned with the escalating American military presence in Vietnam. During the Vietnam War the group was extremely active, participating in peace marches, working to end the draft, and writing letters to local, state and national officials to protest the conflict in Vietnam. In the years following the Vietnam War, MWP members continued to educate themselves and the public on a broad array of peace related issues by hosting and attending lectures, reading books, distributing literature and holding public meetings. The group also initiated an annual bake sale on April 15th, Tax Day during the 1970s, to alert citizens to the significant amount of their tax dollars used for military purposes.
MWP continued to be an active voice for peace and social justice in Missoula throughout the 1980s. The group became a member of Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom in 1981, a relationship that proved beneficial to both organizations through the exchange of information, speakers and financial support. In 1985 MWP group members succeeded in placing a statue of Montana’s prominent peace activist, suffragette and politician, Jeannette Rankin, in the Statuary Hall of the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. The 1980s also marked the beginning of the group’s Peace Consortium Dinners, a monthly gathering of peace groups in the Missoula area. From these dinners and similar collaborative events came the idea for a clearinghouse of peace resources in Western Montana. This vision was realized when MWP members, along with countless other groups and individuals, facilitated the opening of the Jeanette Rankin Peace Center in 1986.
The 1990s and the beginning of the 21st century have seen a slowdown in MWP sponsored activities as the founding members grow older. Yet, the group continues to meet on a regular basis and sponsor many of its annual events such as the Tax Day Bake Sale. MWP has also vigorously protested the Persian Gulf War of 1991, the Kosovo Conflict of the late 1990s, violence in Latin America and many other conflicts around the world, and remains optimistic that future generations will take up the fight to firmly establish world peace.
Dawn Walsh, a staff member and student of the Women’s History Department at the University of Montana, conducted the Missoula Women for Peace Oral History Project in 2000. The project was part of Walsh’s internship with the Jeannette Rankin Peace Resource Center, and was supervised by John Bertche, a board member at the Peace Center, and Anya Jabour, a history professor at The University of Montana. The objective of the project was to document and celebrate the history of Missoula Women for Peace, as well as record the personal reflections of eleven veteran group members before they grew too old to participate in oral history interviews.
During the course of the project Dawn Walsh recorded eleven individual and one group oral history interview with MWP members. She also attended and photographed MWP sponsored events such as the annual Tax Day Bake Sale and the donation of peace-related children’s books to the Missoula Public Library. Walsh also organized a banquet in honor of MWP members that was held at the Jeanette Rankin Peace Resource Center in May of 2000. After the completion of the Missoula Women for Peace Oral History Project, Walsh donated all materials compiled and created during the project’s course to the K. Ross Toole Archives with the hope that they will inspire and educate future generations of women activists.
Known as Frank D. "Sandbar" Brown throughout his life in Montana, Brown was born John Francis Deane Brown in Nelson County, Virginia on November 24, 1845. In June 1861 he enlisted in the Confederate Army and served until his discharge in September 1862. He re-enlisted, this time in the marine service. Capture by the Union Army ended his military career in April 1863. Brown was paroled and transported to St. Louis where he booked passage on a steamer to Fort Union on the upper Missouri River and then on to Fort Benton in Montana Territory by December 1865. It was also about this time that Brown permanently dropped "John" from his name in response to an increasing distaste for the Union Army's marching song "John Brown's body lies a mouldering in the ground..."
In Montana Territory he worked as a fur trapper, scout and a placer miner. In 1873, A. J. Davis hired Brown, who then located the Lexington and other mines. In 1878, Brown moved to Philipsburg and worked for mining firms in the area. During the next forty years he managed and developed many of the well-known placer and quartz mines in the area. He was also owner and editor of the Philipsburg Mail and gained his nickname of "Sandbar" through the signing of many articles with that title.
Brown attended all Democratic party state conventions for over 40 years. He was also a member of the Sons of the American Revolution and the major-general commanding the northwest division of the United Confederate Veterans for the states of Montana, the Dakotas, Idaho, Wyoming and Washington.
Brown was an active member of the Society of Montana Pioneers and in 1908 was elected as its historian, an office he held, except for one year, until his death in 1931. In 1923 he was also elected as secretary of the organization. Within the Society, he was instrumental in determining locations and erecting monuments marking significant historical events, including marking the path of the Mullan Road. A son, James M. Brown, and daughter, Albertina (Tina) Brown Parker, were active in the Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers.
Brown married Anna Elizabeth Lentz in Helena, Montana, on December 1873. They had eight children: Frances Dean, Anna, Edward Wilhelm, Amy Frances, Albertina Nettie, Minnie Madeline, Angus, and James A. Murray. Francis Dean, Anna, and Angus died before the age of three. Anna Lentz Brown died on October 6, 1914.
During his later years, Brown was a rancher and also worked in real estate and insurance. He died in Missoula, Montana, on January 16, 1931.
J. R. Mitchell was born in 1888 in what is now Powder River County, Montana, the son of a cowpuncher named George L. Mitchell. J. R. worked as a cowboy and lived around Broadus, Montana, until he moved to Deer Lodge, Montana.
Mary Birch received a B.A. in International Relations from Stanford University in the early 1960s. She enrolled in Columbia University School of Social Work in 1963 and graduated in 1966. From there, Birch, married with one child, moved to Missoula, Montana where she was hired as the first social worker with the Missoula Head Start program. She completed a second masters degree in sociology at the University of Montana in 1968.
Birch began teaching at the University of Montana in 1968, going from part time to full time in 1970. She initiated a course in wholistic health and throughout her tenure at the university, continued to offer courses reflecting her interests in non-conventional subjects ranging from the impact of environmental degradation to a celebration of spirituality diversity.
In 1979, after a unanimous finding of discrimination by the University Discrimination Committee and the failure of the University President to implement the recommended remedies, Birch initiated a successful sex discrimination complaint against the University through the Montana Human Rights Commission. She was also very involved in the District Court discrimination suits of two colleagues, Marlene Salway and Patricia Roesch, through the late 1970s and early 1980s.
Through the 1980s, Birch became involved in AIDS programs in Missoula, Montana, attending training programs, conducting a research project, serving on AIDS prevention committees, facilitating support groups, and including content on AIDS in all her social work courses. In 1989 she was selected by the Montana Department of Health and Environment Sciences as the first recipient of the Outstanding Community Volunteer in Montana for her AIDS related work. The following year she was awarded sabbatical leave and spent a year in San Francisco, California, working in AIDS programs.
During her career at the University, Birch was instrumental in bringing about salary equity for women faculty. She retired from full-time teaching in 2000 and continued part-time on a post-retirement contract for another three years. She continues to reside in Missoula, Montana.
Carling I. Malouf was born in Fillmore, Utah, in 1916. In 1940, he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in business and economics from the University of Utah. As an undergraduate, Malouf worked on an archaeological dig in central Utah, which compelled him to obtain a master’s degree in anthropology at the University of Utah. While working on his master’s, Malouf met his wife Arline, and the couple was married in 1941.
Wartime military service during WWII interrupted Malouf’s work on a doctorate in anthropology at Columbia University. During his service, the couple moved to various posts and stations in Utah, California, and Arizona. In 1946, Malouf was able to resume his doctoral studies at Columbia and he graduated 2 years later. Shortly after graduation in 1948, Malouf was offered a faculty position at The University of Montana in Missoula and he, Arline, and their four young children returned to the west.
While at the University of Montana, Carling Malouf played large role in the birth and development of the departments of Anthropology and Native American Studies, and was chair of the department of Anthropology from 1969-1977. Malouf was an avid researcher in the fields of Archaeology, Ethnology, and Native American Studies. His primary research interests included Native American tribes of Montana, the Plains, and the greater Northwest, comparative ethnology, and archaeological sites in Montana, including Fort Owen. Malouf’s involvement in anthropology and archaeology also extended outside of the University system. He was a supporter and a member of the board of directors of the Montana Archaeological Society, an organization devoted to promoting research and public involvement in archaeology in the state of Montana. Malouf contributed many articles to the Society’s publication, Archaeology in Montana, from the years 1959-2000.
Malouf was also involved in the development of the Head Start program. In 1960, he was a member of the Montana Child Welfare Committee, a group that made periodic reports to the White House regarding the state of education and youth in Montana. He became a consultant in Anthropology for Project Head Start for the Office of Economic Opportunity. In 1969, Malouf, along with 150 other education specialists, was invited to the White House to a conference for the development of the Head Start Program. Later, he and his wife toured reservations in Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming to provide information and ideas to administrators for the new programs.
Malouf retired from the University of Montana in 1988 and was honored that same year at the Montana Archaeological Society’s Annual Conference. Following his retirement, Malouf continued to do research and publish articles. Carling Malouf died in March of 2007 at the age of 90.
James Clinton Rule was born in Iowa around 1904. He graduated from Powell County High School in Deer Lodge, Montana in 1921. Rule attended the State University of Montana in Missoula (now the University of Montana) and was an active member of the campus community pledging with the Sigma Nu fraternity and a member of the university track team. He graduated with a degree in business administration in 1927 and went to work for the Commercial Investment Trust Company in Spokane, Washington. In 1928, he received a promotion within the company and relocated to Butte, Montana.
The Maclay family came to Montana in 1863 and operated a general store in Virginia City, Montana. John Maclay and a partner, J. T. Murphy, opened a general store at Fort Benton, Montana. The firm became known as Murphy-Maclay and Company and operated until the death of John Maclay on January 3, 1896. Grant Maclay opened and operated a small "corner" grocery at the intersection of South Avenue and Reserve Street in Missoula, Montana. He also owned and operated a small motel across the street. Maclay took great interest in both the history and fate of Fort Missoula.
Jack L. Demmons was the Superintendent of the Bonner School from 1974 to 1985. During his tenure, Jack Demmons started collecting photos documenting the history of Bonner, Montana.
The law firm of Cornish, Winstanley, and Tower began in April 1889 in Missoula, Montana, as Fairchild and Cornish. It was founded by J.H. Fairchild, who came to western Montana in 1866 to explore the possibility of operating a steamboat between Lake Pend Oreille and the Jocko River. He left Montana to several years and returned to Missoula in September, 1888. The other founding partner was John Cornish, who came to Missoula in 1886 or 1887. In January 1890, the firm became Fairchild, Cornish & Company when J.A. Armitage and E.A Winstanley joined the firm. Armitage came to Missoula in 1889 from Helena, Montana, where he had been with a real estate firm. Winstanley came to Helena as Land Agent for the Northern Pacific Railway in 1883. In 1885, he moved to Missoula, where he employed by the Big Blackfoot Milling Company. In Febuary 1891, the firm became Cornish, Winstanley, and Tower when E.H. Tower joined the firm. He had come to Missoula in summer of 1890 when he briefly joined M.E. Rutherford in a mining-real estate business.
The firm dealt mostly in real estate and land improvement.
The first survey for a northern route to the Pacific was conducted by the War Department in 1853. The Northern Pacific Railroad Company was organized in 1864 with Josiah Perman as president. Construction began at Carlton, Minnesota, in February 1870, with an initial operation of 125 miles. That same year, construction began at Kalama, Washington Territory, near Portland, Oregon, and that line was extended to New Tacoma, Washington Territory, by 1873. The company was reorganized in the wake of financial troubles in 1875. The western and eastern lines joined at Gold Creek, Montana, in 1883. The real completion date was 1888 when the tunnel through Stampede Pass, Washington, was opened, replacing a switchback line over that pass. The company was reorganized for a second time in 1896 as the Northern Pacific Railway Company.
The company’s lines were organized into divisions. According to the 1881 annual report, the divisions were as follows:
Wisconsin Division: Brainerd, Minnesota to Dulluth, Minnesota
Minnesota Division: Minnesota/North Dakota border to Great Lakes
Dakota Division: Bismarck, North Dakota to North Dakota/Minnesota border
Missouri Division: Bismarck, North Dakota to Miles City, Montana
Yellowstone Division: Miles City, Montana to Livingston, Montana
Rocky Mountain Division: Livingston, Montana to Missoula, Montana
Clark’s Fork Division: Missoula, Montana to Montana/Idaho border
Pend D’Oreille Division: Montana/Idaho border to Ainsworth, Washington
Cascade Division: Ainsworth, Washington to Tacoma, Washington
Pacific Division: Tacoma, Washington to Portland, Oregon
The geographic boundaries of divisions changed over time. They were originally based on the distance an engine could go before it needed service and fuel, a distance that became greater with changes in engine technology.
Under its charter, the Northern Pacific could not build branch lines to feed into the main line. In order to meet its needs for feeder lines and other cooperative transportation ventures, the main company formed separate corporations to construct connecting lines. These small rail and other transportation lines were then sold to the parent company, which under its charter was able to acquire previously constructed lines.
The Astoria and Columbia River Railroad Company was incorporated on April 4, 1895. It operated between Seaside and Goble, Oregon, from May 1898 to March 1911. Its predecessor was the Seashore Railroad Company. By 1909 it was an operating subsidiary of the Spokane, Portland and Seattle Railway Company until the two companies merged in 1911.
The Camp Creek Railway Company was incorporated June 8, 1911, and built from Manhattan to Anceny, Montana. It opened its line in 1912, and sold to the NPRR in June 1914.
The Central Washington Railroad Company operated a line from Cheney to Coulee City, Washington.
The Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company was incorporated on February 14, 1855. It operated main lines from Chicago, IL, to St. Paul, Minnesota, and to St. Louis, MO, and Cody, Wyoming. Like the Northern Pacific, it created and absorbed numerous branch and predecessor lines. Also like the NPRR, it became a part of the Burlington Northern Railroad Company in 1970.
The Clearwater Short Line Railway Company was incorporated on November 9, 1898, and sold to the Northern Pacific Railway Company on June 23, 1914. Its main lines were from Riparia, Washington, to Grangeville, Stites, and Headquarters, Idaho.
The Coeur d’Alene Railway and Navigation Company was incorporated on July 6, 1886, and was leased to the NPRR in 1888. Its main line ran from Cataldo, Idaho to the Montana state line near Mullan, Idaho. It was sold in foreclosure to the NPRR on January 26, 1897.
The Connell Northern Railway Company was incorporated on June 1, 1909. It operated between Connell and Adco, Washington, between in 1910 and 1914. It was sold to the NPRR on June 25, 1914.
The Drummond and Phillipsburg Railroad Company was incorporated on January 17, 1887 and sold to the Northern Pacific and Montana Railroad Company on September 7, 1888. It operated a line between Drummond and Phillipsburg, Montana. There was also an extension to Rumsey, Montana, that was abandoned in 1904.
The Dixon-Polson Line operated between Dixon and Polson, Montana.
The Gaylord and Ruby Valley Railway Company was incorporated on March 29, 1897 and sold to the NPRR on February 28, 1899. It started a line from Renovo, Montana, to Twin Bridges, Montana; construction was completed by the NPRR.
The Great Northern Railway Company was originally the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railroad Company (incorporated May 23, 1879); the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company (incorporated March 10, 1862), and the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company (incorporated March 1, 1956). The first division of the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Co. completed its first line from St. Paul to Minneapolis in 1862. The Great Northern Railway Company was formed on September 18, 1889 and involved the purchase or absorption of these and numerous other lines. Originally operating in Minnesota and the Midwest, the company completed its line from Duluth and St. Paul, Minnesota, to Everett and Seattle, Washington in 1893. It was the only line to build to the west coast without federal land grants.
The Green River and Northern Railroad Company was incorporated on September 22, 1890 and was sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898. It was a branch line that joined the NPRR system at Palmer Junction in western Washington state.
The Kootenai Valley Railroad Company was incorporated on October 19, 1898. Its main line ran from Bonners Ferry, Idaho, to Porthill, Idaho, on the Canadian border. It was sold to and merged into the Great Northern Railway Company in 1913.
The Livingston-Gardner Branch operated from Livingston to Gardner, Montana.
The Missoula and Bitter Root Valley Railroad Company was incorporated on January 4, 1887. It operated a line from Missoula, Montana, to Grantsdale, Montana, 1888. That same year, it was incorporated into the Northern Pacific and Montana Railroad Company.
The Missouri River Railway Company was incorporated June 13, 1906, in North Dakota. It built track from Glendive to Sidney, Montana, and from Cannon Ball to Stanton, North Dakota. It was sold to the NPRR on June 20, 1914.
The Northern Pacific and Montana Railway Company was formed of the Drummond and Phillipsburg Railroad Company, the Helena and Northern Railroad Company, the Helena, Boulder Valley and Butte Railroad Company, and the Missoula and Bitter Root Valley Railroad Company in 1888. Its main lines ran from Logan, Montana to Butte and from De Smet, Montana, to the Idaho state line. There were also numerous branch lines.
The Northern Pacific and Puget Sound Shore Railroad Company was incorporated on August 23, 1884. Its main line operated between Meeker and Seattle, Washington, with branch lines to Kennydale and from Kirkland Junction to Kirkland. It was sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898.
The Peninsular Branch operated between Shelton and Gordonville, Washington.
The Port Townsend and Southern Railroad was incorporated on September 28, 1887 and operated from 1890 to 1914. Its predecessor was the Olympia and Chehalis Valley Railroad Company. Its main lines from between Tenino and Olympia and between Port Townsend and Quilcene, Washington. The main line was sold to the NPRR in 1914; the line was then sold to Joshua Green in 1917.
The Puget Sound Shore Railroad was incorporated on August 19, 1882. It operated a line between Stuck Junction (south of Kent, Washington) to Seattle. It was sold to the Northern Pacific and Puget Sound Shore Railroad Company October 31, 1889, which was in turn sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898.
The Rocky Fork and Cooke City Railway Company was incorporated on December 10, 1886. It operated a line from Laurel, Montana, to Red Lodge, Montana. It was sold to and merged into the NPRR on April 21, 1898.
The St. Paul and Duluth Railroad Company was incorporated June 28, 1877. It was sold to the NPRR on June 15, 1900.
The St. Paul and Northern Pacific Railway Company was sold to the NPRR on November 2, 1896.
The Seattle and International Railway Company was incorporated on June 30, 1896. Its main line ran from Seattle, Washington, to Sumas, on the Washington-British Columbia border, which it purchased as the Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company. It operated from July 1896 to March 1901, when it was sold to the NPRR.
The Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company was incorporated on April 28, 1885. Its two main lines ran from Seattle, Washington, to Sumas, on the Washington-British Columbia border, and from Spokane Falls to Davenport, Washington. It was sold in foreclosure in July 1896—the eastern portion to the Spokane and Seattle Railway Company, the western portion to the Seattle and International Railway Company. These were, in turn sold to the NPRR, in 1900 and 1901.
The Shields River Valley Railway Company was incorporated October 24, 1908 and built a line from Mission to Wilsall, Montana. It was sold to and merged into the NPRR on June 23, 1914.
The Spokane Falls and Idaho Railroad was formed on October 25, 1886. Its main line was from Hauser Junction, near the Washington-Idaho border, to Coeur d’Alene. It operated from 1886 to 1898, when it was sold to the NPRR.
The Spokane and Palouse Railway Company was incorporated in 1886. It operated a line from Marshall, Washington, to Genesee and Juliaetta, Idaho from 1886 to 1899. It was sold to the NPRR on February 21, 1899.
The Tacoma, Olympia and Grays Harbor Railroad Company was formed on May 7, 1890. Its main line ran between Lakeview and Ocosta, Washington, on Grays Harbor. It was sold to the United Railroads of Washington on August 2, 1890, which was in turn sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898.
The Washington and Columbia River Railway Company was incorporated on August 4, 1892. Its main line ran from Pendleton, Oregon, to Dayton, Washington, through Wallula and Walla Walla, Washington. It operated from 1892 to 1907, when it was sold to the NPRR.
The Western Dakota Railway Company was formed on June 13, 1906. It was sold to the NPRR on June 20, 1914.
The Yakima and Pacific Coast Railroad Company was formed on May 1, 1890. It operated a line from Chehalis to South Bend, Washington. On February 13, 1892, it was sold to the United Railroads of Washington. This was sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898.
The Northern Pacific carried passengers and freight throughout the western United States and was crucial part of the settlement and commerce of the area. In 1970, the Northern Pacific, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy, and the Great Northern merged to form Burlington Northern Railroad Company.
Colonel James A. McGowan was born in Malone, New York, on March 5, 1852. He graduated from Wesleyan Seminary in Eau Claire, Wisconsin in 1868. He then worked for three years in a lumber office and then as a railroad contractor and mercantile manager for 11 years before settling in (Wild Horse) Plains, Montana, in May of 1882. He was one of the founders of the city and brought the first farming equipment into that valley where he was the first farmer. Plains was at the time a boom town as the outfitting center for the Coeur d'Alene mining district.
In 1884 he went into partnership with Neptune Lynch, on whose ranch the city was founded. McGowan quickly assumed control of the mercantile business partnership and expanded his influence to control the entire community. He had great ambitions for the town. By the time of his death in 1911, McGowan controlled the general mercantile (McGowan Commercial Company) a butcher shop, a blacksmith shop, a livery stable, a hotel, the Plains News Letter (now the Plainsman), the electric light and heating plant, the Plains water company and was founder and president of The First National Bank of Plains. He also owned the largest grain farm in the valley, upon which as many as 25 worker were employed. A staunch Republican and great supporter of the Progressive Movement, McGowan served as State Stock Commissioner and as United States Commissioner. He was also an active member of the Masons.
McGowan married Delia Farmer, the daughter of James and Sarah Farmer. He died in Los Angeles, where he had gone to improve his health, on April 1, 1911. His death was widely mourned across western Montana.
The McGowan Commercial Company sold a full variety of items for mining, agriculture, and living. From 1902 to 1932, Clifford H. Rittenour was employed at the store, first as manager, then as President of McGowan Commercial Company. He attended the University of Montana in Missoula.
In 1977 Rexford S. Blazer and John L. Wachsmuth managed a historical resource identification and location project study of Montana's mining camps. They said they began the study because ghost towns in Montana were disappearing quickly and the sites should be preserved because they tell the story of how Montana and the West came to be. The research was conducted for the University of Montana, Montana State University, The Montana Ghost Town Preservation Society, and The Western Montana Ghost Town Preservation Society. Their goal was to survey historic mining campsites throughout the state of Montana. They determined which sites contained extant remains which could possibly be preserved. Next they prepared bibliographies on these sites to encourage further research.
John W. Blair arrived in Virginia City, Montana, in July 1864 with a party of 300 who traveled to Montana in search of gold. Blair traveled from Seneca, Ohio, where he was born in October 1841. His father, Thomas Blair, was of Scotch-Irish ancestry. His mother, Mary Saylor, came from a prominent Virginia family. John W. Blair lived on his family’s farm and was educated in public schools until he left to fight in the Civil War. He was a member of the 49th Ohio Regiment of Minute Men. After Blair arrived in Montana he mined in Virginia City for a while and spent his first winter in Utah. After that he worked in the Last Chance Gulch mine near Helena, Montana, for six years.
In 1872 Blair moved to Helmville, Montana, which is located in the Blackfoot Valley east of Missoula, Montana. He established one of the largest ranches in the state at the time about two miles from Helmville. At one point Blair had 28,000 acres where he mostly raised livestock. He was well known for raising fine breeds of sheep and shorthorn cattle. During this time Blair was elected to Montana’s first state legislature in 1889 as a republican. Blair didn’t know he was nominated and voted for himself thinking the name on the ticket was another man with the same name from Anaconda. While in the legislature he served on the labor committee and was elected again in 1912. Blair sold his ranch in 1910 and established the bank, Blair & Company, in Helmville. He was also involved in the development of the near-by town of Drummond, Montana, where he and his partner financed the building of the Palace Hotel. He also helped to establish Drummond State Bank. Blair was a member of the Montana Pioneers Society. He was known as one of the state’s wealthiest men and held a tremendous amount of deeded land.
Although Congress introduced a forerunner to the Forest Service in 1876 and other forms followed, the United States Forest Service commenced in 1905 under the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Initially, the various geographical areas within the jurisdiction of the USFS across the country were called "districts," but in the 1920s they were renamed "regions." The term "districts" is now applied to ranger districts.
William B. "Scotty" Frame was a resident of Butte, Montana. Frame worked in the Civilian Conservation Corps in northwestern Montana. After his time in the CCC, Frame returned to Butte to practice law. He started his own law firm, Frame, Foley, and Holland. Frame died in 1972.
The Missoula New Party was a progressive political organization formed in the spring of 1993 by a group of Missoula citizens who were motivated to move the political system in a more progressive direction by creating a third party option to the existing two party system. As a local chapter of the national New Party, whose headquarters were located in New York, NY, the Missoula New Party embraced many of the national organization’s guiding principles including electoral reform through electoral fusion. Electoral fusion is a practice in which a candidate receives nominations from more than one political party and can occupy multiple ballot lines. This practice provides an alternative to the notion that third parties function as election spoilers by taking votes away from major party candidates.
One of the organization’s main activities was promoting and supporting the election campaigns of New Party members to local entities including city councils, school boards, and county boards, as well as other local and state level entities. During the mid-1990s multiple New Party members were successfully elected to city council as a result of the New Party’s grassroots campaigning efforts. Other activities included issue-based campaigns, most significantly a Living Wage campaign, which resulted in the city council passing of a living wage ordinance. Other issue-based campaigns included affordable housing, occupancy standards, and smart growth management.
In 1997, a United States Supreme Court decision rejected the New Party’s argument that electoral fusion was a right protected by the first amendment, effectively allowing state legislatures to legally ban electoral fusion as a practice. This significantly impacted the organization’s underlying principle, and led to the eventual dissolution of local New Party chapters around the country, including the Missoula New Party in 2001.
Cora Almira Ball was born on June 20, 1905 in Miner, South Dakota to Mark and Anna Ball. Her parents were homesteaders who later moved the family to Harlowton, Montana. Ball worked at the Mountain States Telephone Company in Conrad, Montana before her marriage to Herman Meister in 1945. She died on January 29, 1980 in Missoula, Montana.
A collection of pamphlets, magazines, booklets and book-length literature, maps, posters, and cartoons dealing with political issues of the First World War.
Herbert David Cogley was born in New Orleans on December 28, 1945. At about one year of age he moved to the Brusett, Montana area. He earned his high school diploma in Jordan, Montana, in 1964. In 1968, Cogley earned a BS in Mechanical Engineering Technology from Montana State University. The same year, he gained a commission as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers through the Reserve Officers Training Corps at Montana State University.
Cogley was stationed in Vietnam for one year, beginning in late 1969, as an engineer with the 326th engineer battalion of the 101st Airborne Division. In November 1970, he was released from active duty, whereupon he returned to the United States. Cogley went on to receive a JD in law at the University of Montana Law School in 1975. He served on the legal staff of the Montana Legislature from 1975 to 1989. Since 1979, he has been owner and manager of Wildwood Log Homes in Clancy, Montana.
Cogley has a wife, Helen, three sons and a daughter.
Garnet, Montana, was founded as a mining town in the 1860s. Now a ghost town, Garnet is located in forested mountains about twenty miles east of Missoula, Montana.
Stewart M. Brandborg was born in Lewiston, Idaho, in February of 1925. His father, Guy M. "Brandy" Brandborg, was the assistant to the forest supervisor on the Nez Perce National Forest. In 1935, the Brandborg family moved to Montana where Guy Brandborg would serve as the forest supervisor for the Bitterroot National Forest for twenty years. In 1943, Stewart Brandborg began university studies at Montana State University in Missoula (now called The University of Montana.) It was here that Stewart met his future wife, Anna Vee Mather. Brandborg graduated in 1947 with a bachelor’s of science in wildlife technologies. He and Anna Vee were married in 1949 and would later have 5 children.
In the late 1940s Brandborg conducted pioneering mountain goat research while working for the Montana Department of Fish and Game. In 1949, while studying for his Master’s degree in Forestry at The University of Idaho, he was a research fellow at the Idaho Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit. Upon graduation (1951), Brandborg conducted research and management investigations on the mountain goat, elk, and other big game species with the Idaho Department of Fish and Game, where he worked through 1953.
In 1954, Brandborg and his family moved to Washington DC where he had taken a position with the National Wildlife Federation as an assistant conservation director. While with the Federation, Brandborg worked with local conservation leaders on proposed dams on the Clearwater River in Idaho. He assisted in extending the Keep America Beautiful program to a state level and oversaw the publication and circulation of conservation literature to the public. In 1956, while still with the National Wildlife Federation, Brandborg was elected to the governing board of The Wilderness Society and in 1960 he was hired by The Wilderness Society as associate executive director. After the death of the director, Howard Zahniser, in 1964, Brandborg became the director of The Wilderness Society.
While at The Wilderness Society, Brandborg faced many challenges and a changing environmental movement. He placed a strong emphasis on working with local groups on conservation issues and stressed the importance of grassroots volunteers. He worked on proposing and supporting wilderness for designation under the newly minted National Wilderness Preservation Act passed in 1964. He also lent the support of The Wilderness Society to stopping a proposal for a Trans-Alaskan pipeline that threatened wilderness and wildlife in Alaska beginning in the late 1960s and the early 1970s. Although the pipeline was eventually built, the efforts of The Wilderness Society led to greater environmental regulations on the pipeline and the eventual declaration of over 100 million acres of parks, refuges, and wild rivers in Alaska. After an acrimonious departure from The Wilderness Society in January of 1977, Brandborg worked as special assistant to the director of The National Park Service until 1981. Iin this position Brandborg was responsible for the development of citizen participation programs to foster communication between The National Park Service and local citizens. In 1982, Brandborg became the national coordinator for The Regional Environmental Leadership Conference Series. Brandborg developed training materials and organized regional conferences to train new leaders in the environmental movement. He worked with The Leadership Series until he left Washington to return to Montana in 1986.
Brandborg returned to Montana's Bitterroot Valley and served as president of the Friends of the Bitterroot from 1988-1990, and with Bitterrooters for Planning. In 1998 he served on the board of directors of Wilderness Watch. He continued to work on environmental issues from his home in Hamilton, Montana, until his death on April 14, 2018.
Phi Kappa Phi is a scholastic honorary society founded in 1897 at the University of Maine. The Montana State University (now the University of Montana) chapter in Missoula was founded in 1954. The society involved itself with: raising funds for student scholarships; recognizing outstanding teachers and students at the university; inviting outside experts on various subject to speak on campus; and encouraging academic excellence in all disciplines.
Helen Katharine Faick was born on February 14, 1903 in Montana. The oldest of Conrad and Margaret Faick's four children, she went on to attend the University of Montana in Missoula from 1920 to 1923. In 1923, she received a scholarship to Radcliffe College and graduated with an art degree in 1926. She then taught art at Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts for two years. Faick eventually moved to New York City and designed greeting cards and wrapping paper for different companies. She would eventually own her own company.
Helen Faick moved to Oregon in 1951 and worked as the graphic artist for the Oregon State System of Higher Education for twelve years. She died on April 23, 1983 in Benton County, Oregon.
Frederick Greenwood attended the University of Montana in Missoula from 1905 to 1909, graduating with his B.A. in 1909. His senior year he was the editor of the school newspaper, the Montana Kaimin, the editor of the 1909 Sentinel yearbook, the manager of the football team, and the president of A.S.U.M. He went on to the Amos Tuck School of Administration and Finance for his Master's degree which he completed in 1910 with his thesis entitled "Underwriting and Underwriting Syndicates." In 1911 he moved to Oregon to search for a job and in 1917 he became the manager of the newly opened Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, Portland Branch. In that position he gave several speeches to Rotary and Kiwanis clubs on global markets, finance, whether to stay on the gold standard or not, and how the Federal Reserve Bank system works. He also wrote several articles on these subjects.
Emma Bravo was born on December 10, 1911 to her Italian parents, Filomena and Giovanni. Her first language was Italian, and her grade school years were spent mastering the English language. In 1929, she graduated from Centerville High School in Sand Coulee, Montana, as valedictorian of her class. Following high school, she enrolled at the University of Montana where she majored in mathematics. She graduated in 1933 and returned to Sand Coulee where she taught mathematics, Latin, and Spanish at her former high school.
In 1937, Emma Bravo returned to the University of Montana and worked as a personal secretary to Dr. N.J. Lennes. She was also working towards her Masters in mathematics, which she graduated with in 1939. Emma married Tom Lommasson in 1939 and helped raise his son, Tom. The Lommassons were married for 30 years; Tom Lommasson died in December of 1969.
By the start of World War II, Lommasson was an instructor in the University of Montana Mathematics Department. She taught in a program designed to prepare young men for service in the Air Force, teaching courses such as Navigation, Civil Air Regulation, and Airplane Identification. Following the war, the University of Montana selected Lommasson as the Veterans Advisor and the Assistant Registrar. She served for 17 years as advisor for the University’s Air Force ROTC Angel Flight, and also became the University’s Registrar and the Associate Director of Admissions and Records. In 2001, the building housing the university’s administrative offices was renamed the Emma B. Lommasson Center in her honor.
Emma Lommasson passed away on November 30, 2019 at the age of 107.
The Metal Mine Workers' Union developed from the labor unrest in Butte, Montana in 1917. The copper mines of Butte produced a strong union presence in the city; by 1887, all of the city's mines were unionized. This "closed shop" persisted until 1914 when internal struggles destroyed the once powerful Butte Miners' Union of the Western Federation of Miners and opened the mines to corporate control.
In early June of 1917, a fire in the Granite Mountain and Speculator Mine shafts killed 168 miners. Several days later, miners began to walk off the job at copper mines all over the city in protest of the poor working conditions. A meeting was organized and the Metal Mine Workers' Union, an unaffiliated and independent union, formed less than two weeks after the Speculator Mine fire. The new union immediately petitioned the operating companies for recognition of their union, safer working conditions, and wage increases. By the end of June, other trade unions, including the Electricians, Boilermakers, Blacksmiths, and Metal Trades Machinists of Butte, joined the miners in their strike.
The companies resisted the mining union organizers' efforts and chose to work with the other trade unions, acquiescing to many of their demands in hopes of isolating the miners' union and forcing and end to the strike. By the end of July, most of the other trade unions had reached a deal and returned to work. The miners' union continued to strike through 1917, however, many miners returned to work before its official end. The Metal Mine Workers' Union officially called off the strike on December 18, 1917.
Disability Services for Students at the University of Montana in Missoula serves students with disabilities by ensuring that all programs are usable and accessible. In the early 1980s, at the urging of various university departments in response to a bill in the Montana House of Representatives that requested funding for handicapped services for the Commissioner of Higher Education, the University of Montana began exploring options for providing services to its disabled students. A Task Force for Handicapped Services was established with approval from University President Richard Bowers. The task force charged itself with creating a comprehensive list of handicapped students and the services they required as well as determining the cost of such services and possible resources for funding.
In 1988, the Alliance for Disability and Students at the University of Montana (ADSUM) was founded in response to continued access problems for UM students with disabilities. That same year, the University hired Jim Marks as its first disability student advisor to directly oversee students with disabilities and their needs. This position would eventually form the foundation of the Disability Services for Students department at the University of Montana (the first standalone office in support of students with disabilities). By 1989, Jim Marks would be the first coordinator of Disability Services for Students. By 1990, the new office of Disability Services for Students started publishing an official handbook to outline the services available. As of 2015, Disability Services for Students works with individual students to provide reasonable modifications to make programs and facilities accessible.
Ernest Millikan opened the Bitter Root Market in 1932 at 801 South Higgins in Missoula, Montana. By the early 1960s, signs and advertising listed the store as the Bitterroot Market. By 1946 the market had a plant nursery in back and announced the opening of the Bitter Root Flower Shop. On June 3, 1987, the Bitterroot Market closed its doors after 55 years of business.
Robert H. "Ty" Robinson was born on January 25, 1916 in the town of Columbia Falls, Montana. Robinson's nickname "Ty" originated from a man Robinson's father had played baseball with: Ty Cobb. Ty Robinson was raised in six different towns from a young age, including Kalispell and Whitefish. He graduated from Flathead County High School in 1933, where he played basketball. In 1935, Robinson entered the University of Montana as an undergraduate student. From 1937-1939, Robinson played on the University of Montana Men's Basketball team. In 1940, Robinson graduated from the University of Montana with a Bachelor's degree in history and political science.
After graduating from the University of Montana, Robinson worked for the Department of Justice, slowly working his way up the ranks. He entered the military in 1943, and served until 1946 as "commissioned on staff" and commander on the Service Force Pacific Fleet in the U.S. Navy. Upon completion of service in 1946, Robinson returned to the University of Montana, where he graduated with his Juris Doctor degree in 1948. After graduating in 1948, Robinson was admitted into practice in the same year, then entering the Missoula Mercantile work force as in-house counsel. Starting in 1950, Robinson taught in the University of Montana School of Business and Business Law for 11 years. In 1954, Robinson became a partner in the law firm, Garlington, Lohn, and Robinson, from which he retired in 1987 to become "of counsel." In 1971, Robinson was sworn in by the Montana Supreme Court to the Montana Constitutional Convention Commission.
Robinson was an active member of the Montana community, serving on boards and civic councils with a range of missions. Some of Robinson's contributions include serving as a past president of the Missoula Rotary Club, a member of the Missoula Chamber of Commerce, a member of the Community Medical Center Foundation, and a past president of the Western Montana Council of Boy Scouts. Robinson was active in civil affairs on the state, county, and city levels, where his focus was on education, health, and the environment.
Robinson married his wife, Jean E. Fritz, on November 23, 1939, and had two children, John and Laird. Ty Robinson died in Missoula March 27, 2018 at the age of 102.
Harold Guy Merriam was born September 6, 1883, at Westminster, Massachusetts. He was graduated from Denver (Colorado) High School in June 1902, and entered the University of Wyoming where he majored in science and the classics. He received his BA from Wyoming in 1905. In 1904 he was chosen to be a member of the first group of Rhodes Scholars. He attended Lincoln College, Oxford University, where he was enrolled in the honors school in English language and literature. He was awarded a BA from Oxford in 1907 and an MA in 1912.
Merriam taught at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, from 1908 to 1910. In the fall of 1910, he enrolled at Harvard University as an Austin Fellow. Merriam left Harvard, where he studied drama, after the fall term to teach a Beloit College in Wisconsin, where he remained until 1913. He then taught at Reed College in Portland, Oregon, until 1919. During World War I, Merriam took a leave of absence from his teaching career and went with the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) to France, where he taught English to French officers. After the Armistice he was transferred to London, where he assisted American officers and enlisted men in entering British universities.
The University of Montana hired him in 1919 to teach English and to chair the English department. Merriam introduced creative writing into the curriculum. To encourage his students to write, he began editing their works and publishing them in a new magazine, the Frontier. This later merged with the Midland, published in Iowa City, IA, to form Frontier and Midland. This well-respected regional literary magazine encouraged students and writers not only from Montana, but from throughout the Pacific Northwest. The publication featured the early efforts of regional writers A.B. Guthrie, Dorothy M. Johnson, Helen Addison Howard, Grace Stone Coates, and others. Publication of the journal continued until 1939.
Merriam began a series of writer's conferences in Montana in the summer of 1930. These short conferences offered creative writers the opportunity to work with such nationally known writers as Struthers Burt, Mary Austin, Frank Ernest Hill, and others. The conferences continued through the summer of 1934, were suspended until 1948 and continued through the summer of 1960. Following the formation of the Montana Academy of Sciences in 1940, Merriam formulated the idea for the Montana Institute of the Arts, which was founded in 1948. He served as its first president and in 1957 became the editor of the Montana Institute of the Arts Quarterly, a position he filled until 1964.
From 1907 to 1919, the University of Montana had no Rhodes Scholars. Merriam became very active in the program; with his encouragement, sixteen University of Montana students went to Oxford between 1919 and 1970. He was an enthusiastic supporter of the program and served many years on its regional and local committees. In 1933, in addition to his duties as chairman of the English department, Merriam was appointed chairman of the Division of Humanities, a new concept in University administration. He continued carrying the two assignments until his retirement in 1954. In December 1935, Merriam was appointed state supervisor of the Federal Writers' Project. His efforts culminated in the publication of Montana, A State Guide Book in 1939. He also took leave from the University of Montana in 1939 to teach at the University of Oregon in Eugene, and earned his PhD in English from Columbia University.
Merriam was instrumental in the recognition of the importance and accomplishments of American and Northwest writers. Prior to his work and that of others, literary studies in the United States were largely confined to British authors; an individual with a college degree in English would usually have studied no American authors. In recognition of his accomplishments, the University of Wyoming awarded him an LLD in 1962, citing his record as "Rhodes Scholar, professor of literature, founder and editor of magazines for new writers in the Northwest, anthropologist of regional writing, pioneer in the discovery of the cultural potentialities of his region." In 1963, an honorary LLD followed from the University of Montana Missoula. In 1978, he was honored at the 75th dinner celebration of the Rhodes Scholars in New York.
He married Doris W. Foote in 1915. They had two children, Alan and Alison. Doris Merriam died in 1970, and he married Frances Dummer Logan in 1974. H. G. Merriam died in Missoula, Montana, in March 1980.
Biography of Meyer Chessin
Meyer “Mike” Chessin was born on February 2, 1921 in New York City. He moved to California at age 16. After high school, he attended UCLA and received an A.A. degree in Plant studies in 1939. Chessin then attended UC-Berkeley where he received a B.S. degree in Plant Pathology in 1941. He enlisted in the military in 1943. While serving in the military, Chessin attended three semesters of communication engineering courses at Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. While in Columbus he met his wife, Florence. In 1945, Chessin served abroad in Kwajalein Island, Marshall Islands and Berlin, Germany.
Chessin left the military in 1946 and attended UC-Berkley, earning his Ph.D. in Plant Physiology in 1950. Chessin moved to Missoula and began work as a professor at The University of Montana, Department of Botany in 1949. He worked at the University until his retirement in 1990, when he received professor emeriti status.
Chessin’s scholarly research interests included plant physiology, pathology, photobiology and virology. He was an active researcher and collaborated in domestic and foreign research. He completed fellowships in plant pathology at Harpenden, England and in physical chemistry at the University of Minnesota. He attended institutes on both desert and tropical biology in Arizona and Costa Rica respectively. He directed research for the Bi-national Agricultural Research and Development (BARD) program based in Israel from 1975-1981. He served as a Fulbright lecturer traveling to Romania in 1971 and 1975 and to Bulgaria in 1980. He served as a consulting editor for Environment magazine.
Chessin was also interested in broader environmental and civic issues including herbicides and pesticides, solid waste management, the effects of nuclear weapons and radiation and disarmament. Chessin advised state and local Weed Management committees on herbicides and biological control issues. He was instrumental in establishing the Western Montana Scientists Committee for Public Information, which conducted public Solid Waste Workshops throughout Montana and Idaho. Chessin has been a peace activist since 1946. In a 2003 interview for the Veterans History Project, Chessin credits his military experience with sparking his interest in the peace movement and disarmament.
Between 1867 and 1876 citizens in Missoula, Montana Territory, pleaded, protested, and petitioned for a military post. While Indian problems usually initiated each round of concern, local newspapers editorials touted the value of a military presence for encouraging immigration and business. In 1876, the War Department approved a company post and appropriated funds. Construction began in the summer of 1877 but Indian trouble delayed the work. Barracks and non-commissioned officer's quarters were completed in February 1878, and in mid-summer of the same year officer's quarters were finished.
On May 12, 1896, Fort Missoula's 2nd Lieutenant James A. Moss received permission to organize the 25th Infantry Bicycle Corps, the first of its kind in the country. The Corps, consisting of eight black enlisted men, practiced riding in formation, drilling, scaling fences up to nine-feet high, fording streams, and pedaling 40 miles a day. After a successful trek to Yellowstone National Park, the Corps took on the challenge of riding from Missoula to St. Louis, Missouri. That forty-one day journey in the summer of 1897 was the last for the Bicycle Corps. By 1898 war with Spain was probable and military priorities shifted.
Fort Missoula remained active for a number of years as a military installation. It also housed the Civilian Conservation Corps during the 1930s and Italian, German, and Japanese internees during WWII. There were no regular military forces at Fort Missoula after 1947.
Fort Missoula was formally decommissioned in April, 2001.
Vada Keller Albin was born October 27, 1901. She married Billings, Montana, store owner Berthold Richard Albin in 1935. She died September 21, 1988 in Billings.
Steve Waldron was born September 19, 1946, in Crosby, Minnesota. He moved to Butte, Montana, in 1949 and attended Butte schools. In 1967, he moved to Missoula, Montana, where he was a sawmill worker.
Waldron served in the Montana House of Representatives from 1977 to 1985, representing Missoula Districts 97 and 58 as a Democrat. He focused on issues related to women, workers, and education.
Leo A. Rhein, Jr. was born in Helena, Montana, on July 29, 1919. He spent all but three of his early years in Wolf Creek, Montana, and attended high school in Big Fork and Helena, Montana. He graduated from Helena in 1938. He continued his education at the University of Wisconsin from 1945 to 1947 and at the University of Montana from 1947 to 1950, graduating with a B.S. in Forestry.
In 1935, Rhein enlisted in the Montana National Guard, and he was called to active duty with the 41st Infantry Division in 1940. From 1942 to 1945, he served in the Pacific Theatre during which he attended the Officer Candidates School. He graduated with the rank of 2nd lieutenant in 1943. He was separated from active duty in 1945, but was later recalled to active duty in 1951. During his military career, Rhein was stationed at posts around the United States, Europe, and the Caribbean. He retired from the U.S. Army with the rank LTC with the Corps of Engineers in 1968. Upon Rhein's retirement from the military, he worked for the Bureau of Land Management between 1968 and 1978. After his retirement from the BLM, he traveled around the United States and Canada.
Rhein was married to his wife, Claire, for 54 years. She was born in Dagsboro, DE., on Aug. 19, 1922, the daughter of Nelson and Viola Kassay. Claire served in the U.S. Navy during World War II in Washington, D.C., as yeoman first-class in Adm. Hyman G. Rickover's office, until honorably discharged in 1945. Claire then attended the University of Wisconsin in Madison, where she met and married Leo. She moved to his home state of Montana, where she attended the University of Montana in 1947. She was an Army wife from 1951 to 1968, living in Europe and the Caribbean, as well as numerous Army posts across the United States. They returned to Montana in 1967.
For years she was an active member of the Stevensville Historical Society and one of the authors of "Montana Genesis," published in 1971. She had a fascination for local and state history, as well as a great affection for and involvement in Fort Owen, located in Stevensville. In September of 1986, she was presented with the Montana Historical Society Trustees' Award for Contributions to Montana History. Beginning in 1974, the Rheins donated over 20 years of volunteer service to the K. Ross Toole Archives. Claire was the founder of the oral history program at the Mansfield Library and was active with the Stevensville Historical Society and the Historical Museum at Fort Missoula.
The Rheins had nine children. Claire Rhein died on February 14, 2001, and Leo Rhein died on January 6, 2017.
From around 1897 to the 1960s The University of Montana-Missoula teams were represented by a live bear cub mascot. Through the years mascots had names such as Teddy, Cocoa and Chester as well as Fessy I, II, and III, in honor of famed football coach Doug Fessenden, and Jerry, in honor of coach Jerry Williams. The end of the football season was also the end of each bear's career as a mascot as it had grown beyond a manageable size. Some former mascots were released and others transferred to zoo-type facilities.
Mascots during the 1970s and 1980s did not wear the university logo and usually represented a local company or larger corporation. Those mascots included the Hamms Beer Bear, the radio station KYLT chicken, a sandwich shop's Piccolo Pete, the Domino's Pizza mascot, and Ronald McDonald. Sometime in the 1980s Grizzly Auto sponsored the mascot, "Grizzly Otto." Early costumed bear mascots such as Otto were more ferocious and aggressive and less playful and engaged with the audience.
After consultation with mascot experts, the current Monte costumed bear mascot debuted in 1993 with an engaging look and a fun, energetic personality.
David H. Linebarger was born in December 1837, in Missouri. By at least 1877, he resided in Montana and was active in community and state politics as Treasurer of Jefferson County, Montana, and his later work with the Democratic Executive Committee from his home in Gilt Edge, Montana. Although listed as a day laborer in the 1900 Montana census, prior to and after that time, David H. Linebarger worked as a miner and speculated in a variety of mining operations in and around Gilt Edge, Montana.
By 1900 David H. Linebarger had been married to Dora Linebarger for some time. Dora Linebarger was born in April, 1868, in Missouri. At the time of the 1900 census, the Linebarger's had a daughter, Maud, born in August, 1891, and a son, Walter L., born in 1893. The couple had at least one more son, Elmer Clinton, who was born March 12, 1905. Dora Linebarger likely worked as a laundress to support herself and family as David A. Linebarger, thirty years her senior, grew infirm and then died. By 1920, Dora, Walter, and fourteen-year-old Elmer Linebarger all lived in Garfield County, Montana. Twenty-seven-year-old Walter Linebarger listed his occupation as farmer in the 1920 Montana census. Dora Linebarger died in the early months of 1945.
By the time of the Great Depression, Elmer C. Linebarger still lived in Garfield County and in 1935 received a federal crop loan for his mother's farm, as well as one for his own farm in 1936. In 1936 Elmer Linebarger took a job as the Commodity Clerk for the Garfield County Relief Office. He held this position at least until 1940. Elmer and his wife Pearl had a baby girl, Doloris Jean, on October 28, 1939. In late 1942 through a war service appointment, he became a Driver Firefighter in the Fort Peck District of Montana. According to family correspondence, Elmer Linebarger and his family were still in Fort Peck, Montana, in 1945.
Yegen, Talmage, and Company was a general merchandise firm in Red Lodge, Montana.
The library at the University of Montana in Missoula began with University President Oscar Craig’s daughter, Mary, presiding over 817 volumes at the university’s first campus, the old Willard School building. By the end of the first academic year, the collection had grown to 1,369 books, 19 periodicals, and 20 newspaper subscriptions. The library later moved to University Hall.
Librarian and Professor Gertrude Buckhous served from 1902 to 1931 and built the first comprehensive library program. She received advanced study at Columbia University in New York City and was active in national and international library associations. A Missoula, Montana native and University of Montana graduate, she also administered the library economy program. Highlights of her administration include the construction and occupation of the first library building (now Jeannette Rankin Hall) in 1908 and construction and occupation of a second library building (now the Social Sciences Building) in 1922. Miss Buckhous died in 1931.
Librarian and Professor Philip Keeney served from 1931 to 1940, though he was absent during the lawsuit over his employment from 1937 to 1940. He was a graduate of the University of California School of Librarianship (certificate 1927) and the University of Michigan Graduate School (MA in history and library science 1930). He was active in the Pacific Northwest Library Association. His administration was marked by conflict and strife; the Board of Regents ordered removal of certain materials from library in 1935 and he refused to comply with their move to censor materials. The Board requested Keeney’s resignation in April 1937. After a lengthy lawsuit with the university, he resigned in 1940 for a position at the Library of Congress.
Executive Librarian and Professor Kathleen Campbell served from the fall of 1939 to the spring of 1966. She arrived on temporary assignment during Keeney’s absence, but was officially appointed to the position following his resignation in 1940. A graduate of the University of Denver School of Librarianship, she was active in the Pacific Northwest Library Association, the Montana Library Association, and the American Library Association. She also served as professor in the UM’s Library Economy department. Highlights of her administration include renovation of the second library building to accommodate growth, planning for the third library building, and the beginnings of the Archives program.
Dean of Library Services Earl Thompson served from 1964 to 1982, replacing Campbell the last two years of her administration. He earned a MA in history from Duke University (1951), a MLn (Master of Librarianship) from Emory University (1951) and did graduate work in history at Louisiana State University. Before he moved to Montana, he was Associate Dean of Libraries at Louisiana State University. Thompson was active in the Pacific Northwest Library Association, the American Library Association, and the Montana Library Association. His administration planned the construction and move to the library’s present location, laid groundwork for automation, extended participation in interlibrary loan efforts, hired additional faculty, and merged with the Forestry Library. The library building was named for Maureen and Mike Mansfield in 1979.
Dean of Library Services Ruth Patrick served from 1983 to 1990. She came from Wayne State University and held a PhD in Library Science from the University of California, Berkeley. Highlights of her administration included planning for automation and a major reorganization of staff and faculty.
Dean of Library Services Karen Hatcher served from 1991 to 2000. She was active in the Montana Library Association and Pacific Northwest Library Association. Highlights of her administration included automation, planning for future automation systems, and the inclusion of other Montana campuses under the library’s administration.
The Railsbacks were an early ranching family from Billings, Montana. Edmund O. and Lucy Railsback were the parents of Jesse and Edna Railsback. Edmund was a former stockman who died in 1946 at the estimated age of 86. He resided in Billings from the 1890s until 1941. He spent the last 5 years of his life at the Masonic home in Helena. He had been active in Masonic lodges throughout most of his life. His wife, Lucy Railsback, an early school teacher in the Billings schools, died in 1926. Their daughter, Jessie Railsback, was a student at the University of Montana and a member of the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority. She was a sophomore in 1914, when the majority of her letters were written. Edna lived in Billings during the years of this collection and also spent time in Illinois.
Gillette E. Van Buren was born George Van Buren in Wisconsin in August of 1851. By 1880 he lived in Carleton, Nebraska, with his wife Mary and their two children, Florence and Richard. By 1885, the couple had moved to Stanton, Nebraska and had two more children, George Albert Jr. and Mary. According to family members, Gillette left his children with relatives in Nebraska after Mary’s untimely death in June 1885.
The widower married again in 1888 in Wyoming, having changed his name from George to Gillette. He and his second wife Katherine had six children: Carrie, Grace, Daniel, Frederick, Gillette, and Frank. In 1890 and his family settled on a tract of land near the Rattlesnake Creek north of Missoula, Montana. Van Buren wrote for many local newspapers and Democratic Party publications, including the Western Democrat, Montana Silverite (later the Montana Fruit-Grower), and the Missoula Democrat. Family members report that Van Buren served as a scout during the Indian Wars in Texas and Nebraska. He penned this diary in 1898 while living in the Hellgate Township of Missoula County. Van Buren committed suicide on January 18, 1903 at his cabin in the Rattlesnake Valley. He was 53 years old.
Merrill K. Riddick was born on March 7, 1895 in Madison, Wisconsin. He moved to eastern Montana at the age of 11. His father, Carl Riddick, served two terms as a U.S. Congressman for the Eastern District of Montana in 1919 and 1921. At the age of 16 Merrill K. Riddick began traveling throughout the Northwest and became interested in the emerging field of aviation. In 1917, Riddick was a member of the first graduating class from the Army Air Force Aeronautics School in San Diego, California. He was sent to Europe during World War I to serve as an instructor and to fly reconnaissance.
After the war, Riddick was among the first airmail pilots. Riddick and Charles A. Lindbergh barnstormed together and flew in the Harry Perkins Air Circus. While barnstorming Riddick met and married (on the same day) his wife, Helen May Williams, from West Virginia. They had three children. In 1928, Riddick was an instructor at the first aviation preparatory school in Rochester, New York, where he instructed future president Franklin D. Roosevelt. Riddick re-joined the Air Force during World War II and served as a technical instructor.
Riddick moved back to Montana after the war but continued traveling. After his wife's death in 1949, Riddick became involved in politics. He was a resident of Granite County during his political campaigns, which were centered around natural resource management and campaign finance reform. He wrote and published the Journal of Applied Human Ecology, which focused on his plans for resource development. He ran for Montana governor in 1968, U.S. Congress in 1972, and was a presidential candidate in 1976, 1980, and 1984, but never won an election. Riddick ran for his self-created political party, the Magneto-hydrodynamics-Puritan Epic-Prohibition Party, and would not accept campaign contributions. Riddick campaigned across the nation, traveling only by passenger bus. After his presidential campaigns Riddick moved to Annapolis, Maryland, and lived with his sister, Ruth. Riddick died on March 9, 1988, in Annapolis.
Jo Stepanoff, also known as Josephine R. Stepanoff, lived with her husband, Alex M. Stepanoff, in Missoula, Montana, from 1939 until 1991. Alex Stepanoff, who was born in Harbin, Manchuria, was the University of Montana's first foreign exchange student. After attending more college in the East, Stepanzoff returned to Missoula where he met his wife. He conducted the City Band there for more than fifty years while managing the Bon Ton Bakery, which was owned by Jo Stepanoff's father. In the late 1960s he became the sales director for Continental Baking. Jo Stepanoff was one of the editors of a collection of poems entitled Seedlings: poems / by poets of the Montana Institute of the Arts published in 1973. Several of her poems appear in the book.
Matthew Alan Redinger graduated from the University of Montana with a master's degree in history in 1988. His master's thesis was entitled The Civilian Conservation Corps as a tool of the National Park Service: The Development of Glacier and Yellowstone National Parks, 1933-1942. Redinger studied under H. Duane Hampton in the history department. Upon graduation Redinger moved to Seattle to continue his studies at the University of Washington. He completed his Ph.D. in 1993.
Lowndes Maury was born in Butte, Montana, in 1911 to H. Lowndes Maury and Anne Perkins Maury. He learned piano from his mother. In 1931, he graduated from the University of Montana--Missoula and went on to study piano and composition in Chicago. He also studied with Arnold Schoenberg in Boston.
Beginning in the 1930s, he built a career in Hollywood as a pianist, composer-arranger, and conductor. For a time he worked as a composer, arranger, pianist, and organist on twelve radio shows simultaneously, including the Eddie Cantor and Jack Haley shows Life with Father and The Life of Riley. He wrote film scores for Universal Pictures studios, for U.S. Air Force training films, and for the Mr. Magoo cartoons. He was also a contract pianist for Twentieth-Century Fox studios.
He also composed considerable "serious" music. Among his major works is the cantata Proud Music of the Storm (Walt Whitman), commissioned for the dedication of the new music building at the University of Montana in 1953. Other commissioned works included "Summer of Green," a rhapsody for alto flute and string orchestra, which was premiered by the New Zealand National Orchestra; "Night Life," for Kurt Reher, principal cellist with the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra; and Man is My Song, a cantata written for the First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles.
In later years, he established the Lou Muary Piano School in North Hollywood. There his interest in the pedagogy of music resulted in two volumes of student and artist piano pieces called New Soundings. He also developed a new approach to music notation with Ralph Cromleigh, a computer analyst for Teledyne Systems, and brought out four volumes of Magic Lines and Spaces.
His Variations on a Beethoven Theme was commissioned and recorded by harpsichordist Igor Kipnis, and his violin sonata In Memory of the Korean War Dead was recorded by the composer with violinist Myron Sandler.
In 1964, he was cited by the Montana Territorial Centennial Committee for distinguished service in the field of original composition. In 1974, the University of Montana awarded him an honorary Doctor of Letters.
He died in 1975.
Joseph Edward Kirkwood was born in 1872. He earned his bachelors degree from Pacific University in 1898, a master's from Princeton University in 1902, and a Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1903. He served in many positions in the New York Botanical Garden, the Continental-Mexican Rubber Company, and the Carnegie Institution Desert Laboratory. In 1909, he became a professor of Botany and Forestry at the University of Montana; he became professor of Botany, and head of that department, in 1914. He undertook a trip through the national forests in Montana and Idaho in 1910. Morton J. Elrod provided funding from the budget of the University of Montana Biological Station on Flathead Lake. Kirkwood died in 1928.
Evelyn M. Rhoden lived in Roundup, Montana when she was employed by the Federal Writer’s Project of the Works Project Administration during the late 1930s and early 1940s.
Earl Ray Truman was born October 24, 1890, in Estella, Wisconsin. After coming to the Gateway, Montana, area around 1913, he worked in the woods as a logger. In the 1920s he homesteaded in the area and raised livestock. He also cut Christmas trees each fall during the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s.
Truman never married and spent most of his years in Montana on his island homestead in the middle of the Kootenai River, communicating with the rest of the world by boat. He died on November 2,1965 in Lincoln County, Montana.
Gertrude Hutchinson Merritt was born on July 5, 1902 in New York City to Alfred and Marry Zimmerman, East Prussian immigrants. After her parents separated, she lived in an orphanage for several years, then in foster care and finally in 1911, was back with her father, stepmother and siblings. She attended Columbia School of Librarianship. Merritt worked for the New York Public Library, the Book of the Month Club, in the publishing business and briefly ran a bookstore on lower Fifth Avenue in New York City.
Merritt traveled to the USSR and worked for the Moscow Daily News twice during the 1930s. She traveled to Columbia in 1938 and after U.S. entry into World War II, she moved to the Panama Canal Zone where she was the first medical librarian at Gorgas Hospital until her departure in 1948. Merritt acquired more library training at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. From there she was at UNESCO in Paris in 1949 and in 1950 went to Geneva, Switzerland in 1950, as the assistant to the chief of the World Health Organization Library for three years.
Merritt moved to San Francisco, California, in 1953. In 1954 she met Richard L. Merritt, who became her husband. That same year, Merritt took the position of medical librarian at the new Kaiser Foundation Hospital where she worked until she retired in 1966. She died May 17, 1971
The National Smokejumper Association (NSA) is an organization which preserves and shares the history of aerial fire management and provides a forum for those associated with wildland firefighting. Founded in 1992, the NSA maintains a roster of current and former smokejumpers and actively collects the histories of individuals and organizations associated with the development of smokejumping and aerial fire management.In addition to furthering the legacy of smokejumping, the NSA works to support current and former smokejumpers as well as the forests and rangelands they protect. The organization offers support to smokejumpers and their families through a scholarship program and a "Good Samaritan Fund," offering financial support to those in need. Additionally, the Trails Restoration and Maintenance Projects, organized by NSA members and staffed by volunteers, clears trails in wilderness areas using volunteer teams. Established in 1999 by Jon McBride and Art Jukkala, the program utilizes the NSA's network of former smokejumpers to clear trails of debris, build fences, and restore structures in national forests and parks.
Melvin "Dutch" Hedine was born on December 29, 1913, in Montana. His parents were Alfred and Josephine Hedine. Hedine graduated from Missoula County High School and attended the University of Montana. At the university, he was active with the Masquers drama club theatre productions between 1930 and 1935. Hedine graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Journalism in 1935. Hedine went on to receive a P.P.A. from the Los Angeles Art Center School and an Education Credential at Los Angeles State College. During World War II, he served as a U.S. Army combat photographer. In the early 1950s, he remained in the U.S. armed services.
Melvin Hedine went on to work as a technical illustrator at Hoffmann Electronics, Miller Dial, and Lockheed Aircraft Co. He was also involved in producing educational filmstrips and national display photography. Hedine had photography accounts with such companies as Chanel, Sunkist, and Max Factor. He was a senior precision photographer at Northrop Laboratories for a period of time. At Northrop, Hedine worked on electronic circuitry and in the early 1960s, he developed new procedures to reduce photograph development time. Hedine died on May 7, 1982 and is buried at Riverside National Cemetery in Escondido, CA.
The J. Neils Lumber Company was incorporated in 1895 at Sauk Rapids, Minnesota. After several years of successful operation and expansion on Sauk Rapids and Cass Lake, Minnesota, the company purchased timberlands in Flathead and Lincoln counties, Montana, in 1906-1907. About one million dollars was invested in timber, priced generally at $1 per thousand board feet. In 1911, J. Neils bought the Dawson Lumber Company, with mills in Libby, Montana, and about ten thousand acres of timberlands in surrounding areas. After Paul Neils, son of founder Julius Neils, became general and sales manager at Libby in 1912, earnings climbed rapidly. A division of assets in 1915 resulted in the loss of the Libby mill, 96,666 acres of Montana timberlands, and other Montana assets. J. Neils retained Montana timberlands at Columbia Falls, Fortine Creek, and east of Flathead Lake as well as notes for $550,000. Paul Niels returned to Minnesota where he stepped up those operations and steadily increased earnings in 1917 and 1918. In 1919, the Libby mill and tributary timber lands were re-purchased from Shevlin Company.
The operations at Cass Lake and Libby prospered after World War I. By 1923, the last log had been sawn at Cass Lake. With no more timber available for purchase there, the mill there closed. Looking westward, the company purchased a mill at Klickitat, Washington, in 1922 and continued to increase its Montana timber holdings. There was a major fire loss at Columbia Falls in 1929. After difficult times in the Depression, long-range planning was again established and selective logging studies undertaken. Truck logging began at Libby in 1935.
The entire outstanding stock of the Montana Light & Power Company was acquired by J. Neils in 1944. In 1955, J. Neils built a new mill at Troy, Montana. In 1957, J. Neils Lumber Company merged with St. Regis Paper Company. A stud mill was built at Libby in 1958, and a plywood plant began operations in 1960. In 1993, the Libby assets were sold to Stimson Lumber and Plum Creek Timber Company. The Libby mill closed in 2002.
The School of Journalism was founded at what is now The University of Montana-Missoula in 1914. In 1930, Journalism acquired a “mechanical laboratory,” or printing press, and added instruction in the use of type and typographical composition to the curriculum. The university printing press was housed in Journalism until the mid 1990s.
Alice Jane Myers was born in Scotland County, Missouri, on 6 September 1860. She married William D. Lear in Millport, Missouri on 11 February 1879. She was the mother of four children, a son and her only daughter dying in childhood. According to the 1900 US Census, Alice Lear and her husband were living in Corvallis, Montana, with their two children, James and Paul. She died in Corvallis in March of 1936.
Edward "Stan" Healy was born in Missoula, Montana, on July 19, 1918 to Edward and Emma Healy. He attended Whittier Grade School and graduated from Missoula County High School. In 1941, he graduated from the University of Montana with a bachelor's degree in journalism.
During World War II, Healy served in the U.S. Army from 1941 to 1945. In 1946, he began his career at the Missoulian as a reporter and photographer. He worked there until 1961, when he transitioned to freelance writing and photography. He worked primarily from Missoula but also traveled to other parts of the country to sell pictures to papers. He completed photo-based stories about Memphis, Tennessee, and the steel mills of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Healy served on the Missoula City Council for seventeen years, representing Ward 2, the Northside Neighborhood. When Interstate Highway 90 was developed, the government demanded demolition of many Northside homes. Healy challenged the highway department to save his childhood home and others in the neighborhood. He was also interested in automobiles, cameras, electronics, and non-conforming modes of gender expression.
Healy suffered a heart attack in 1979, prompting his move to a nursing home. He died on March 27, 1996 in Missoula.
The Phi Sigma Society is an honorary society in the Biological Sciences, including the studies of Zoology, Botany, Microbiology, Geology, Bacteriology, Anthropology, and many other fields. The University of Montana’s Lambda Chapter was chartered in 1921, due to the efforts of Professor Morton J. Elrod, first chair of the science department. Other charter members included Dr. Jessie M. Bierman, the noted pediatrician, and Dr. Joseph E. Kirwood, an early University of Montana professor.
The Phi Sigma Society, Lambda Chapter (University of Montana) probably became inactive in the mid-1960s.
Henry G. Valiton was born August, 1842 in Montbeliard, France, and immigrated to the United States with his parents at age nine. They settled in Dubuque, Iowa. In 1859 he went to St. Joseph, Missouri, and within a year to Pike's Peak where he mined for two years at Delaware Flats in Summit County, Colorado. In 1864 he went north out of United States territories to prospect and run a saloon. In 1865 he moved to Montana Territory to mine at Blackfoot and Confederate gulches. He first engaged in a livery business in Deer Lodge City in Montana Territory in 1867 with Mr. Hardenbrook and then in 1879 he formed a partnership with William Owsley and opened a livery stable in Butte, Montana Territory.
He married Mary M. Rhea, originally of Michigan, in December 1881. Mary's family moved to Montana Territory when she was two years old. By 1910, the couple had two grown children, Augusta and Fred, and by 1914, a grandson, Donald. Mary Valiton, about twenty years younger than her husband, was active in the Society of Montana Pioneers for many years.
Founded in 1978, the Rural Institute for Inclusive Communities was originally called the Montana University Affiliated Program Satellite (MUAPS), and was located at the University of Montana in Missoula. MUAPS was one of 43 university-affiliated programs in the United States that focused on improving and developing services for the developmentally disabled. It was funded through the federal Administration on Developmental Disabilities. In 1990 MUAPS became known as the Montana University Affiliated Rural Institute on Disabilities, and it consolidated with the Research and Training Center on Rural Rehabilitation Services. The Research and Training Center (RTC) was established in October 1987 at the University of Montana to pursue research and training for the purpose of assisting persons with disabilities in rural communities. It was one of 35 centers in the United States funded by the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research of the federal Department of Education. The consolidation broadened the program’s scope and combined a variety of services such as a new clinic operation.
By the early 2000s, the Institute’s name had changed to the University of Montana Rural Institute, and by 2017 it had become the University of Montana Rural Institute for Inclusive Communities. The Rural Institute’s main focus is to assist existing programs, professionals and individuals who provide services for persons with disabilities in rural areas.
Patricia O’Connell was born on October 9, 1920 in Watkins, Minnesota to Joe and Helen Finley. She attended grade school in Carthage, South Dakota, high school in Billings, Montana, and graduated with a teaching degree from The University of Montana in Missoula. She taught grade school in Ennis, Montana for one year before marrying C. J. O’Connell in 1946 in Missoula. The couple moved to Bozeman at that time. After her husband passed away in 1971, she moved to Billings for a short time and then to Polson where she lived from 1975 to 1994. She then moved to Wenatchea, Washington where she lived at the time of her death on April 29, 1996.
Mrs. O’Connell was a member of several historical groups and did research on the exploration and settlement of Montana. She was particularly interested in the arrival and work of Ursuline nuns in Montana, primarily at the missions on reservations, and especially the life of Mother Amadeus.
The University of Montana in Missoula was founded in 1893 and opened to students on September 11, 1895. Oscar J. Craig was the institution's first President and there were four additional faculty members. From 1895-1898 classes were held in the South Side school on South Sixth Street. The cornerstone for University (Main) Hall was laid in 1898, but Science Hall was the first building on campus to be completed.
Although a comprehensive history of UM has yet to be written, H. G. Merriam's book The University of Montana: A History is a published source for information about university history up to the 1960s.
The Missoula office of the U.S. Weather Bureau was established on November 1, 1935, in the Montana Building at 101 Broadway. On November 1, 1938, the office moved one block to the Federal Building. From July 1, 1939, to October 1, 1941, weather observations were also recorded by Civil Aeronautics Administration personnel at Hale Field; this station moved to the Missoula County Airport effective October 1, 1941. The two weather stations were consolidated when the Weather Bureau office moved to the Missoula County Airport on December 1, 1944.
The Weather Bureau was established in 1870. It was under the authority of the Army Signal Service/Signal Corps until 1891, when it was transferred to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. In 1940 the Weather Bureau was transferred to the U.S. Department of Commerce.
In Missoula, before establishment of the Weather Bureau office, weather observations were made by the U.S. Army at Fort Missoula from April 1893 to May 1898. From May 1898 to November 1935, weather observations were made by University of Montana Professor Morton J. Elrod and his students at his home on West Fifth Street South in Missoula.
William Leonard Albrecht was born in 1863 in Rothenburg, Germany, the son of Frederick A. and Sophia (Schmidt) Albrecht. He emigrated to the United States in 1882 and began working in Detroit, Michigan, as a bookkeeper. After six months there, he moved on to Minneapolis, where he worked for a firm that manufactured billiard tables and bank furniture. He left that firm and traveled throughout the Northwest looking for a location to start a business. In 1886 he arrived in Great Falls, Montana, where he opened the city's first furniture store.
In 1887, he built the brick building that would house the store for the next eighty-one years. Albrecht's Furniture sold a whole variety of furnishings for the home. The store often struggled with varying financial conditions, but stayed in business at 111 Central Avenue East until 1968.
Albrecht was active in other business concerns as well. He was a director, vice president, and president of the Gold Black Sand Mining Company, which was headquartered in Great Falls. He was also active in the German-American community, and was a member of the Sons of Hermann (which published the Montana Herold, a German newspaper, out of Great Falls from 1892 to 1898) and the German Lodge of Great Falls. He was a minor stockholder in the Cascade and Bitter Root Lumber Company.
Albrecht married Wilhelmine Loeffler in Chicago in 1894. They had three children: William Jr., Helmuth, and Elsie. William Sr. died in 1935; William Jr. owned and managed the store until its closure in 1968; he died in 1975.
Gertrud Degenhard was born in March of 1923 in Gelsenkirchen, Germany. The second child of six, Gertrud’s early life was colored by the social and economic strife afflicting post-war Germany. Originally pursuing a degree in medicine, she studied in Berlin during World War II and often had to endure allied air raids interrupting lectures. She switched to the humanities, delving into history, literature, philosophy, art history, and language. In 1944, she was drafted into military service and served as a map clerk with the German Special Forces. After the war, she completed her exams and was certified as a high school teacher. She continued with her studies and earned her doctorate at Goettingen University in History and Germanistics before joining her fiancée, Klaus Lackschewitz, in the United States in 1954.
Gertrud and Klaus were married shortly after her arrival in the United States. They lived on farms in both New Jersey and Virginia for a time. They then moved to New York City where Klaus worked as a gardener and Gertrud as a cook, while Gertrud tried to improve their position by taking classes at the Columbia University Teacher’s College and improving her English. Klaus continued to take gardening jobs and Gertrud eventually got a position at the Teacher’s College Library as a clerk. She worked as a clerk for a year before she took a job as a reference librarian with the New York Public Library. Victim of the policies of the time, she was fired when she reached her fifth month of her first pregnancy in 1959. She gained the director of the library’s help in finding a grant that allowed her to continue working through the pregnancy. She wrote a bibliography on the history of interior decoration, which she worked on until a week before her daughter Anna’s birth and returned to a week after the delivery. However, she did lose her reference position and after she completed the bibliography she was out of a job.
Gertrud took a position with Montana State University (now the University of Montana) in Missoula, Montana, as an assistant professor of German in the fall of 1960. She also had a second daughter, Elizabeth, after moving to Missoula. Lackschewitz initially only taught German language courses, but as she worked her way from assistant to associate to full professor she also taught literature courses. Through her teaching and interaction with students, she noticed that many had German ancestry. As a German immigrant and instructor of German, she was intrigued by these students’ background and began a research project that delved into German immigration to Montana. Through her extensive research, she devised several chapters for a book about German immigrants in Montana based on Helena Germans, Russian Germans, Hutterites, and German churches. However, after she retired from teaching in 1989, she never completed the book.
Klaus Lackschewitz passed away on August 10, 1995. Gertrud continues to live in Missoula, Montana.
Lolo National Forest was established in 1906 and is located in western Montana along the Clark Fork River (formerly Missoula River) and St. Regis River. It extends to the Montana-Idaho border to the west, the Kootenai National Forest and Flathead Indian Reservation to the north, the Missoula Valley and Lewis and Clark National Forest to the east, and the Bitterroot National Forest to the south. Since its establishment, Lolo National Forest acquired land from Missoula National Forest, Cabinet National Forest, and Selway National Forest. The forest is currently located within Region 1 of the United States National Forest System (USFS) and spans over 2 million acres. The Lolo National Forest is divided into five ranger districts: Missoula, Plains/Thompson Falls, Ninemile, Seeley Lake, and Superior. The forest’s Supervisor’s Office is in Missoula. The National Forest has managed a range of activities over the years including lumbering and reforestation, grazing, settlement, recreation, preservation, and fire control.
Thain White was born and raised in Rollins, Montana. White spent his early years helping his father, Ernie White, raise sheep at White's Columbia Sheep Company. It was during these years that White acquired a strong interest in the history and archeology of his native state. This interest resulted in decades of Montana historical research and writings.
In 1949, Thain and Ernie White began the Flathead Lake Lookout Museum in Lakeside, Montana. Located on the west shore of Flathead Lake, the museum is dedicated to exhibitions and collections concerning regional and primitive artifacts. Two generations of the White family maintained the museum facility until 1972, when the O'Neil Jones family purchased the museum.
During his years as museum director, White undertook a number of research projects concerning the Montana area and the Flathead Valley in particular. He conducted a variety of excavations at battlegrounds from the Indian Wars of the 1880s and homestead sites such as Chimney Coulee. He also focused much of his research on railroads and stage companies existing in Montana at the turn of the century. Much of White's work was done in partnership with Montana State University (now University of Montana) Professor of Anthropology Carling I. Malouf. White documented his research and many of his articles were published together with Malouf by the Flathead Lake Lookout Museum.
Mr. White died on April 29, 1999.
The Peterson Drug Company was located in Missoula, Montana, at 216 North Higgins. It was started by Gustave F. Peterson, a Swedish immigrant, who entered into a partnership with his brother, Alexander Peterson, in 1903. By 1918, Alexander Peterson had purchased his brother's interest. For three years, Alexander was the sole proprietor and manager. After 1922, the two brothers owned all the stock and managed the firm together. In 1922, the Petersons had stores at three locations: the Peterson Drug Store at 216 N. Higgins Ave., the Garden City Drug Store at 118 N. Higgins Ave., and Peterson Drug Store No. 3. The store located at 216 N. Higgins remained open when the other branches closed. Several members of the Peterson family were involved in the business, including Gustave, Sr., Gustave F., Jr., and Francis, son of Alexander Peterson. Ownership and management of the Peterson Drug Company later fell to Gustave Peterson, Jr. During the 1940s, ownership passed outside of the Peterson family, although the business kept its name. Harold C. Kohlhase was the company's last owner. By 1980 the business ceased to exist.
The University of Montana's University Relations department serves the public and the University by distributing accurate and timely information about UM, producing useful and interesting publications, and enhancing the UM brand and overall image of higher education through outreach, marketing activities, e-communications and social media.
Leslie L. Like was born in 1897 in Great Falls, Montana. After he attended grade school in Butte, Montana, his parents moved to Granite County, where they were homesteaders near Drummond, Montana. Like enlisted in 1919 but he never served overseas. Upon his return, he operated the branch agency of the Continental Oil Company in Drummond for two years and he later had a 640-acre homestead in Powell County. Like also worked as a retail salesman with the Faust Mercantile Company in Drummond. He was employed by the Northern Pacific Railroad when he became postmaster in 1924. He held this position until 1957. He was also the proprietor of Drummond's Dreamland Theatre. Like died in 1971
Great Falls Breweries Inc. was founded by Emil Sick in 1933 immediately after the repeal of Prohibition. It was begun with the purchase of the interests of the Montana Brewing Company and the American Brewing Company, two Great Falls firms dating from the 1890s that had been closed by Prohibition. Mr. Sick continued the operation until 1949 when he sold the property to local interests. It was again sold in 1966 to Blitz-Weinhard Company of Portland, Oregon, which continued operations until September, 1968 when severe economic conditions forced the closure of the Great Falls plant. At the time of its closing, the Great Falls operation was the last operating brewery in the four state area of Montana, Idaho, North Dakota, and Wyoming
The papers were in Watt's possession until donation to the Archives.
Custodial history of these albums is unknown.
All materials in this collection were collected and retained by Dorothy Floerchinger until donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
These materials remained in the possession of Frances Faick Walker and Clifford Walker until their donation to the University of Montana's School of Fine Arts along with the Walkers' art collection. In 2001, the Museum of Fine Arts, that was administered by the School of Fine Arts and subsequently houses the Walkers' art collection, became a state museum and is now the Montana Museum of Art and Culture (MMAC). In 2015 and 2016 the manuscript materials from the Walker collection were transferred to Archives and Special Collections by the MMAC.
Custodial history of these materials is unknown.
Materials were held by G. G. Weix, Professor of Anthropology at The University of Montana, until their donation to the Archives.
These materials were collected and/or created by Betty Brill, last president of the Lake County Federation of Women's Clubs, and held in her possession until donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
Chain of ownership of this collection is unknown.
The materials in this collection remained with the Bass family until they were loaned to the K. Ross Toole Archives for microfilming.
The custodial history of this collection is unknown.
Found in the attic of 101 University Avenue, Missoula, Montana in 1961 by the donor.
There is no documentation about the custodial history of this map.
Blaine Mann originally gave the records to the Montana Historical Society.
The collection was in the possession of Clifton R. Merritt and maintained at his home until his death in 2008. Merritt's daughter, Sherry Essig, maintained the bulk of the materials in Merritt’s home until their transfer to the Archives.
This collection was donated to Archives and Special Collections by the creator, Barbara Corcoran, in several accessions in 1974, 1976, and 1993. Following Corcoran's death, Jeanne Dixon, the executor of the estate, donated two additional accessions in 2004 and 2007.
This album was in the possession of its creator until her death in 1981. She had no children and the album passed to her brother and sister-in-law's niece.
The chain of ownership of this collection is unknown.
The collection was originally donated to the Missoula City-County Library by Rhoda Richardson.
All materials were in possession of Esther Ada Naylor until her death, at which point they transferred to her daughter Sandra Wigdahl who donated them to Archives and Special Collections in February 2013.
These photographs remained in the possession of the Missoula Mercantile following Mr. Boos' death. Walter McLeod, a Mercantile owner, passed this group of glass plate negatives, film negatives, and photographs to his daughter who later passed them to her own daughter, Mary M. Pitch. For further explanation of overall Boos photograph custodial history, see Mss 346.
Portions of this collection, mostly television/radio transcripts, were housed in the radio-television collections at Montana State University-Bozeman and the Museum of the Rockies in Bozeman prior to accession into the K. Ross Toole Archives collections.
Information about the original custodial history for most materials in this collection is unavailable. The majority of these materials were originally placed into the Archives' oral history collection. In 2017 they were removed, arranged and described as this artificial collection.
The collection was in the possession of the Mansfield Center for Pacific Affairs until donation to the Archives.
These materials were held by Stuart Conner until their donation to the Archives.
These images transferred from William R. Pierce to his son, John, who donated them to the UM Archives in several accessions.
Materials were held by W. W. Norton and Company prior to their donation to the archives.
This collection was held by Donald Schofield's son prior to tranfer to Archives and Special Collections.
The chain of ownership of these photo albums is unknown.
The papers were held by Fulkerson until her death in 2011.
The folder of German songs and stories filed under Germany - Military: Troop Morale was donated by Fred Skinner in 2009.
Materials in this collection remained with the creator until donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
This collection was given to the Historical Museum at Ft. Missoula on March 15, 2005 by an anonymous donor. The collection was transferred by the Museum to the Archives at UM in June 2005.
The interviews were recorded by Bob Brown before deposit in the Archives and Special Collections.
The chain of ownership of this collection is unknown.
This collection was removed from Dee Taylor’s office following his death and donated by the Department of Anthropology at the University of Montana-Missoula to Archives and Special Collections. 
This collection is believed to have been in the custody of the Sherburne Family until it was transferred to William E. Farr.
The materials in this collection remained with Catherine Burnham until her death, at which time her brother assumed custody of her estate. The materials remained with him until he donated the collection to the K. Ross Toole Archives six years after her death.
Materials in this collection were retained by the Tuchscherer Family until donation the K. Ross Toole Archives.
The papers remained in the possession of Logan's wife until they were donated to the Archives.
This collection was in the possession of J.B. Speer but the date and method of its arrival at Archives and Special Collections is unknown.
The materials in this collection were retained by the Voget Family until donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
The records were in the possession of John Wight and Marvel Lowrance, owners of the Syndicate's assets, until time of donation.
the chain of custody of this collection is currently unknown.
Chain of ownership unknown.
Townsite sales ledger donated by William Fewkes. Remainder of collection loaned for microfilming by Mrs. Clara Brock.
The majority of records were held by ASUM until their transfer to the Archives. The contents of series VIII, Student Store Records, were donated to the Archives in 2020 with the Morris McCollum papers (Mss 959) and placed in this collection.
This collection was created and maintained by the donor until time of donation to the Archives.
The records were in the possession of the First National Montana Bank of Missoula until time of donation to the Archives.
Materials from this collection were removed from the Archives' University Publications collection (UPUBs) during reprocessing and placed in their own collection. 
The Cushman Family Papers were donated to the Historical Museum of Fort Missoula in Missoula, Montana, by Althea Bell. The Museum donated the bulk of the papers to the Archives in 1998, a single letter in 2004, and three diaries in 2007.
Chain of ownership unknown.
The majority of these records were held by the Boone and Crockett Club at their headquarters in Missoula, Montana, until their transfer to Archives & Special Collections. A small box of early minutes and letters was deposited at the Archives in 1992. The bulk of the collection was donated in March of 2009. An addition to the Club's records was donated in 2011. A small collection of manuscripts, most by George Bird Grinnell, was added in 2017.
Materials were in the possession of their creator until their transfer to Archives and Special Collections in 17 different accessions.
The materials in this collection remained in the possession of the Rankin Family until donation to the Mansfield Library.
This collection remained in the possession of the Morin family until donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
The collection was originally acquired by the University of Montana Museum.
These materials were collected and housed by Connie Piquette for an unknown number of years prior to donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
This collection was in the possession of Paul McLeod prior to donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
Custodial history is unknown.
Chain of custody unknown.
These images were held by John Well-Off-Man who acquired them from Paul Mitchell, an elder on the Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation. 
This collection was held by Sheila Mansfield Miller, DeMichele's niece by marriage, prior to donation to Archives and Special Collection.
The chain of ownership of this collection is unknown.
The custodial history is unknown.
The contents in this collection were in a storage unit belonging to a member of the Church of the Creator Northwest, a splinter group of Matt Hale's World Church of the Creator, prior to being acquired by the Montana Human Rights Network in 2003.
The collection was in possession of the creator until his death in 1984 and passed to his family until its donation to Archives and Special Collections in 1997.
Interviews were in the possession of the interviewers until their donation to the Archives.
This collection was donated by Vickie Amundson on May 13, 2004.
The materials in this collection were originally donated to The University of Montana School of Journalism in 1988. Upon receipt of the materials, the School of Journalism retained all bound books for display purposes while all other materials were immediately transferred to the K. Ross Toole Archives. In 1990 the School of Journalism transferred all bound books and subsequent materials received from the donor to the archives for final processing.
The materials were largely in the possession of the Collins Land Company until time of donation.
Held by the Missoula Electric Cooperative until donation.
These photographs were with a larger group of Edward H. Boos photographs that remained in the possession of the Missoula Mercantile following Mr. Boos' death. Walter McLeod, a Mercantile owner, passed this group of glass plate negatives, film negatives, and photographs to his daughter who later passed them to her own daughter, Mary M. Pitch. For further explanation of overall Boos photograph custodial history, see Mss 346.
Materials in this collection were transferred to the Archives by Max Baucus and various staffers, the majority of which were shipped to the Archives from storage at the Washington National Records Center in Suitland, Maryland. The transfer of some electronic records was also facilitated by the Sergeant at Arms of the United States Senate.
These materials were held by board members of the Montana Gerontology Society until their donation to the Archives.
Dawn Walsh compiled materials and conducted interviews for the Montana Women for Peace Oral History Project in 2000 as part of an internship with the Jeanette Rankin Peace Center and in conjunction with the Women’s Studies Department at The University of Montana--Missoula. The collection was then temporarily housed in the Women’s Studies Department at The University of Montana--Missoula, before it was brought to the K. Ross Toole Archives in 2002. 
The papers were held by the family until the time of the donation.
The collection components were gathered and held by Mary Birch prior to being donated to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
The majority of these materials were in the possession of Carling Malouf until his death and then were transferred directly to the Archives in the summer of 2007. A portion of the materials were donated by Malouf to the Archives between 2003 and 2006. Two binders of correspondence were loaned by Malouf to the UM Foundation and were transferred to the Archives following his death. Two binders were held by UM Professor of Anthropology G.G. Weix. One was donated in 2009 and one in 2010. An additional set of 8mm films was donated by Weix in 2012. In 2011, an additional 25 linear feet of materials were donated by Malouf's daughter, Sydney Hulla.
The custodial history prior to its purchase by Stuart C. Mackenzie is unknown.
The original photoboards were transported from Bonner School to the University of Montana for scanning. The photoboards were returned to Bonner School after scanning was completed. The digital files remained at the University of Montana's Archives and Special Collections.
The collection was originally given to the Missoula Public Library, along with materials that have been processed as Mss 379, Mss 380, and Mss 381.
The custodial history of these records is largely unknown. One group of records received in 1970 had been stored in the Northern Pacific depot in Missoula, Montana, until their transfer to the archives after the creation of Burlington Northern Railroad. Some of the materials may have been discarded from the Minnesota Historical Society’s NPRR collection, or may have been received directly from the NPRR.
The creation and early custodial history of this collection is unknown.
The materials in this collection remained with the creators until donation to the Mansfield Library.
The chain of ownership of this collection is unknown.
Custodial history unknown.
Materials were in custody of Missoula New Party members until transfer to the Archives.
Charles Campbell held the photograph album until he donated it to the University of Montana in 1973. Custodial history prior to Campbell's possession of the album is unknown, as is Campbell's relationship to Cora Ball. The scrapbook was held by Bill Raoul until he donated it to the Archives in 1980. Raoul's relationship to Ball is likewise unknown.
These materials were held by the Library of Congress prior to their transfer to The University of Montana in 1975. 
The oversized materials in OS 46 were not part of the original acquisition from the Library of Congress, and their custodial history is unknown.
The Martian newspaper was donated by Asa L. Duncan.
The materials in this collection remained with H. David Cogley until donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
The custodial history of the items is unknown.
This collection was maintained by Stewart Brandborg until its donation to the Archives.
The custodial history of this collection is unknown.
The University of Montana President's Office transferred the first accession of this collection to Archives and Special Collections in 1984. In 2015, the scrapbook containing Faick's work was donated to Archives and Special Collections by the Montana Museum of Art and Culture along with some personal papers belonging to Helen Faick's sister, Frances Faick Walker.
The materials in this collection were held by Emma Lommasson until her death.
These materials were in the possession of their originating office until their donation to Archives and Special Collections in 2015.
Materials held by Millikan Family.
This material was held by Ty Robinson before being donated to the Archives. 
The collection was donated by Herbert L. Dorr to the University of Montana History Department in 1966. 
Most of Merriam's collection remained in his possession until his death in 1980, though he seems to have given some initial part to the archives in 1979 and before. Other materials were acquired by non-family members and were donated to the archives after Merriam's death. Details of how these materials were acquired and housed were not recorded upon donation to the archives.
Papers were held by Meyer Chessin until he donated them to the Archives.
The materials were in Waldron's possession until time of donation to the Archives.
All materials were collected by Leo and Claire Rhein from numerous undocumented sources and remained with the Rhein family until donation.
The collection includes materials collected by Teresa Hamann to create an exhibit about the history of the mascot and from public response to a subsequent request for information and reminiscences. 
Chain of ownership and custodial history of this ledger is unknown.
Materials were in possession of the Mansfield Library's administration until their transfer to Archives and Special Collections in many different accessions.
Materials were held by Bard G. Middleton until he donated the papers in 2005
Chain of ownership of this photo album is unknown.
The collection was in Redinger's possession until donation to the archives.
The majority of the collection was given to the Department of Music before transfer to the Archives. Other materials--including the original score to Proud Music of the Storm and the compact disc of Maury recordings--came directly to the Archives.
Custodial history unknown.
The creator and custodial history of these documents is unknown.
The letters in this collection were passed from the recipients to Richard L. Merritt, the donor.
Prior to the materials coming to Archives and Special Collections, the collection was in the possession of the National Smokejumper Association. Video and video logs in Series V, Smokejumpers: Firefighters from the Sky were held by Stevan Smith until their delivery to the Archives in June 2011. Interviews conducted by John Driscoll for the storytelling series There I Was! were donated by the creator in 2014. National Smokejumper Association Historian Charlie Palmer donated additional Mann Gulch fire photographs in 2016. Personal papers of smokejumpers arrived as donations from their individual creators or from friends and family of the creator.
The records were in the Portland, Oregon, offices of the J. Neils Lumber Company, then remained in the Neils family until time of acqusition.
Chain of ownership unknown.
The photographs in Series I were held by Stan Healy and his trust before they were purchased by the Friends of the Library in 1990. Most of the items in Series II were held by Kathleen Kimble, a family friend, until they were donated to the University of Montana in 2021, with the exception of one photograph, which was purchased by collector Tim Gordon who later resold it to the University of Montana. Custodial information about Series III photographs is unknown. 
Custodial history is unknown.
Materials from this collection were removed from the Archives' University Publications collection (UPUBs) in 2016 and placed in their own collection.
Patricia O’Connell gathered and wrote the materials in this collection until her death when the collection was delivered to the archives by her son, Dan O’Connell, at her request
In most cases the chain of custody of an image is unknown.
Some of these materials were held by Greg Siple/Missoula Bicycle Club prior to their transfer to The University of Montana between 1988 and 1990. Mansfield Library maintained subscriptions to most of the BikeCentennial/Adventure Cycling Association publications and collected them as they were published. The miscellaneous newsletters located in the Series III were originally part of the Montana Pamphlet Collection and were incorporated into this collection in 2014. 
Materials in this collection remained in the possession of the USWB Missoula office until donation to the K. Ross Toole Archives.
The records were held by the Albrecht family until time of donation.
These materials were compiled and held by Gertrud Lackschewitz until their donation to Archives and Special Collections in 2011.
These materials were held by University Relations until their distribution (in the case of publications) or direct transfer (in the case of photographs and other unpublished materials) to the Archives.
The Blitz-Weinhard Company purchased Great Falls Breweries, Inc. in 1966 and suspended Montana operations in 1968. The Blitz-Weinhard Company placed all Great Falls Breweries Inc. records in a storage unit until donation to the Archives.
The collection contains Watt's political and personal materials that document his activities in state and local politics, tax reform, and other matters. Watt's correspondence is mostly with Montana's congressional delegation (particularly Mike Mansfield) and with local officials about legislative matters. Campaign materials document his campaigns for the state legislature. Clippings from Montana newspapers include stories about Watt and others who interested him, but also includes a series of letters to the editor. There is one file of research materials related to state tax reform. Legislative materials include mostly bills and resolutions he introduced or otherwise supported.
This collection consists of four photographs albums (one not bound) of images documenting the activities of the Donohue family. Included are photos of Missoula and Butte residential areas, including the Donohue home on Gerald Avenue in Missoula, Sacred Heart Academy in Missoula, the University of Montana campus and events, and family vacations.
This collection contains a manuscript written by Mrs. Floerchinger, clippings and research materials on the Conrad family of Kalispell, Montana, and scrapbooks reflecting Mrs. Floerchinger's personal interests into historic events throughout Montana and the rest of the United States. Particular subjects include the history of the Marias River Valley; the history of Conrad, Montana; the Whoop-Up Trail; and Montana organizations, including the Montana Democratic Party, the Montana Farmers Union, and the Montana Library Association.
This series contains a manuscript written by Mrs. Floerchinger called "Quietly Flows Maria's River." The manuscript is somewhat a history of the Marias River, which is located in northern Montana. Included within the text are various maps of the area and a letter from Charles M. Russell regarding the Marias River and the Whoop-Up Trail, which is also located in northern Montana.
Contained within this series are correspondence, biographical information, and clippings regarding the Conrad family of Kalispell and north central Montana. The correspondence is between Mrs. Floerchinger and several Conrad descendants and generally regards mutual requests for information on the family. Mrs. Floerchinger includes biographical information on the Conrad Family, such as histories written by others and a Conrad family tree. Clippings included in this series relate to various Conrad family events, such as weddings and funerals, along with any other news worthy items involving members of the Conrad family (society columns and business articles).
This series contains scrapbooks assembled by Mrs. Floerchinger. The first 50 scrapbooks reflect Mrs. Floerchinger's personal life; they include vacation mementos, letters, birthday and other holiday cards, news clippings, and various items relating to her interests (local Conrad events, the Montana Farmer's Union, the Montana Library Association, and the Montana Democratic Party). The remaining scrapbooks deal with various subjects, such as the Persian Gulf War, arts in Montana, education in Montana, and Montana history (in particular the Centennial Celebration in 1989). The majority of the scrapbooks are composed of news clippings regarding each subject.
This collection relates to Frances Walker's donation of artwork to the University of Montana's art museum, now known as the Montana Museum of Art and Culture, as well as her collection of materials related to artist Charles Heaney including personal letters and photographs. It also includes research files on individual artists and some of her research on family history.
This series contains correspondence to and from Frances Walker and her husband, Clifford Walker. It includes letters and cards from friends and exchanges between the University of Montana School of Fine Arts and the Walkers as they were preparing to donate their art collection to the University.
This series contains materials collected by Frances Walker during her research of her family history as well as information she gathered about various artists who lived and worked in the Pacific Northwest.
This series contains materials collected by Frances Walker from various aspects of artist Charles Heaney's life and her friendship with him. These materials include publicity for art openings, photographs, correspondence between Heaney and the Walkers, a recorded interview with Heaney, reproductions of Heaney's art, and additional ephemera collected by the Walkers including Heaney's obituary and photos of his home.
The collection consists of a few scattered personal papers, photos, a scrapbook and two travel diaries. The personal papers include Duncan's baptism certificate, a record of her parent's marriage, and letters of recommendation. The individual photos are a similarly fragmented record of her life. The scrapbook contains photos and memorabilia about Duncan’s college career at the University of Montana in Missoula from 1905 to 1915. The photos range from studio portraits to a variety of group photos of students as well as some family pictures. The memorabilia includes Dramatic Club play programs, Theta Phi and other fraternity and sorority materials, music recital programs and dance programs, gentlemen’s calling cards, and gift note cards. The first travel diary records Duncan’s 1927 trip to Europe including England and Ireland and the second records her 1932 trip to Russia.
This collection is comprised of the files of G.G. Weix, Women’s Studies program director from fall 1997-Spring 2001 and co-director of the program from fall 2001-spring 2003. The collection contains correspondence, notes, newsletters and committee information regarding the administration and development of the Women’s Studies program, correspondence and notes on committees and programs related to Women’s Studies, and information and newsletters about other women’s organizations both local and national. The collection includes course lists and curriculum information regarding classes offered through the program as well as courses cross-listed with other departments. The collection also includes notes, correspondence, and information regarding speakers and events organized by the department.
The collection consists of the meeting minutes, financial records, and certificates that document the activities and interests of the organization. A gavel used in the meetings is also present in the collection.
The two certificates in the series are a charter member of the Fort Connah Restoration Society in 1976 and a certificate of appreciation for participation in the Ronan Special Olympics in 1983.
This series consists of a bank statement and a checkbook from the 1980 to the federation's end in 1985. The series also contains a ledger book held by the Treasurer of the federation from 1939 to 1985. It stores all the expenses and credits for the club. The series is arranged alphabetically.
The series consists of an October 6, 1984 meeting agenda and a minute book of the meetings from October 1, 1936 to April 25, 1985. This book tells of the activities and interests of the federation, and it lists in order the presidents of the federation in the beginning of the book. The series is arranged alphabetically.
This series consists of a gavel that was presented to the federation by the St. Ignatius Women's Club.
This collection consists of Phil Preston's copy of the "Journal of the 1939 Senior Trip, School of Forestry, Montana State University (now The University of Montana-Missoula)" with extensive daily entries and photos. The trip included a visit to a CCC camp in Moscow, Idaho, and tours of the Pendleton Woolen Mills, San Francisco including the Exposition, California forests, and a Scotia, California lumber mill before the group headed into Oregon for a look at the coast, logging and dams. The collection also includes a couple of letters and Preston's Civil Service application.
This collection contains the diaries of Virginia E. Bass for 1871 through 1922. Also present are various legal documents, financial records for the brother's mining, agricultural, and business enterprises such as inventory lists of the livestock and equipment on several of their properties, deeds, and shareholding certificates. Speeches and writings pertinent to the Stevensville, Montana area are also a part of this series. This collection also contains a few letters written by Etta Bass to her husband Dudley, newspaper clippings pertinent to the history of the Bitterroot Valley, and photographs of the Bass family holdings and the Stevensville, Montana, area.
This series includes the daily accounts of Virginia Bass's life in Stevensville, Montana from 1871 to 1922. Reel 1 includes material that is duplicated on Reel 2. She recounts the weather faithfully, and also includes many details of daily life: growing and harvesting food, raising livestock, people and visitors, family life, visits to the doctor, church and social groups, and some current and world events. The 1922 diary leaves off at January 16. The other diaries, particularly 1895, have many blank pages.
This series includes a letter from Etta Bass to assert her legal right to make decisions concerning the property owned by she and her husband Dudley Bass. It also contains a similar letter from Virginia Bass concerning her legal rights of property owned by she and her husband, William Bass.
These papers contain the account ledger for the Bass brothers' gristmill from 1873-1875 and 1882. This collection also includes mortgages from 1879-1882, 1884, 1886, 1889-1890, and 1893 and promissory notes for the years 1877, 1881-1884, 1886-1889, and 1893. These documents comprise the bulk of this series but a small section of records for various leases (1881), a grant record (1890), stock certificates for Stevensville Hotel Company (1895) and Stevensville Real Estate and Loan Company (1890) are present. Various letters written in 1908 regarding the financial concerns of the Bass brothers also have a small holding within this series. A ledger dating 1864-1866 relates to the Bass brother's mining ventures and shows egg and butter sales. The ledger from Chatfield & Bass contains appears to be that of a dry goods or general merchandise operation and contains the names of many prominent Bitterroot Valley residents. The 1887-1900 ledger appears to be that of the Bass produce business and records sales of livestock, meat, apples (varieties are listed), apple cier, berries, plums, tomatoes, and strawberry plants. A group of miscellaneous financial documents on Reel 7 are duplicated on Reel 1.
This series consists of deeds to various properties owned by the Bass brothers in the years spanning from 1880-1895. Indentures are also present in the collection for the years of 1878 through 1891 and 1893. These two sections comprise the bulk of the legal documents, but there are some U.S. Land Office documents (1876, 1883, & 1888) and executions of sale of real estate from the Sheriff's office (1889-1890) present. A Sheriff's deed under foreclosure issued in 1895 and a court summons for the Bass brothers for 1893 are also listed. Several portions of Reel 7 and 8 duplicate materials on Reel 1. Mining materials on Reel 8 document the Bass brother's involvement with the Lawyers Combination Lode mining claim in Missoula County and the Log Cabin Quartz Lode mining claim. There is considerable correspondence with R.P. Anderson of Lolo, Montana, regarding this. There is also a stock certificate from the Bonanza Mountain Copper Company. Bass house materials from 1909 document the costs and skilled labor involved in the construction of a new Bass residence.
This small section contains letters written on various subjects from the year 1908 and an undated memoir of early life and development of the Bitterroot Valley by an unknown author.
This series contains newspaper clippings from the Stevensville Register and the Northwest Tribune on the early settlement and history of the Bitterroot Valley. Materials are duplicated on both Reel 1 and Reel 8.
This series contains photographs documenting the Bass family, their business holdings, and development of the Bitterroot Valley. There are several images of Stevensville, and others of Native Americans in the area.
At this time the mill was owned by the Bass family.
Boy in back row next to teacher is Lee Bass.
This photo was taken in front of the old mission at Stevensville, Montana, at the time when General Carrington negotiated the final treaty removing the Flathead Indians to the Jocko Valley.
Predecessor of Missoula Mercantile, Missoula, Montana.
The collection contains materials produced and collected by the Wheeler for Senate Club. Materials they collected were about and by the Senator and include his voting record, speeches, and newspaper clippings; they used these to establish the case for his re-election. Materials produced by the Club include correspondence, campaign materials, and financial records.
This collection contains memos to faculty members, 1942-1977, salary studies, 1951-1960, minutes and organizational materials, 1930-1962, and newsletters, 1965-1974, for the Montana chapter of the American Association of University Professors.
This collection consists of Edward W. Spottswood's diary from January-August, 1913, in which he briefly describes life in Missoula and then focuses on the family's travel in the United States and Europe. Spottswood mentioned his wife, their children and the events and sites they enjoyed as well as prominent people they met, including Joseph Dixon and President Woodrow Wilson. Their travels began with a cross country trip from Missoula to New York, Augusta, Georgia, and Washington, D.C. In May the family sailed to Europe and traveled through many cities including Paris, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Bergen, Stockholm, and St. Petersburg as well as parts of Italy and Germany.
The collection includes clippings, financial records, correspondence, meeting minutes, organizational information, photographs, garden club publications, and scrapbooks from 1949 to 1988 for the Homevale Garden Club. The collection also includes information the Montana Federation of Garden Clubs, in which Homevale was a member. Homevale sponsored a junior garden club for youths and also sponsored many Missoula area beautification projects, many of which are chronicled in the scrapbooks.
This series contains newspaper clippings about garden clubs, Homevale Garden Club, and two women associated with the club. One article deals with the Western Montana Fair and asking groups and people not to forget about the fair deadline. The two articles on members of the Homevale club are Mrs. Ray Nelson and former club president, Lillian Hornick.
The series contains check stubs, receipts, bank notices, and canceled checks for the Homevale Garden Club.
The series contains cards and letters to the membership of the garden club. Two letters of appreciation are also included; one was written to the Sears Foundation for a $35.00 grant for a beautification project, and the other is written to a Mrs. Lovell for sending a donation of $5.00 to buy 4H dresses for the junior garden club.
This series contains the meeting minutes for the monthly meetings of the club. This series documents the activities of the Homevale Garden Club and its members. Also included in the minutes are monthly financial reports. Newspaper clippings associated with each month's activities of the club is included in the month's minutes.
This series contains a history of the Homevale Garden Club written in 1979. It also consists of applications for the Montana Federation of Garden Clubs Awards and the corresponding awards given. The series also contains programs from flower shows and the awards that the members of the club were given.
This series consists of photographs from the garden club's activities. They depict work on a beautification project, a dinner banquet, and group photos.
This series consists of booklets from other sources dealing with garden clubs. The booklets are Progress through Perfectly Planned Programs for Garden Clubs, Handbook of the Montana Federation of Garden Clubs, By-Laws and Awards for Montana Federation of Garden Clubs, The Role of the Garden Club in Community Beautification. Another booklet that is in the series is a dictionary on plant names. Also in the series a diagram sheet on how to build a bird house, a past garden club project.
This series consists of 14 scrapbooks made by the Homevale Garden Club. In these scrapbooks are newspaper clippings, membership certificates, annual programs, pictures of flowers and people, and newsletters. Project announcements, award ribbons, meeting minutes, and correspondence are also in the books. Two books in the series are dedicated to specific events, the Special Achievement Award and the Civic Development Project.
The collection contains publications and printed items produced at Heart Mountain between 1942 and 1945 and publications and clippings pertaining to the Heart Mountain relocation center and the relocation program but produced by other sources between 1942 and 1944.
This series consists of memoranda produced by various administrators of the War Relocation Authority at Heart Mountain. Most of the memoranda deal with school administration; a few deal with other subjects such as community programs and war bond purchases. A WRA Application for Leave Clearance is included here.
Included in this series are: General Information Bulletins, which are community newsletters; Heart Mountain Reports, issued by the Reports Division, which provide camp statistics and progress reports; school and community publications, including newspapers, announcements, programs, and a teachers' handbook; and supplements in English and Japanese to the Heart Mountain Sentinel. Oversize items separated to Box 2.
The series consists of one reel of microfilm containing complete issues of the weekly camp newspaper, the Heart Mountain Sentinel, from November 21, 1942, to July 14, 1945. Not every weekly issue is present. Some Japanese editions are included.
This series consists of items pertaining to the Heart Mountain relocation center and the relocation program in general, produced by the War Relocation Authority, the Smithsonian Institution, and the U.S. Senate. Included here is a 32-page WRA bibliography of newspaper and magazine articles, pamphlets, books, manuscripts, WRA documents, and other bibliographies relating to the WRA, the Japanese, and Japanese-Americans. Also included is a copy of the form, "Statement of United States Citizen of Japanese Ancestry," which adult males were required to fill out.
The series consists of newspaper and magazine clippings about the Heart Mountain relocation center, the relocation program in general, and attitudes toward the Japanese. Included in both the dated and undated folders are columns written by internee Bill Hosokawa for the Cody Enterprise. Hosokawa, the editor of the Heart Mountain Sentinel, continued his journalism career after he left the camp; he also wrote Nisei: The Quiet Americans, published in 1969 by William Morrow and Co. A few clippings are incomplete. The source of the clippings is not always shown. Oversize clippings separated to Box 2.
The collection consists of a biographical sketch of George S. Watkins by an unknown author that was written about 1940 based mostly on letters written from Watkins to his family. The biography offers a picture of life in Madison County and Virginia City, Montana, between 1864 and the 1890s. There are no notes on the location of the original letters. There is a single page of explanatory notes, possibly added by Mary Elrod Ferguson, librarian at The University of Montana.
Letters dated 1925-1932 from Montana writer Frank B. Linderman to Julius C. Peters discussing disbarment, the Masons, the selling of Linderman's Goose Bay residence, his writing, and a description of "wash day."
This is a topographic map with annotations drawn by Forrest Poe indicating the various homesteads and settlements that were in the Rattlesnake Valley in Missoula, Montana between 1880 and 1936 based off knowledge from Forrest Poe growing up on his family’s homestead in the Rattlesnake Valley.
This collection contains Red Lodge Canning Company correspondence, financial, legal, organizational, promotional, photographic records as well as documents from the Rocky Mountain Distributing Company, a beer distribution division of the larger company. Aside from three folders of internal correspondence with the Stevensville operation and an extensive photographic sequence, all materials in this collection address the Red Lodge and Stevensville operations as one unit. The materials in this collection provide insights into Montana's rural canning industry, the extent of horticultural production in the state, horticultural product transportation/distribution networks, and the development of local food distribution economies through much of the 20th Century.
This series contains correspondence records from the Red Lodge Canning Company. Series materials are divided into two subseries, general and interoffice. The general correspondence subseries includes incoming and outgoing materials from company officials, primarily E.H. and Blaine Mann, to vegetable growers, canning suppliers, public officials, and distributors. These materials include exchanges with nearly every Montana Congressional representative during the time period, primarily concerning industry issues and company requests for special action. The interoffice subseries contains procedural memos and exchanges regarding leadership decisions.
This series contains production statements, account records, and asset statements from the Red Lodge Canning Company.
This series contains purchase agreements, operational licenses, equipment lease agreements, and distribution contracts from the Red Lodge Canning Company.
This series contains stockholder information and board minutes from the Red Lodge Canning Company.
This series contains canning industry publications, Red Lodge Canning Company sample labels, and company promotional materials. This series also contains a folder of numerous birth certificates from Butte and Red Lodge, Montana (dating from 1922-1926).
This series contains 37 images of Red Lodge Canning Company facilities and company-related events in Red Lodge, Montana as well as 36 images of company operations in Stevensville, Montana. These images include photographs of the 1972 Red Lodge Sweet Pea Parade, pea processing techniques, corn processing and cattle drives in the Bitterroot Valley, and a company-sponsored bowling team in Red Lodge.
This series contains correspondence and account statements for the Red Lodge Canning Company's beer distribution division, sometimes identified as the Rocky Mountain Distributing Company. This operation held beer distribution contracts with several brewing companies, local and national, for Carbon and Stillwater counties in Montana.
The Clifton R. Merritt Papers have been organized into seven series arranged by the periods in Merritt’s professional career. The majority of the series have been further subdivided into subseries, reflecting the order in which they were maintained by Merritt. The largest series in this collection relates to Merritt's time with American Wildlands and includes planning documents, committee minutes, and extensive correspondence files.
Of particular interest within this collection are documents and correspondence related to the recommendation of new wilderness areas into the National Wilderness Preservation System signed into law in 1964. The collection also contains documents related to the research and development of the Corridors of Life Program, which mapped wildlife migration corridors between roadless areas and established wilderness areas. The papers include a small portion of personal writings and correspondence including drafts and research for Merritt’s memoirs titled Beyond the Roads and his family history titled I Remember my Grandfather. The papers also contain awards and certificates received by Clifton R. Merritt.
The Montana Wildlife Federation is a Helena, Montana, based organization dedicated to the preservation of wildlife habitat. Merritt served in various positions for the Montana Wildlife Federation from 1950 to 1964, and helped spearhead the movement to establish the Jewel Basin Hiking Area in Montana. This series is arranged into three subseries. Subseries 1, Administration, includes internal correspondence and memos. Subseries 2, Subject Files, consists of correspondence, reports, and news releases. Subseries 3 contains organizational publications and newsletters.
Merritt helped found the Montana Wilderness Association (MWA) in 1957. The MWA is a Helena, Montana, based organization that works towards the preservation and designation of wilderness in Montana. Materials in this series related to the Glacier View and Hungry Horse Dams and the Wilderness Walks Program reflect these organizational goals. This series is arranged into three subseries: subseries 1: Administration, includes internal memos and correspondence as well as the organization’s constitution and bylaws. Subseries 2, Subject Files, consists of correspondence, reports and notes. Subseries 3 contains organizational publications and newsletters.
The Wilderness Society (TWS) is a national environmental organization dedicated to the preservation and designation of wilderness throughout the United States. In 1964, Clifton Merritt became director of field services for TWS. He began his work in Washington, DC, lobbying for the establishment of the Wilderness Act of 1964 and established the Society’s Western Regional Office in Denver, Colorado, in 1966. Of particular interest in this series are memos, notes, correspondence, and research done on areas proposed for entry in the National Wilderness Preservation System. This series has been divided into three subseries. Subseries 1, Administration, includes internal memos and correspondence, executive committee meeting notes and minutes, an organizational manual, and other notes. Subseries 2, Subject Files, consists of correspondence, notes, research files, and clippings.
In 1979, Clif Merritt, Sally Ranney, and Jerry Mallet formed The American Wilderness Alliance (known after 1983 as American Wildlands) based in Denver, Colorado. The organization worked with conservation groups throughout the Rocky Mountain West to preserve public lands for wildlife habitat and recreation. Merritt served as executive director until 1990, when he became associate executive director. In 1990, Merritt began the Corridors of Life Program, which used Geographic Information Systems to map wildlife migration corridors between roadless areas and established wilderness areas.
This series is arranged into four subseries. Subseries 1: Administration includes internal memos and correspondence, meeting notes and minutes, resumes, notes, and financial and funding information. Subseries 2: Subject Files consists of correspondence, notes, research files, action reports, and clippings. Of particular interest are Subseries 3: Corridors of Life contains correspondence, research files, and notes. Subseries 4: Organizational Publications and Newsletters contains newsletters and publications, correspondence, notes, and drafts.
Friends of the Bitterroot is a forest-watch organization based in Hamilton, Montana. This series contains meeting memos, notes, correspondence, and newsletters.
This series is arranged into two subseries. Subseries 1, Writings and Files, contains drafts, correspondence, articles, and publications. Subseries 2, Miscellaneous Materials, consists of a scrapbook, a yearbook, and rolodexes.
This series is arranged into two subseries. Subseries 1, Subject Files and Correspondence, and Subseries 2, Certificates, Statuettes, and Plaques.
This series primarily contains images of back country and wilderness areas. There are some photographs of Clif Merritt, his family, and individuals who were associated with The Wilderness Society. This series is currently unprocessed.
This series contains fourteen 16mm home movies primarily featuring outdoor recreation, family, and the Glacier National Park fish hatchery.
The collection contains meeting minutes, scrapbooks, and genealogical records from the Bitter Root Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution.
This series includes minutes to Bitter Root chapter general meetings and board meetings. Member attendance sheets, monthly and yearly treasurer reports, and newspaper clippings are also included.
This series contains chapter by-laws, monthly and yearly treasurer's reports, meeting rituals, duties of DAR secretaries, presentations, National Defense Committee report, a blank letterhead, as well as an exhaustive list of Bitter Root chapter DAR members.
Included are thank you, membership and resignation letters, letters from national and state committees, Albert L. Stone, and Elers Koch, and letters regarding the DAR Outstanding Home Economics Award and the Deaf Citizens of Montana.
This series includes newspaper clippings pertaining to the history of Missoula, the Bitter Root valley and Montana, and photos of Montana governors 1864 to 1925. Also included are articles about chapter meetings, activities, guest speakers, state convention, award winners, and editorials on behalf of DAR. This series also includes Press Books that were compiled by the DAR.
This series contains papers on numerous historical subjects relating to western Montana, including excerpts from the January 1, 1892 Missoula Gazette, church and mission histories, church records of baptisms, burials, and marriages, the history of the Missoula Library, Missoula, Missoula County and the Bitter Root valley, the history of the Bitter Root chapter DAR, historical landmarks, tombstone inscriptions, the early history of the Forest Service, biographies of Franklin Hargraves Woody, Hiram Knowles, John B. Catlin, De Loss Smith, Francis Dean Brown, and James Walsh, the history of the As You Like It Club and of the first president of Montana State University.
Included are state by-laws, dues, correspondence, conference programs, scholarship fund materials, and a history of the state society, comprised of biographies of state regents, state chapter histories of all seventeen chapters, history of the student loan and scholarship fund and historic markers, and a comprehensive membership roll.
This series contains publications of the National Defense Committee, National Defense through Patriotic Education Committee, and DAR-approved schools.
Year Books include membership and event information.
Scrapbooks typically include photographs, programs, correspondence and newspaper clippings.
Ledger book documenting membership payments and chapter income and expenses.
The collection contains correspondence, reviews of Corcoran's books, biographical/autobiographical materials and financial records. The major part of the collection is typed manuscripts and galley proofs of some of her many books. The collection also contains a published work she did with Bradford Angier and a book manuscript written by Bradford Angier. There are also photographs of Corcoran, her friends, and her family.
This series contains correspondence received by Barbara Corcoran including fan mail, letters from friends, and communications with her publishers.
This series contains materials relating to Barbara Corcoran's personal life and finances.
This series contains drafts, manuscripts, and galley proofs of Barbara Corcoran's many writing projects and speeches.
This series contains photographs of Barbara Corcoran as well as her friends and family.
This collection primarily consists of subject files collected by the department and related to Native American organizations, legislation, tribes, education and the Native American Studies program at the University of Montana. The legislative information and acts pertain to Native American public education and social welfare. Included in the collection papers are university publications, course handouts, elementary and high school workshop and lesson plans, curriculums and philosophies of Native American education. Non-educational material consists of information on Native American languages, bibliographies, information and lectures from conferences and symposiums, and academic and informal papers addressing Native American empowerment. Also included is information pertaining to higher education such as graduate and professional program papers, program proposals, information particularly for Native Americans in other career fields, and NAS programs at other universities. Most material dates from 1962 to 1997.
This collection contains the personal papers of the Martinson family of Missoula, Montana, including records of the Missoula Ice and Cold Storage Company, which they owned and operated from the early 1920s to late 1950s. The collection is divided into three series. Series I, Martinson family, contains Charles A. Martinson and Freda Martinson’s personal tax returns, personal correspondence from Jack Martinson to family members while he was in the Air Force during World War II, notices of Jack missing in action and killed in action, letters of support and sympathy to the family, military certificates of achievement, awards, and publications, and some of Jack’s personal belongings. Series II, Missoula Ice and Cold Storage Company, contains the financial records of the Missoula Ice Company, including check registers, cash disbursement journals, and maps of the property. Series III, photos, includes photos of Jack Martinson and comrades in the Air Force and of the Missoula Ice Company. Photos of the ice company include the building on Front Street, ice sheds, company truck, employees cutting ice from ponds in the Rattlesnake area, and former employees.
The collection consists of a ledger that documents individual financial accounts from a Bannack, Montana, area gold dredging company. The year(s) of the ledger is not known but the company operated from 1897 through 1902.
This album contains photographs of Marie Siedentopf as well as her friends and family. Many photos focus on Marie's immediate family, specifically her parents William and Else, her brother Bill, and Bill's wife Gertrude. There are photos of her family's dairy farm in Miles City, Montana and various scenes around their property. Marie's time at the State University of Montana (now the University of Montana) in Missoula is prevalent, including rush, Aber Day, and graduation. There are also photos of trips to Lolo, Montana and Hamilton, Montana. Irma Wilson, Marie's roommate from 1913 to 1914 and lifelong friend, is prominent throughout the album. Photos of a family trip to Yellowstone National Park and another to New Mexico are also included.
This collection contains Phillips' Forest Service diaries from April 1911 through June of 1942, as well as two handbooks, two years of memorandums and a 1941 photograph taken at a Forest Supervisors meeting in Utah.
The collection consists of two scrapbooks of newspaper clippings compiled by the school district. Most are from local newspapers and are about events in the school district.
The collection contains materials related to the 1908 flood in western Montana, including reminiscence by Rhoda Richardson and photographs.
The series contains a carbon copy of a reminiscence Rhoda Richardson wrote about her early life in Lothrop, Montana, and the flood of 1908, in particular. The series also contains short biographies Richardson wrote about Andrew B. Hammond and Charles E. Beckwith.
The series contains photographs of the 1908 flood of the Clark Fork River (then known as the Missoula River) in western Montana. The photographs include the Higgins Avenue Bridge in Missoula and the lumberyard at Lothrop, Montana. The series also contains photographs of logging at Ninemile Creek.
A ledger from the White Pine Mill in White Pine, Montana, for 1904-1907. The ledger includes accounts receivable for lumber sales, accounts payable for logging-related expenses, and a section by section record of logging done.
This collection contains 11 dance cards collected by Esther Ada Naylor during her time at the University of Montana-Missoula.
This collection mainly consists of glass plate negatives, film negatives and prints by Edward H. Boos, a photographer in Missoula, Montana, from 1897 through1907. Broadly, the photographic subjects include the Missoula, Mission, and Flathead valleys in Montana; Kootenai, Salish and Pend'Oreille families on Montana's Flathead Reservation; and Glacier National Park and Yellowstone National Park, all at the beginning of the 20th Century.
Some more specific photograph subjects include the Boos home, the Daly Horse Ranch (Riverside Farm / Bitterroot Stock Farm) near Hamilton, Montana, logging near Hamilton, the 25th Infantry Bicycle Corps, the Missoula Mercantile, and a Fourth of July parade in Missoula, Montana.
Also included are Boos' order booklets for "Flathead Indian Pictures."
This collection includes an array of materials by and about Huntley: biographical information, personal and professional correspondence; scripts written for his radio and television projects, speaking engagements, and news commentary projects; press clippings, primarily spanning his years with NBC; obituaries published in diverse outlets; an extensive photographic collection; a small sampling of news and documentary broadcasts; and some three-dimensional memorabilia. The collection also includes extensive information regarding Huntley's role with the Big Sky Resort. Writings include several articles Huntley wrote for magazines and essay collections as well as extensive materials relating to The Generous Years, an autobiographical account of his Montana childhood. Subject files reflect Huntley's varied research interests and clipping files consist of newspaper and magazine articles about Huntley, published through out his professional career and after his death. Big Sky materials include written proposals, correspondence with potential investors, development blue prints, promotional materials, and press clippings. Audio-visual materials include an extensive photographic collection, a small sampling of news and documentary broadcasts, and a few audiotape recordings. Mounted artifacts range from bronze sculptures to framed awards, from appreciation plaques and medals to oversize certificates.
This series includes an array of personal and biographical materials regarding Chet Huntley. Materials include memorabilia from Huntley's various endeavors, items he collected that reflect on his family history, and general biographical documents. Elementary and high school materials include a report card from 1925 and yearbooks ("The Trail") from 1927 and 1929. White House documents in this series consist of two photocopied Nixon Administration staff memos critiquing Huntley's public comments on Administration policies as well as proposing intervention on behalf of the Big Sky Resort development if Huntley would agree to support Montana Republican candidates.
This series includes incoming and outgoing correspondence with a diverse group of public figures and personal friends. Correspondence regarding Huntley's writing projects (series V) and the Big Sky Resort (series VIII) are located within those series. Materials include correspondence with international, national, and state political leaders, famous journalists and entertainers, well-regarded authors, and other American cultural figures. Some of the most notable individuals in this series are Chung Yum Kim (South Korea), Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Hubert H. Humphrey, Mike Mansfield, Arnold Olsen, Ted Kennedy, Barry Goldwater, Nelson Rockefeller, Henry M. Jackson, Dean Rusk, George C. Wallace, Tim Babcock, H.G. Merriam, John Chancellor, Vadim Golovanov, Bob Hope, Joan Crawford, Eleanor Roosevelt, Mitzi Gaynor, Jack Benny, Douglas Fairbanks, Dick Cavett, A. B. Guthrie, Jr., Lady Bird Johnson, and Mrs. Chester W. Nimitz.
This series includes transcripts from Huntley's radio and television programs. Materials are predominantly narrator copy for news broadcasts but a few interview transcriptions are also present. The contents within this series are arranged conceptually and chronologically. Box one contains general materials from both radio and television broadcasts. Often a definite determination of radio or television broadcast could not be established; thus, materials are arranged chronologically based on the best available date information. Box one also includes a script for "Strange and Terrible Times." The film version of this production, 78(X):15, can be found in the Audio and Moving Pictures series of this collection. Boxes two through six are all radio scripts. Perspective, Emphasis, and Horizons were five-minute editorial commentaries for NBC Radio.
This series contains a mixture of typed and handwritten text for speeches Huntley delivered during his career as a newscaster and after retirement. Most documents exhibit editorial changes Huntley inserted up to the moment before delivering the address. Dates are identified in the content description whenever a date could be reliably established. Materials reflect a range of topics from commentary on current events to advocacy for investment proposals.
This series ranges from manuscript materials to magazine and essay collection articles. Chet Huntley's autobiographical account of growing up in rural Montana, The Generous Years, is prominent in this series. Materials include manuscript drafts, production proofs, promotional materials, and book reviews. This series also includes a mixture of drafts and clipped selections Huntley submitted to national magazines and published essay collections. "Somehow it Works" is a bound photo essay produced by NBC News staff, using the 1964 U.S. Presidential election as a focus for reflections on the American political process.
Materials in this series are articles, reports, and general documents Huntley collected as an outcome of his professional activities and as research for broadcast scripts and public addresses. The contents of this series reflect some of the most controversial aspects of Huntley's career, such as his opposition to the American Federation of Television Radio Artists (AFTRA) strike and the Federal Communications Commission's investigation into conflict of interest allegations generated by Huntley's concurrent endeavors as a reporter and an investment spokesperson.
This series includes magazine articles, newspaper columns, and small publications detailing the development of his broadcast career, retirement, economic development projects, and his death. Materials in this series were collected by Chet Huntley, his wife and family, as well as by long time friends. Most of the materials in this series are undated.
This series contains materials related to Chet Huntley's involvement with the development of Big Sky Resort south of Bozeman, Montana. Materials include property description documents, a U. S. Geologic Survey topographic map, correspondence, publicity packets generated during several different stages of development, press clippings, and "master plan" packets prepared for potential investorsùsome of the latter are bound and others are in folders. Press clippings include an array of newspaper articles, letters to the editor, and magazine features including a significant amount of material regarding local reactions to the project and protests based on environmental concerns. Written materials on Big Sky consist of handwritten notes reflecting on the Huntley's desire to develop the resort. These notes appear to be a draft speech for an investors' conference. The Lone Mountain Ranch property description includes several embedded photographs. These photographs were retained within the document to preserve their original context.
This series contains 433 photographs spanning Chet Huntley's life, with particular emphasis on his years with NBC News and the development of the Big Sky Resort. Photos 78(IX):178 - (IX):244 & 78(IX):384 - 78(IX):432 are a mixture of family photographs, candid images of Huntley during news broadcasts, and professional promotional glossies. For preservation purposes, photos 78(IX):245 - 78(IX):275 were removed from a photo album titled "Chet Huntley in Dayton February 18, 1969." A photocopy of the album cover is included with photo # 78(IX):245. Photos 78(IX):286 - 78(IX):384 and 78(IX):433 are Big Sky development images. This collection includes modern film negative for the following prints 78(IX):1, 78(IX):5, 78(IX):137, 78(IX):138, 78(IX):142, 78(IX):154, 78(IX):205, 78(IX):289, 78(IX):290, 78(IX):291, 78(IX):292, 78(IX):373, 78(IX):377.
This series contains materials from several different media formats ranging from audiocassette tapes to 16 mm film reels. Contents include materials Huntley created during his broadcasting career, materials he collected for personal interest, as well as items of appreciation and memorial. Items 78(X):1 through 78(X):5 are LPs; 78(X):6 is an audio cassette of unknown relationship to Chet Huntley; 78(X):7 and 78(X):8 are reel-to-reel audio tapes; 78(X):9 through 78(X):16 are 16mm film; 78(X):17 is a Fairchild Moviepak Seventy 10 cassette (single-sided film within a cassette case), and 78(X):18 is a VHS cassette duplicating materials on film reels 78(X):10, 78(X):12, and 78(X):13. Items 78(X):19 through 78(X):24 are audio cassettes and reel-to-reel audio tapes that were added to this collection in 2017. Items 78(X):26 through 78(X):29 were donated as part of accession 2019-003.
A tape counter index accompanies the audio. The index was created by Archives and Special Collections.
Individual newscasts by the following: John Chancellor, Edwin Newman, David Brinkley.
A tape counter index, created by Archives and Special Collections, accompanies the audio.
A tape counter index, created by Archives and Special Collections, accompanies the audio.
A tape counter index, created by Archives and Special Collections, accompanies the audio.
Charles Osgood reports on Chet Huntley's death
A tape counter index, created by Archives and Special Collections, accompanies the audio.
Huntley's broadcasts about World War II that originally aired in 1943 and 1944. Compliations of these broadcasts were created by the Milo Ryan Phonoarchives, School of Communications, University of Washington.
A tape counter index, created by Archives and Special Collections, accompanies the audio.
Huntley's broadcasts about World War II that originally aired in 1943 and 1944. Compliations of these broadcasts were created by the Milo Ryan Phonoarchives, School of Communications, University of Washington.
A tape counter index, created by Archives and Special Collections, accompanies the audio.
The materials in this series include mounted plaques, medallions, certificates of award and appreciation, honorary degrees, and memorial declarations bestowed upon Chet Huntley as a result of his professional career as well as one item of memorabilia. Three items in this series were bestowed with a parchment certificate. The one item of memorabilia in this series is a button inscribed with "Goodnight David, Goodnight Goliath," relating to Huntley's retirement from NBC News.
Corresponds with 78(XI):13
Corresponds with 78(XI):14
Corresponds with 78(XI):3
This series includes two bronze sculptures of Chet Huntley. The Chrysler Realty Corporation commissioned these sculptures in preparation for the opening of the Big Sky Resort. Derek Wernher completed the sculptures in 1972. In 2018 a sketch by American illustrator Leo Hershfield was moved from the 'biographical' folder in Series I to this series.
The materials in this series were donated to Archives and Special Collections in 2018 by Sharon Huntley Kahn, Chet Huntley's daughter, and include materials compiled by Kahn and materials given to Kahn by Tippy Huntley.
This is a collection of audio recordings accumulated by the University of Montana's K. Ross Toole Archives from a variety of different sources. Recording formats include phonograph, cassette tape, and reel-to-reel tape. All of the audio in this collection pertains to various events and activities either hosted or participated in by the University of Montana (UM) including lectures, building dedications, event speeches, and convocations. Most of the recordings were produced by UM entities. Tape counter indexes and transcripts that were produced by the Archives exist for a few of the audio recordings in this collection.
This collection contains correspondence, financial records, and subject files that document the operations of the Mansfield Center for Pacific Affairs from 1980-1996 as well as a few published materials detailing the history of the Center and its activities. In addition to the Center's administrative files, this collection also contains masters and copies of media produced by the Center. The audio-visual media contained in this collection include video and audio masters for a documentary about Asian immigrants in the western United States titled From the Far East to the Old West: Chinese and Japanese Settlers in Montana. The collection also includes audio recordings of oral histories and their corresponding transcripts, edit logs, photographs, and artwork. Copies of the oral history audio cassettes and the transcripts comprise Oral History collection 436.
This series contains correspondence produced by the Center.
This series contains materials published by the Center about its history and activities. Most relate to events hosted by the Center.
Materials in this series include several audio-visual formats, including Beta and VHS videotapes, CDs, and DV video.
This series consists of audio recordings of interviews with individuals named below. Copies of these tapes are available as Oral History collection 436.
This series contains transcripts of the oral history interviews with the individuals named below. Copies of these transcripts are available as Oral History collection 436.
In addition to photos and images, this series also includes photo logs and computer disks.
The collection contains photographs, correspondence, clippings and miscellaneous materials related to the Miss Montana and Miss Montana State University (later The University of Montana) pageants. The collection begins with a chronological arrangement of photographs and other materials related to individual women who were Miss Montana. What follows is a chronological arrangement of photographs and other materials from the Miss Montana Pageant itself and from Miss Montana’s participation in the Miss America Pageant in Atlantic City, New Jersey. The collection also contains materials from the Miss Montana State University Pageant and other University of Montana-related items. At the conclusion of the collection are pageant programs, two artifacts, and panoramic photographs and advertisements from the Miss America Pageant.
Miss Montana State University Pageant Formal Groups, 1961
Miss Montana State University Pageant, 1961
Miss Montana State University Groups at Theta House, 1961
Miss Montana State University Pageant, 1964
This collection includes an interview (19 December 1968) with state senator Carroll Graham in Billings discussing Graham's experiences growing up in Jordan, Montana, in the 1920s; an interview in three parts (5 and 14 February 1960) with Rene J. Labrie of Harlowton, Montana, about the early Montana pioneer experiences of her father, Joseph Labrie; and four archaeological site surveys, three in Garfield County and one in Gallatin County.
This collection contains photographic slides, negatives and prints taken primarily by William R. Pierce, although images from the 1930s were likely taken by another family member. Included are images of Fort Missoula, Thompson Falls, Noxon, and Missoula, Montana. Also included are many images of Montana's Cabinet National Forest back country, several of the 1949 Mann Gulch Fire, and photos of the Pierce family and recreation around western Montana and Idaho. The majority of images in the collection were described by William Pierce or his son John.
The collection also includes a heart-shaped rock carved by a Japanese internee at Fort Missoula and given to William Pierce.
This series consists of a single heart-shaped rock sculpted for William Pierce by Japanese internees held at the Fort Missoula Alien Detention Camp during World War II.
Original manuscript and galley and page proofs of Hoehling's The Week Before Pearl Harbor
The Donald J. Schofield collection includes materials and documents from his life, education, and employment. Included in this collection are various military records dating to World War II and his position as a navigator in the Army Air Corps. The majority of the materials in this collection reflect his studies and careers in the field of forestry. Included are documents, ephemera, and records from his time at the University of Montana (then Montana State University) and his career prior to and after the completion of his forestry degree. Also included is a biography of Schofield's military career written by his daughter in 2016.
This collection consists of three photograph albums of images and some accompanying text documenting the travels and activities of Dr. Harrison, a physician for the Indian Service, and a woman (perhaps a sister). A large number of images are of Native Americans on reservations, including some who were suffering from trachoma.
Locations depicted in the albums include: White Earth Reservation, Minnesota; Lame Deer, Montana; Rosebud Reservation, South Dakota; Turtle Mountain Reservation, North Dakota; Red Lake, Minnesota; Ft. Berthold, North Dakota; Devils Lake Reservation, North Dakota; Crow Reservation, Montana; Pine Point, Minnesota; Lead, South Dakota; and remains of Ft. C. M. Smith near Hardin, Montana. Individuals named in the albums include: Chief Two Moons (Northern Cheyenne), Plenty Crow (Northern Cheyenne), Spotted Wolf (Ft. Berthold Reservation), Chief Little Fish (Devils Lake Reservation), Jim Bassett (Chippewa), Billy Fine Day (Chippewa), Strong Left Hand (Northern Cheyenne), Shell-on-the-Neck (Crow), White-Man-Runs-Him (Crow), Eugene Bird (Chippewa), Miss Mabel Grimme, Mr. W. L. Baumer, and Dr. P. G. Caps.
This collection contains a hand-edited manuscript of Jenny Was No Lady with printing instuctions and two newspaper articles about the book. The JN-4D, or Jenny, was designed to be used by the U.S. military to train pilots during World War I but was never used in combat. The Jenny, at the low cost of fifty dollars, was used by the public as early as 1918 and was used for pilot training in the private sector until 1925.
The collection contains materials from the women’s student organizations overseen by The University of Montana Dean of Women from before and after the position was replaced by the positions of Associate Director of Student Personnel Services in 1946 and the Associate Dean of Students in 1948. The collection contains minutes, manuals, reports, scrapbooks, photographs, and other materials from the following women student organizations: Mortar Board, Alpha Lambda Delta, Panhellenic, Junior Sponsors, and the Miss Montana State University Pageant.
The reel of microfilm contains George Wirt's diary entries from April through October of 1864. Most of the original entries are difficult to read but a full handwritten transcription by Harry F. Wirt follows the original. The entries chronicle Wirt's time serving with Brackett's Battalion including notes on daily conditions such as the temperature, the hour when camp broke, available water, available grazing for their horses, receiving orders to move to a new location, and the length of the day's march. He also records events or sights of interest such as meeting another troop, see "thousands of dead buffalo," and confrontations between the battalion and the various Native American tribes. Among the locations that George Wirt mentions, as he describes the troops travels, are Fort Sully, South Dakota; Fort Rice, North Dakota; Fort Benton, Montana; and Fort Ridgely, Minnesota. The collection also includes an article entitled, "Minnesota in the Civil and Indian Wars, 1861-1865" prepared by the Board of Commissioners of Minnesota, published by the Pioneer Press Company in St. Paul, Minn. in 1890 .
This collection includes memorabilia from Eudora Fulkerson's college years at The University of Montana-Missoula (then Montana State University), 1931-1935.
This is a collection of materials directly related to and largely produced during World War II, or the Second World War. Included are official government publications and items from private organizations such as patriotic societies, socialist organizations, humanitarian associations and special interest groups. They represent a wide range of opinion from Belgian, German, Polish, English, Japanese, Norwegian, and Dutch sources.
The Judi Chapman papers consist primarily of materials created from Chapman’s political work during the 1990s. This includes materials related to Chapman’s lobbying activities for the Blackfeet and Havasupai Tribes, administrative and informational materials for workshops on lobbying and the legislative process, notes relating to her work on the Missoula City-County Health Board, notes and correspondence created from her work with the Democratic Party, and files related to consultative work Chapman performed with Native American organizations in relation to grant writing. Also included are subject files supporting her work in various areas, many of which contain materials created during her years as an assistant to Pat Williams. This collection contains one series of materials created from Chapman’s work with the Mountain-Plains Education and Economic Development Program, a program designed to improve adult vocational education.
This series contains materials related to Chapman’s career as a lobbyist. This includes files used for workshops that she led for several Native American groups. Chapman’s primary work as a lobbyist was in conjunction with the Blackfeet Indians in Montana. This series also includes materials documenting her work with the Havasupai, a tribe based in Supai, which is located in northwest Arizona. As a lobbyist, Chapman worked on a host of issues including improvements with regards to Native American housing, legal systems, education, and water infrastructure. This series is divided into three subseries: Blackfeet Nation, Havasupai Tribe, and Workshops.
This subseries contains materials related to Chapman’s extensive work with the Blackfeet Indians. This includes correspondence, notes, and subject files used to advance legislation on law enforcement, education, health care, and emergency disaster assistance. Also included are materials regarding Blackfeet issues predating Chapman’s career as a lobbyist that were likely gathered when Chapman was an assistant to Representative Pat Williams. In addition, this subseries contains files related to voter mobilization efforts amongst the Blackfeet in 1992. These efforts are likely related to her work with the Montana Alliance for Progressive Policy’s get out the vote campaign.
This subseries contains materials for Chapman’s work to advance the Havasupai Tribal Water Development Project from 1993-1994. Included are correspondence, notes, reports, and subject files related to the project.
This series contains subject files, correspondence, and notes used by Chapman for her lobbying workshops. Chapman led workshops for tribes located in Montana, Washington, South Dakota, and Alaska, as well as for national organizations such as the American Indian Higher Education Consortium.
This subseries contains evaluations, notes regarding the general structure of Chapman’s workshop, and notes for specific workshops.
This subseries contains subject files Chapman used in support of her workshop. The subject files concern the Federal legislative process, lobbying, and files specifically dedicated to Native American issues.
Folder title: So You Want to be a Lobbyist
This series contains materials related to Chapman’s work with the Administration for Native Americans (ANA), the Indian Headstart Program, and American Indian Higher Education Consortium (AIHEC). Chapman served as a reader for grant proposals submitted to the ANA and as an on-site reviewer for the Indian Headstart Program. Chapman also worked with the AIHEC to develop a database providing information for several Tribal colleges.
This subseries consists of subject files related to Chapman’s work with Native American organizations.
overnight hearing on Indian Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
This subseries consists of notes, correspondence, and materials generated by Chapman concerning the creation of a database linking Tribal colleges.
memos and data
This subseries is an unprocessed group of materials created from Chapman’s work with Native American tribes as a grant reader for the ANA, as a consultant working to help Native American organizations create successful grants, and as a reviewer of Headstart Programs for the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Folder names reflect titles from the original collection inventory.
Budget, Memos, FAX Communications
Administration for Native Americans application by Loud Thunder International to fund the Montana Ojibwa Tribal Preservation project. The project purpose is cultural preservation through restoration of tribal status and restoration of relationship with American government; personal notes, memos, proposal.
Administration for Native Americans proposal, memos, letters of support, personal notes.
Administration for Native Americans Proposal 1996 – Planning for urban Economic Self – Sufficiency – memos, personal notes, proposal
Administration for Native Americans proposal, memos, personal notes review
Administration for Native Americans proposal 1996, -memos, personal notes, review
Administration for Native Americans proposal content outline 1996
Administration for Native Americans proposal application memos
American Indian Nursing Summit notes for workshop
Administration for Native Americans proposal, review
1993-1995 program review materials, news clippings, memos, personal notes
on site program review materials
on site program visit materials
site review materials
Head Start on site review materials
Creek nation information sheet; Head Start review
Head Start on site review materials
Head Start on site review materials
Information about the technical review process for the Indian Vocational Education Program
regarding IRS assessment issued to Dull Knife Memorial College for period of non payment of FICA tax and resolution. Draft Letters, memorandum and supporting evidence
consulting project to bring Northern Cheyenne Headstart Disabilities Component info compliance; correspondence; recommendations; Headstart program performance standards definition
miscellaneous papers, news clippings
Housing correspondence, memorandums
This series contains flyers, reports, and correspondence related to Chapman’s work with the City of Missoula and Missoula. Specifically, materials in this series relate to Chapman’s work to address health, environmental, and Native American issues.
This series contains materials related to Chapman’s work as a delegate to the 1996 Democratic National Convention and the get out the vote effort lead by the Montana Alliance for Progressive Policy. This series consists primarily of subject files related specific political issues and voter registration.
1995 State of the Union notes, acceptance speech from the 1992 Democratic National Convention, talking points, position papers
1993 transition to Clinton Administration by tribal organizations, position papers
Montana Democratic Party campaign plans
Native American delegates to 1988 Democratic National Convention
Religious and cultural significance, Bureau of Land Management mining proposals
grants 1987, list of vocational rehabilitation grant readers, Rehabilitation Act of 1973, amendments 1984, memos, white papers, study of Special Problems and Needs of American Indians with handicaps on and off the Reservations 1987
Criteria and Procedures – Federal register notice, personal notes, letters, position papers, report – western water, Federal and Indian rights
Welfare reform and Indian country position papers, 1995, news articles, personal notes, tribes plans
Impact Aid, School Construction for Indian People, Yakima County right to tax lands owned by individual tribal members and the tribes
Resolution to proclaim year of American Indian
This series consists of clippings and correspondence organized according to subject. It is divided into two subseries: General subject files and Native American subject files.
This subseries consists of files reflecting Chapman’s political work, both during and after her years as an assistant to Pat Williams. Files consisting entirely of unannotated clippings or publications were removed from this subseries.
correspondence, training materials, news clippings, personal notes, Montana Assertive Collective for Women
letter regarding Reapportionment Commission’s decision to fragment Blackfeet and Flathead tribes
Child Care and Development Black Grant, 1990; childcare provisions in budget reconciliation; news clippings
NEA policy paper, Department of Education papers
interview with Jack Barden, University of North Dakota
Cassette tape. Topic very similar to a United Press Interational (UPI) article published on the same date by the New York Times.
This subseries consists of files reflecting Chapman’s political work, both during and after her years as an assistant to Pat Williams. Files consisting entirely of unannotated clippings or publications were removed from this subseries.
Title on folder: ANA T and TA
Bureau of Indian Affairs brutality news clippings, notes
A Bill recognizing native governments, edited by Judi Chapman
Draft Bill establishing National Indian Policy Center and supporting organizational documents 1991
Title VI and Indian Tribes and authority regarding regulation of pesticides
This series contains materials related to Chapman’s work as Senior Instructor of Educational and Social Services with the Mountain-Plains Education and Economic Development Program, based on Glasgow Air Force Base in Glasgow, Montana. The program was based on a model of “family oriented career education,” which was intended to improve vocational education for disadvantaged families by providing educational, financial, and social support through an on-site training program. Materials in this series include training and educational materials used in the program, much of which Chapman authored, correspondence, and notes.
The collection is primarily a corporate history. The documents are focused on the workings of two mining companies that owned and operated the Drumlummon mine in Marysville, Montana, over five decades. The collection contains correspondence, papers for the Drumlummon Provident and Accident Insurance Association, financial records, governance, legal documents, and printed materials. The collection provides insight into the challenges of operating a mine in Montana. The majority of the collection consists of incoming correspondence. The letters generally are business oriented and are from suppliers of mining supplies and services that the Montana Mining Company and the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company used. The financial records include detailed accounting of the costs and rewards of the mine. The governance primarily concerns stockholder struggles to control the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company in the years after it took control of the Drumlummon property. The bulk of legal documents relate to litigation between the Montana Mining Company and the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company from 1890 to 1911. The remainder of the collection relates to all aspects of the routine functioning of an underground silver and gold mine in Montana.
The series is arranged chronologically beginning in 1881. There is a single folder of outgoing correspondence for 1887 to 1890. The remainder of the series is all incoming correspondence dating through 1934. The bulk of the letters are from suppliers of mining goods and services. The letters range from national suppliers of sophisticated mining equipment like Fraser and Chalmers to local suppliers of hay for company stables. Many of the letters merely solicit business from the mining companies, attempting to sell everything from flint pebbles for ore processing to the services of a zither player. The letters from suppliers include information on the whole range of materials required by the two companies and the national scope of the mining business. Many of the letters concern the costs of supplies and the difficulty of shipping material to Marysville. The letters also relate to unpaid bills, mine injuries, job inquiries, and the personal matters of various managers. There are letters regarding other mining properties, price quotations, clippings from the Engineering and Mining Journal, and mining prospects at the Drumlummon. There are several items of particular interest in this series. The communications between the London headquarters of the Montana Mining Company and Marysville are generally in telegraphic code for secrecy. There are numerous code sheets to help company officials decode the messages. Slater's Telegraphic Code Book in Series VII also relates to this material. The correspondence relating to both companies also overlaps chronologically. Letters relating to the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company appear in the files nearly 20 years before they own the Drumlummon. There is also a report from a Pinkerton detective investigating union activity in Marysville and Butte. The series provides insight into the international nature of mining in Montana. The letters also detail the logistical and financial difficulties of running a mine.
This brief series contains material relating to the Montana Mining Company's insurance subsidiary. The Association was limited to employees of the Montana Mining Company. The Board of Trustees was composed of two members elected by employees and two members appointed by the Company. The series includes a copy of the by-laws, rules, and regulations of the Association from 1900. The remainder of the series consists of the canceled checks of the Insurance Association dating from 1888 to 1897. These provide insight into the costs of running the Insurance Association and include both claims paid to workers and materials for administration.
This series is broken into several categories and arranged chronologically within each category. The categories within the series are arranged alphabetically. The series contains materials housed in traditional folders and a significant number of oversize materials. These are housed in oversize boxes and map cases. The bulk of this series is comprised of assay reports, bullion returns, and mill reports. However, there are folders for assets and liabilities, federal reports, insurance, invoices, mine progress reports, claim descriptions and names, payroll records, reports on other mines, and tax assessments. The materials in the series provide a solid background for understanding the finances of the Drumlummon mine and the two companies that owned it. The assay reports present a fairly complete picture of the ore values for the early years of the mine. The quantity of reports declines sharply after 1902 and is sporadic for the ensuing years. The bullion returns document the metal bars produced after smelting. These returns are less complete than the assay returns. They are intermittent for the entire history of the mine, although the period around 1900 is reasonably complete. Mill reports concern the quantity of the ore processed at each of the stamp mills that the companies operated. They also contain information concerning the quantity of pulp and tailings each produced and the values of the ore being processed. These reports are very complete through the early 1890's and include a set of blueprints for a 1913 mill. There are reports on several other mines in British Columbia, the Lucky Girl in Tuscarora, Nevada, and the Silver Bell in Montana. The Lucky Girl was owned by the Montana Mining Company and the reports include most financial aspects of the operations over eight years. The payroll records and invoices for the Drumlummon are incomplete but provide insight into the costs of running a mine. They also include crucial information about workers and the division of labor in the mines. The information on expenses and assets is very useful for understanding the difficulties of financing mining. The information is particularly detailed for the era between 1883 and 1907. There are detailed descriptions of the costs of individual shafts, mills, and payroll. The order books contain detailed records for all the goods required for the years from 1887 to 1897 and the orders for the Rose Densmore mine for 1890. The delivery book contains information for goods delivered from 1889 to 1897. There are folders containing information on tax assessments of the mines from 1888 to 1933 and the Federal Census of Mines for 1926 to 1933. There are a few insurance documents relating to death benefits for a miner and a fire insurance policy from 1913. There are also reports of equipment for the Marysville Electric Light and Water Company.
This series contains materials related to the governance of both the Montana Mining Company and the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company. The material is primarily focused on official company correspondence, decisions, and records. The bulk of material is concentrated in the period from 1911 to 1933 and the control of the Drumlummon by the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company. The information includes reports from the Board of Directors, cable reports from the Montana Mining Company, mining reports from outside experts, mine superintendent reports, and the letters and reports of the corporate officers of the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company. Bondholder and Stockholder records and letters represent the majority of the material in the series. The divisive struggles that plagued the mine after the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company took control of the property are clearly documented here. The fight to raise money for mine improvements and to fend off bankruptcy can be traced in the letters and reports. These letters and reports contain requests for share assessments, candid evaluations of the company's financial situation, and accusations of mismanagement from various stockholder factions. The reports from the secretary of the Montana Company are generally quarterly earnings statements, although there are some monthly returns and some changes in share volume and working capital. Most of the officers' material from the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company is also related to the financial struggles of the company beginning in 1908. The bulk of these folders contain letters to stockholders asking for money, assessing shares, or reporting on the desperate financial straits of the corporation. The reports from outside mining experts candidly assess the mineral and financial opportunities available at the Drumlummon mine at two significant points in the mine's history. The first round of reports is from 1882 to 1885 and was used by the Montana Mining Company to judge the value of the property prior to their initial purchase of the mine from Thomas Cruse. The second report is from Harry Quinby criticizing the management of the mine by St. Louis Mining and Milling superintendent William Mayger in 1912. The superintendents' reports span nearly the entire life of the Drumlummon from 1885 to 1929. They provide insight into the more routine workings of the mine and the breadth of expertise required of a mine manager. These reports also provide a more intimate overview of the workings of the mines than the reports of the company officers. The series is rounded out by cable reports to the London headquarters of the Montana Mining Company from 1886 to 1901 and a number of unidentified mine reports.
This series contains material relating to the legal affairs of both the Montana Mining Company and the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company. The series is arranged chronologically with materials grouped in folders according to years. The series begins with a Marysville mining claim from 1875 which is housed in an oversize box. The bulk of the remaining material relates to the apex litigation between the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company and the Montana Mining Company beginning in 1890 and continuing until the settlement of the suit in 1911. The majority of documents from the case are legal briefs but there also legal decisions, summons, injunctions, and sheriff's deeds. The papers provide insight into the bitter legal battle for control of the mining ground in question. This struggle resulted in the eventual victory of the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company and the sale of the Montana Mining Company's property at sheriff's sale in 1911. There are also briefs and other documents relating to litigation between the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company and a number of suppliers and employees. The documents in the series after 1911 relate to the struggle for control of the St. Louis Mining and Milling Company. The resulting fight to keep the Drumlummon open was waged among stock and bondholders and in court from 1911 to the closing of the mines in the 1930's. The remainder of the series is rounded out by attorney's bills, garnishment of wages, leases, settlements with injured workers, and an undated brief from the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
This small series contains a smattering of printed materials. There are newspaper clippings from Helena and Butte newspapers from 1924 to 1989. The majority of the articles pertain to attempts at re-opening the Drumlummon mine. There is a folder containing undated signs relating to safety and worker's compensation in the mine. A copy of Slater's Telegraphic Code from 1870 is included here and is useful in deciphering some of the coded telegrams sent from Marysville to the London headquarters of the Montana Mining Company. There are reports of the Montana Society of Civil Engineers from 1897. These include meeting summaries and a list of all Society members in February 1897. Finally there are printed materials with the headings of the Montana Mining Company and the Drumlummon Provident and Accident Insurance Association. These include unused envelopes, stationery, labor use reporting sheets for the mine and mills, and order forms.
This collection includes correspondence, the manuscript, and photos from the book Top o' the Mountain: Charley Whitcomb, Mining Man.
This series includes four items of correspondence, a miscellaneous note, a poem, a copy of the book manuscript, and photograph captions. Only one piece of correspondence is dated.
This series includes photographs of the Klimper family, friends, business associates, Klimper residences, the Zortman area, and the Ruby mine. Most of the photos were included in the book and their descriptions in this finding aid were taken from captions in the book.
The collection consists of his business and personal correspondence and materials from the Louis Amans estate, of which he was the executor. The correspondence concerns supplies and financial affairs of his general store and Martin's connections with fraternal and business organizations. The Louis Amans file documents Martin's attempts to locate suitable care for Mrs. Amans and to settle her financial affairs.
This series contains Martin's business and personal correspondence. Much of it concerns supplies and financial affairs of his general store; his suppliers responded to the fire of 1928 with condolences and adjustments to his usual orders. The correspondence with Montana Power from 1929 contains a petition for the company to supply Alberton residents with electric lights. Some of the letters are personal, and include those sent by a friend from the Montana State Hospital in Warm Springs. There are also letters concerned with Martin's membership in his various fraternal and business organizations.
This series contains materials related to the Louis Amans Estate, of which Martin was the executor. The death of Amans left his widow, Maud Ammans, in poor health and virtually without assets. The file documents Martin's attempts to locate suitable care for Mrs. Amans and to settle her financial affairs.
This collection includes many photos, dating between 1978 and 1990, showing various members and member functions; newsletters written and sent out by the chapter president; correspondence between members; and files relating to a variety of community outreach programs, including a Regional Youth Seminar.
This series contains information on bylaws, organizational procedures, newsletters and seminars
The photographs are of events, parties, officer installations and Soroptimist fundraisers.
The scrapbook contains photographs, invitations, letters and assorted memorabilia.
From 2005-2010, Bob Brown conducted oral history interviews with a variety of political figures in Montana. The interviewees ranged from state legislators, lobbyists, attorneys and journalists, to Montana Constitutional Convention delegates and officials in administrative and financial branches of the Montana State government. A few highlights within the topics are Montana and the Anaconda Company, the recurring sales tax referendum, mining, elections, deregulation, and the legislative process over time.
Patten discusses his work as a lobbyist in Montana during the 1960s. He also talks about working with Governor Tim Babcock. He reminisces about Governors Donald Nutter and Ted Schwinden and other lobbyists with whom he worked.
Delano talks about his career as a lobbyist and describes some of the other lobbyists he knew. He discusses various changes in Montana politics from the 1950s to 2005 including the 1972 Constitutional Convention, term limitations, and the role lobbyists play in Montana politics. He also describes working with various Montana governors and provides anecdotes about each one.
Shanahan, a former railway association lobbyist, provides various anecdotes about his time working with the legislature including former governors, important issues, watering holes, the Anaconda Company and Montana Power Company, many influential legislators, and his relationship with Wellington Rankin.
Haughey, a former legislator and a former lobbyist, describes the legislature in 1945 and onward, Anaconda lobbyists and hospitality room, governors and politicians, hunting trips with politicians, and sales tax reform and other political issues of his day.
O’Neil discusses how his career began in politics, various legislators who were influential, various important issues in the legislature, and influences of the Anaconda Company and Montana Power Company. He ends by describing his campaign for re-election.
McGarvey was a Democratic member of the Montana House of Representatives 1957-1959, a lawyer, and active in Montana public affairs. He discusses legislation he either supported or encountered in the House (education, occupational disease/silicosis/workers’ compensation, public utility districts), the Anaconda Company lobbyists and their influence in politics, his relationship with other Montana politicians, McCarthyist accusations against him, and suspected vote-buying by Montana corporations.
Robinson discusses his recollections of Montana governors whom he met while working as a lobbyist, the influences of the Montana Power Company and Anaconda Company on Montana politics, and various significant politicians. He provides anecdotes of his time working in politics and ends by detailing the various roles of a lobbyist.
McOmber describes his affiliation with the Farmer’s Union as a young politician, the effects of the Montana Power Company and the Anaconda Company on Montana politics, and his terms in the legislature. He details his relationships with various legislators, governors, and lobbyists. He ends by giving a description of the legislature’s procedures before and after the new 1972 Montana constitution.
Former lobbyist (Crippen) and attorney (Brown) for the Anaconda Company describe how they got connected with the Company, Crippen initially through his father-in-law and Brown after army service, law school and government work focused on labor relations. They recall experiences working for the Anaconda Company including reviewing and promoting Montana legislation, the Company’s hospitality room, relationships with legislators and other prominent figures, and other anecdotes of the time from 1955 through the 1970s.
Gunderson, a former Montana legislator, recalls being raised as a Democrat, the Farmers Union, the Farm Labor Coalition, the 1972 Constitutional Convention and its continuing impact, Anaconda Company influence, and various legislation. He describes his interactions with legislators, former governors, and his relationships with other Montana political figures.
Renders, a Montana lobbyist, public relations specialist, and journalist, describes his liberal political background, the personalities of politicians he has known in his career, the Anaconda Company’s involvement in state politics, control of the press in Montana, dynamics at the Great Falls Tribune, and advice for liberals of the future.
Nichols, a former Montana legislator, describes his career in Montana politics and the family influences that persuaded him to run for the legislature. He goes on to describe his relationships with various Montana governors, politicians, and lobbyists before moving into a description of the Anaconda Company’s heavy influence on Montana politics for many decades.
Himsl begins with his arrival in Kalispell, Montana, in 1945 and recalls his 60 years of community service including 24 years as a state legislator. He offers his impressions of and interactions with governors and legislators including Wellington D. Rankin and Governors Nutter, Aronson, and Babcock. Himsl includes anecdotes and discussions of issues including state sales tax and the Anaconda Company.
Murray, former Montana legislator and floor leader of the Constitutional Convention, explains how he became interested in politics and the influences on his choice of party affiliation. He recalls working with former Montana governors and their personalities, influential legislators, lobbyists. The interview ends with Murray’s explanation of his role in the Montana Constitutional Convention and the process of getting the new document adopted.
Gilluly begins with a discussion of his family’s experience in journalism and then discusses his experiences working for The Great Falls Tribune, the Missoulian, and the Ravalli Republican. He extensively addresses the issue of press control by the Anaconda Company. He talks about politicians he has known in Montana
Kolstad, former Montana legislator and lieutenant governor, reviews his time in politics in Montana including descriptions of influential legislators, issues, and lobbyists. He describes his campaign with Stan Stephens. Kolstad explains his involvement in national politics including relationships with Montana congressmen and Presidents Reagan, Bush Sr., and George W. Bush.
Poore, a Butte, Montana, attorney, discusses the interaction between the Anaconda Company and the city of Butte, Montana. He describes the Columbia Gardens Amusement Park. He discusses his relationship with the William A. Clark family (his wife’s grandfather was Francis Wharton, Clark’s “right-hand man”), the John Ryan family, the Cornelius Kelley family, and others. He talks about the Anaconda Company lobbyists and executives that he knew personally; his law practice in Butte and some of the cases he tried during the McCarthy era; and politicians he knew. He ends with comments on the relationship between the Anaconda Company, Montana Power, and Montana society.
Lahr, former Montana Power Company lobbyist, discusses the workings of the Montana Power Company during the 1960s up until the 1980s. He tells stories of interaction between former legislators, governors, and other lobbyists and subjects such as territorial integrity, the Constitutional Convention, relationship with the Anaconda Company, and history of the Montana Power Company, providing an in-depth review of working as a Montana Company lobbyist.
Babcock, former Montana governor, discusses his early political career, his relationship to and the death of Governor Don Nutter, his relationship with other local and national politicians (Forrest Anderson, Hugo Aronson, Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon, Wellington Rankin, Mike Mansfield and others), and the influence of the Anaconda Company on Montana politics.
Anderson, Republican lawyer, oil lobbyist and Montana state legislator, discusses his involvement in state politics and his relationship with other state politicians, beginning with recollections of his father’s political career before turning to his own first congressional session in 1947. He also discusses some of the key issues during his terms in office such as the Yellowtail Dam controversy, gambling regulation, Anaconda Company and Montana Power Company political dealings, public utility districts, the formation of the Montana legislative council, sales tax, the 1972 Constitutional Convention, and coal and oil industry taxation. Anderson also describes the mock congressional sessions that he organized in the 1950s and 1960s. Finally, Anderson notes changes in tenor in the state legislature from his early days to the present.
Pichette was a Northwestern Corporation executive, a Montana Democrat with a long career in politics and public service, and a former executive director of the Democratic Party in Montana. He describes working for Montana Congressmen Olson and Melcher in Washington, D.C.; organizing political campaigns for and general impressions of Montana politicians, including Governor Ted. Schwinden, for whom he worked; the 1972 Constitutional Convention; the coal severance tax; changes in the Democratic Party; electrical deregulation; and his experiences working for Montana Power and Northwestern Corporation.
Sheehy talks about his interest in politics at a young age and the political and social climate of Butte, Montana, when he was growing up. He describes Montana politicians he has known (Jerry O’Connell, Jim Murray, Wellington Rankin, Mike Mansfield, John Metcalf, Ted Schwinden, others). He talks about Anaconda lobbying techniques and personalities. He ends with a discussion of his time on the Supreme Court.
Bennett, a District judge and public servant, begins by discussing his childhood in Depression and drought era Scobey, Montana, mentioning the desperation that led to the election of communists in the 1930s. He talks about the rise of the Farmers Union in Montana and the business of farming in the state, the issue of press control by the Anaconda Company, his involvement in Lee Metcalf’s political campaigns, contrasts Metcalf and Mansfield, involvement in Forest Anderson’s campaign, and other Montana politicians he has known.
Lucas, a former legislator, describes how he became interested in politics and his political philosophy. He discusses the lobbyists, Montana governors and fellow legislators with whom he worked. He also provides anecdotes about various pieces of legislation during his 1962-1972 stint in the Montana Legislature.
Hawks, speaker of the Montana House of Representatives in 1961, discusses his first congressional race in 1948 and many of the politicians he served with, the influence of the Anaconda Company and Montana Power Company on state politics and the lobbyists who worked for them, the establishment of the prison ranch in Deer Lodge, the peyote bill, Yellowtail Dam bill, Montana Stock Growers Association, the Public Utility District bill, and Montana governors and other politicians he served with in the House
Leuthold provides his recollections of former governors such as Nutter, Babcock, Schwinden and influential legislators during his term in the Montana House of Representatives, 1950-1968. He also recalls his experience in the 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention.
Eskildsen explains his personal relationships with prominent Montana legislators, congressmen, and governors especially during his terms in the Montana House of Representatives from 1954 to 1964. He describes issues with the Montana State Penitentiary in Deer Lodge. He recalls his experience in the 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention and specific issues of the time.
Fraser Rosell, a former Montana legislator, describes influences leading to her party affiliation, her early legislative work, and relationships with other members of the Montana legislature. She recalls the trend in female interest in politics while she was in the legislature. She compares the new and old state constitutions.
Mathers, a former Montana legislator and Senate president, describes how he became interested in and involved with politics in Montana. He compares and contrasts the state government and parties of Texas and Montana and their influence over his party affiliation. He recalls partisan issues that were fought in the legislature including public utility districts, budget cuts, Anaconda Company and Montana Power Company influences, and the sales tax. He recalls strong legislators and governors, as well as his work on the Board of Regents for the state university system.
Smith, a former Montana legislator, describes his involvement on important legislation, the Wheat Commission, resolving the rural electricity issue by amending a previous bill, and participation in the Senate Finance Commission in Montana. He gives his impressions of former governors, legislators, and running for governor.
Aasheim, a former Montana legislator and delegate to the 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention, describes his initial interest in politics, his first campaign for the election to the House of Representatives in 1959, his first legislative session, and his experiences during the Montana Constitutional Convention. He discusses the various governors that he served with and his impressions of influential legislators.
Raised in Billings, Montana, Tidball, the first director of Montana Legislative Council, 1960s lawyer and lobbyist for the Anaconda Company, attended The University of Montana from 1949-1955, graduating with degrees in business and law. He discusses his work as the first director of the Montana Legislative Council, which attempted to make the legislative process more modern, functional and efficient. From there, he assesses legislators who stood out to him. Tidball began working as a lawyer and sometime-lobbyist for the Anaconda Company in 1965. He describes other Anaconda lawyers, lobbyists, and key company players, as well as lobbying strategies (including the use of a hospitality room). He finishes by describing some reasons for the waning power and influence of the company in the 1970s, the sale of the company to Atlantic Richfield Company, and the closing of the mine.
Rolfe, a former Montana legislator and conservative leader, discusses how he became interested in politics as a youth, his continued activity as a teenager and young adult, and finally his role at the Republican National Convention of 1975, where he sought to nominate Ronald Reagan for president. Rolfe discusses this convention and his views on Ronald Reagan at length.
Mockler, a former Montana legislator and lobbyist for the mining industry, describes his background in Wyoming and moves on to the effects of Montana and Wyoming’s coal taxes in 1975. Mockler details the effect of the coal tax on Montana’s coal business contracts, his relationship with Governor Schwinden and the “window of opportunity.” He ends with his opinion of coal bed methane development
Fjare, a former Montana legislator, begins by describing how he became interested in politics. He explains how the Anaconda Company’s support helped him get elected to the U.S. Congress in 1954. Later he describes how the Anaconda Company’s intense oversight and pressure led him to break off the relationship. Fjare discusses his relationships with Presidents Eisenhower, Nixon, and Ford. He describes his involvement with the Yellowtail Dam project and other major issues during his time in Congress
Mr. Galt is a state senator, president of state senate, and Republican national committeeman while Mrs. Galt was a young county attorney in Fergus County, active in Republican politics, and was the widow of Wellington Rankin. The couple discusses their families’ backgrounds in Montana politics and their own evolving political awareness and activity. Each gives their impressions of governors and legislators in Montana, as well as the role of the Anaconda Company in state politics. Louise talks extensively about the activities of her late husband, Wellington Rankin, attorney general, state Supreme Court justice, and brother of Jeannette Rankin.
Stan Stephens is a broadcast journalist and recipient of the Edward R. Murrow Prize, state senator, and former Republican governor of Montana. An immigrant from Canada, Stephens begins the interview with a description of his career in broadcast journalism. In 1969, he was elected to the state senate and served for 16 years before running for governor, an office he held from 1989-1993. Other topics include his political campaigns and his tenure as governor, with reference to the 1972 Constitutional Convention, coal and sales tax, education (including vocational), lobbyists, budgetary issues, and Native American reservations and social issues. Stephens gives his impressions of a number of legislators, governors, lobbyists, and presidents.
Former Montana State Supreme Court Chief Justice Turnage describes his past involvement in law and his inspirations to run for public offices. He describes his time in the legislature, introduced bills, and ends by describing his work in the Montana State Supreme Court. He explains generally how cases are heard at the Supreme Court as well as specific incidents.
Towe, former Montana legislator, begins by telling various stories about the Montana Copper Kings and the Anaconda Company. This leads to his lengthy discussion on the development of the coal tax bill and the coal trust fund. He recollects various events and issues during his time in the legislature.
Frank, a former Montana legislator, describes issues in the legislature including rural electric co-ops and the Anaconda Company. He ends by describing his work in the Rural Electrification Association and the Farmers Union and Farmers Home Association and issues in agriculture.
Bishop, a former Montana legislator and Fish and Game commissioner, describes issues he encountered while he was with the Fish and Game. He recalls anecdotes during his earlier years as a Billings attorney and other influential lawyers. He describes his various campaigns for the legislature and for the Republican primary for governor. He ends by describing his relationships with previous governors and speculates on the future of Montana.
Lynch, a former Montana legislator, discusses his career in politics including the Anaconda Company, the Montana Power Company, his relationships with governors Forrest Anderson, Tom Judge, Stan Stephens, and other influential legislators, and issues of the time including sales tax, term limits, the Constitutional Convention, lobbyists, and foreign investments.
Schiltz, a former Montana legislator, describes the influence of the Montana Power Company and the Anaconda Company on Montana politics during the 1950s and his work at the Montana Constitutional Convention.
Karl Ohs, former Lieutenant Governor, legislator, and FBI negotiator at the Freemen standoff provides an in depth look at his involvement as a negotiator during the Freemen standoff near Jordan, Montana, in 1996, the Freeman trial, and the aftermath.
Schwinden, a former Montana legislator and governor from 1981-1989, begins by describing his growing interest in politics during high school and his activity in Roosevelt County, Montana. He discusses the legislature and provides stories about his dealings with other former governors and legislators including Forrest Anderson, Tim Babcock, Tom Judge, and Stan Stephens. He offers his perspective on issues such as the Resource Indemnity Trust, university funding, and gerrymandering. He ends by describing how Montana has changed over a century and possibilities for the future.
Norman, a Montana legislator from 1970-1990, recalls growing up in Minnesota and the earliest political influences that led him to become a Democrat. He credits his first political interest and activity with interest in Minnesotan Gene McCarthy, a U.S. senator. He discusses the legislature and provides stories about his dealings with other former governors and legislators including Dorothy Bradley, Thomas Towe, Luke McKeon, Jim Murray (lobbyist), Forrest Anderson, Tom Judge, Ted Schwinden, and Stan Stephens. He offers his perspective on issues such as coal development, the coal tax, abortion and the future of Montana.
Judge, the Montana governor from 1972 to 1980, describes how he became interested in politics as a young man and his eventual election to the legislature. He describes the influence of the Anaconda Company and the Montana Power Company, coal development, the Federal Strip Mine Reclamation Act, and the Constitutional Convention. He explains his relationships with governors and legislators including Forrest Anderson, Tim Babcock, Ted Schwinden, Lee Metcalf, John Melcher, and Mike Mansfield. He ends with his opinion on Montana's future.
Murray, a former leader in Montana AFL/CIO and related labor unions, discusses his involvement with the AFL/CIO from 1968-1991, the labor movement in Montana, and worker’s rights. He discusses various influential leaders including Lee Metcalf, Mike Mansfield, Arnold Olsen, and Chet Blaylock
Eck, a member of the League of Women Voters, a 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention delegate, and Montana legislator for five terms, 1980-2000, explains the events that guided her interests in politics, her eventual membership and presidency of the Montana League of Women Voters and discusses issues backed by that organization. She discusses her experience in the Montana Senate, 1980-2000, and describes former political leaders such as Mike Mansfield, Lee Metcalf, Arnold Olsen, and various influential legislators. At the end of the interview, she gives a detailed account of her participation in the Montana Constitutional Convention.
Fagg, a former Montana legislator (1968-1984) of Billings, Montana, recalls his family’s political nature and that influence on his political philosophy, his involvement with the Junior Chamber of Commerce, and his eventual relationship with Congressman Jim Batten. He explains his initial reactions to being in the legislature, relationships with various legislators, and legislation for the environmental movement. Specific issues include the Hard Rock Mining Bill, a sales tax campaign, a proposed coal moratorium, and the League of Towns and Cities.
Lockrem, from Billings, Montana, is a former Montana legislator (1971-1981) and lobbyist for the Montana Contractors Association. He recalls experiences in the Marine Corp and working in a family construction business that peaked his interest in politics and running for the legislature. He details his relationships with former lobbyists, particularly from the Anaconda Company and Montana Power Company, and former Governor Tom Judge. He also explains the effect of single-member districts, implemented by the 1972 Constitutional Convention, on Yellowstone County politics. Other specifics include a proposed sales tax bill, the Anaconda Company, Governor Tom Judge, and natural resources.
Marks, of Helena, Montana, is a former state legislator of Jefferson County (1969-1989) and former Speaker of the House in Montana. He describes becoming interested in politics early and his affiliation with the Republican Party. He contrasts his campaign for election to the House of Representatives with today’s process and he describes his first impressions of the legislature and of influential politicians. He discusses territorial integrity, coal mining, the influence of the Anaconda Company and Montana Power Company, and his relationship with various lobbyists. Marks ends with his impressions of various Governors Judge, Anderson, Stephens, and Schwinden, and their administrations and the future of Montana.
Paynter, a former legislative fiscal analyst and deputy budget director, discusses her experiences with financial affairs in the Montana legislature over more than 25 years. She explains her fiscal responsibilities including budget preparation, tax increases, and revenue estimation. She compares the administrations of Governors Schwinden, Stephens, Racicot, Martz, and Schweitzer, and the general effectiveness of each.
Lewis, a former budget analyst and Montana legislator, describes his 40 year participation in politics including his work as budget director, campaign contributor, director of the Department of Administration, director of the State Board of Investments, and as a member of the Montana legislature where he served as chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. Lewis discusses the pros and cons of being a partisan politician and reflects on changing governmental trends in Montana. Lewis maintains some focus on Governors Judge, Schwinden, Stephens, Racicot and Martz; their agendas; and conflicts during various administrations.
Lynch, a former Montana legislator from Butte, Montana, discusses his family history and the events leading up to his work in Montana politics. He describes campaigning in Butte, his work on the House Appropriations Committee, the influence of the Montana Power Company and the Anaconda Company on Montana politics, and discusses governors that he served with including Tom Judge, Ted Schwinden, Stan Stephens, and Marc Racicot. He recalls other issues including a coal moratorium and term limits.
Mazurek, a former Montana State Senator and gubernatorial candidate, discusses his involvement in ASUM [Associated Students of the University of Montana] while attending The University of Montana-Missoula. He briefly discusses influential politicians through his years in the Montana Senate, the Montana Power Company and Anaconda Company’s role in Montana politics, various lobbyists, controversial bills, and past governors, Ted Schwinden and Stan Stephens.
Jergeson, a former Montana State senator, describes his over thirty years, beginning in the 1970s, in the Montana State Senate, mostly in terms of fellow politicians. He talks about Francis Bardanouve’s mentorship during the early part of his political career. He also reminisces about fellow legislators including Fred Van Valkenburg, John Mercer, Bruce Crippen and Governors Judge, Schwinden, Racicot, Stevens and Martz.
Halligan, a former Montana State Senator, lieutenant gubernatorial candidate and lobbyist, discusses his twenty years (1980-2000) serving in the Montana State Senate and why he became involved in politics. He talks about fellow legislators (Chet Blaylock, Jean Turnage, Francis Bardanouve, Bill Norman, Joe Mazurek, and Bruce Crippen) and lobbyists with whom he worked and reflects on Governors Schwinden, Stephens, Racicot, Martz and Schweitzer. He talks about the Montana Power Company’s influence and describes work on de-regulation, sales tax and term-limits and talks about his run for the lieutenant governorship with gubernatorial candidate Dorothy Bradley.
Van Valkenburg, a Missoula County County Attorney, former Montana State Senator, and former Montana State Senate Majority Leader, describes his Catholic upbringing and how that along with John Kennedy’s presidency inspired him to run for public office. He reminisces about his years as the Montana Senate’s Majority Leader and serving with Representatives Jean Turnage, Matt Himsl, Francis Bardanouve and others. He discusses working with Montana governors Tom Judge, Ted Schwinden, Stan Stephens, Marc Racicot. He recalls legislation like de-regulation and the coal tax.
Harrington, a former Montana state legislator and Montana Constitutional Convention delegate, discusses the Anaconda Company and its influence on Butte, mining operations, and Montana state politics. He describes deregulation of electricity in the state and Montana Power Company lobbyists. He also talks about the 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention and the changes made to the constitution that affected the Anaconda Company.
Bradley, a former Montana state legislator, and state gubernatorial candidate, describes the events that drew her to run for the Montana House of Representatives at the age of 23. She talks about being the only woman in the Montana House in 1971 and her introduction of the abortion bill in Montana. She discusses fellow legislators including John Hall, Dan Yardley, Ken Nordtvedt, Francis Bardanouve, and Mike Halligan. She recalls her environmental activism as a representative and her unsuccessful campaign for governor in 1992.
Kemmis, a former Montana state legislator and former Speaker of the Montana House of Representatives, reminisces about his family’s politics and his college years at Harvard and how they influenced him to run for public office. He talks about Montana governors Tom Judge and Ted Schwinden. He discusses different lobbyists with whom he worked and the role the Anaconda Company and the Montana Power Company played in Montana politics.
Thomas, a former Montana state senator and gubernatorial candidate, discusses his 20-plus years serving in the Montana State Legislature. He describes how his family’s involvement in politics encouraged him to become a politician. He briefly talks about fellow legislators including Elmer Severson, Bill Groff, Bob Marks, Jack Ramirez, and Bob Thoft. He also discusses his introduction of the deregulation bill and its effect on Montana’s economy.
Mercer, a former Montana state legislator and Speaker of the Montana House, describes his early experiences in the Montana House and fellow legislators including Dave Brown, Francis Bardanouve, Jack Ramirez, John Vincent, Hal Harper, Bob Thoft, John Harp, Fred Thomas and Fred Van Valkenburg. He talks about his leadership philosophy as Speaker and the role of the Republicans in the Montana Legislature during the 1990s. He also discusses governors Ted Schwinden, Marc Racicot, Stan Stephens, Judy Martz, and Brian Schweitzer.
Vincent, a former Montana state legislator and Speaker of the House, describes his interest in political science and how that influenced him to run for public office. He discusses his leadership roles in the Montana House of Representatives and Speaker of the House, Minority Leader, and Majority Whip. He talks about members of the House as well as Montana governors Stan Stephens, Ted Schwinden and Brian Schweitzer.
Hansen, a lobbyist for the Montana League of Cities and Towns, reminisces about growing up in Butte, Montana, during the 1940s and 1950s. Hansen discusses working for Montana Governor Forrest Anderson, describing the governor’s work style and vision for Montana state politics.
Crippen, a former Montana state senator, talks about his twenty years of service as a Montana state senator. He describes working with Montana governors Stan Stephens, Marc Racicot and Judy Martz. He also discusses his involvement in Marc Racicot’s gubernatorial campaign.
Elin G. Parks, a former professional dancer and model, talks about her grandfather, former U. S. Senator Thomas Walsh. She discusses his career and the details surrounding his death. She also talks about her life as the wife of a naval officer and Mobile Oil employee.
Hoag talks about living on Lake McDonald in Glacier National Park. He reminisces about spending time with two Montana senators, Tom Walsh and Burton K. Wheeler, and their families.
Cobb, a former Montana state representative, discusses his introduction to politics and why he decided to run for the Montana State Legislature. He describes his years in the legislature and fellow legislators including Bob Marks, Chuck Swysgood, Leo Giaocometta, and John Mercer. He also talks about the different governors he served under including Judy Martz, Marc Racicot, and Stan Stephens. He finishes with speculation on the future on the Republican Party, the Tea Party and the Montana State Legislature.
The collection contains records relating to his various businesses, especially Carr & Peck of Ronan, Montana; and personal papers, including correspondence and a diary. The Carr & Peck materials include financial and legal agreements, correspondence with suppliers, and financial records that include customer names in Ronan. Personal materials include personal letters between Carr and family members, his diary from 1905 to 1915, and his personal impressions of Taft, Montana. Photographs include images of Taft, Hamilton, the Bitterroot Valley, and Elkhorn, Montana.
The collection contains seven items: a Foreign Currency Exchange certificate from 1921, Northwest Improvement Company wage statements, Red Lodge, Montana, from 1918 and 1921, a stock certificate for the Finnish-American Mining Company from Minnesota, dated 1909, a Naturalization Service Declaration of Intent dated 1913, and a United Mine Workers of America transfer card from 1908.
This collection contains a great deal of research material collected by Dee Taylor during his time as a professor and chair of the Department of Anthropology at the University of Montana-Missoula. Much of the research is archaeological surveys, assessments, and papers on sites in and around Montana, mostly from the 1970s and 1980s. Many of the items relate to his position with the State Historic Preservation Office including contracts for his services and projects he did for the Office. There are also articles on anthropological topics and material from anthropology courses he taught including bibliographies, exams, and lecture outlines. Some photographic material from surveys and assessments are present, as well as field notes. He also retained student papers and papers by his colleagues. There is also correspondence regarding different projects and letters from individuals asking for help identifying possible significant archaeological sites and some student papers and lecture notes.
This collection contains 86 glass plate negatives. The collection was apparently left by Fred Meyer with J. L. Sherburne or at the Sherburne Mercantile in Browning, Montana, possibly in 1908-1909 (though some images have later dates written on their envelopes). Although the collection is attributed to Fred Meyer, it is evident that some of the plates are copies of other photographs, and it is probable that some images were taken by other photographers. A small number of images have identification or dates written on the original negative sleeve, including identification of the subjects as Crow or Blackfoot, but it is not known who identified the images; the donor of the collection indicates the identifications may be inaccurate.
Images 894.001 through 894.028 are 5x7 plates. Images 894.029 through 894.045 are 8x10 negatives. Images 894.046 through 894.086 are smaller (usually 4x5) and many of these are or appear to be copies.
The collection of the corporate records of the Blackfoot Development Corporation includes the official seal, articles of incorporation, minutes and by-laws, blank stock certificates, and a blank stock transfer ledger.
The ledger contains forty-seven pages of intermittent entries from 1890-1891. The ledger also contains homework and scribblings from Howard Cornish, of Missoula, Montana, and one entry for a laundry bill.
This collection primarily consists of correspondence from author Dorothy M. Johnson to Catherine Burnham from 1956 to 1977. It also includes newspaper clippings, two poems, and a travel visa.
This series primarily consists of correspondence from Dorothy Johnson. Folders 1-4 are a chronological series of correspondence from Dorothy Johnson to Kay Burnham. Folder 5 consists of undated correspondence. Folder 6 consists of correspondence from third parties. Notable items in this series include Dorothy Johnson's recounting of: a story of a human skull which was said to have been given to the Knights Templar and used by them in ceremony; her interaction with Hollywood figures including Gary Cooper; her adoption by the Blackfoot Tribe; and the death of her mother.
This series consists of several newspaper clippings primarily pertaining to Dorothy Johnson.
This series consists of two poems, one item entitled The Lucky Lady, and an article entitled "Montana," written by Dorothy Johnson for the Encyclopedia Britannica and dated 1974.
This series contains Catherine Burnham's 1960 Mexican visa.
This collection contains items that pertain to Walter Tuchscherer's life, with documents dating from 1905-1978. The collection contains memorabilia from Walter's college years at Gonzaga College, World War I memorabilia from Siberia, and writings by Walter and correspondence to and from Walter. There are clippings from World War I, clippings about his wedding, his involvement with the B.P.O.E., the Knights of Columbus, the Boy Scouts, and the Rotary Club. This collection also contains artifacts and photographs. The artifacts are personal items of Walter's from college, World War I, and the Boy Scouts. The photographs include pictures from World War I - personal photos and souvenir photos, and a photograph of the graduating class from the 1915 Hantke's Brewer's School in Milwaukee.
There are three letters in this series. There is a letter from Walter to his parents while at Gonzaga College, a letter from his mother while he was at war, and a letter to Walter from Father Patrick J. O'Rielly.
This series has three writings by Walter. One is a paper titled A Defense of the South and Something about Robert E. Lee that is dated March 2, 1910. The other two writings are in speech form: one titled College Ideals and the other is about the culture of brewing and breweries; both are undated.
This series contains memorabilia from Walter's service in World War I. Items include pamphlets distributed to the soldiers, personal notes in notebooks about war tactics, clippings about World War I, and postcards.
The clippings in this series contain clippings about the wedding of the Tuchscherer's, and about Walter's involvement in the B.P.O.E., Knights of Columbus, the Anaconda Boy Scouts, and the Rotary Club. There is also an excerpt from A History of Montana pertaining to Henry Mueller, Walter's uncle, who was a former Mayor of Butte, and owner of five breweries, including the Anaconda Brewery and Centennial Brewery in Butte.
This series includes a program of Anaconda High School's 1907 commencement ceremony and Walter's diploma. There are also Gonzaga College programs and catalogs. The Gonzaga catalog's and programs are from oratorical contests and a catalog of officers and students from the year 1908-1909.
This series includes personal items of Walter Tuchscherer that he collected while at Gonzaga College and serving in the Army during World War I. Items include his junior and senior class pins, his 1909 oratorial pin, and a boy scout arm band. His military artifacts include a sewing kit, swagger stick, Russian coin bracelet, souvenir box, a coconut from Hawaii, two cloth bags, and a two-liter stein.
A majority of the photographs from this series are photos from Walter's World War I service. Other photographs include those from his wedding and his 1915 graduating class from the Hantke's Brewer's School in Milwaukee.
This collection consists of two pages of typed reminiscences, entitled "follow up to History of the Lincoln Backcountry Controversy by D. R. Randall," documenting Jerry Stern's time as ranger for the Lincoln Ranger District in Montana in the mid 1960s. A third page is titled "Other comments and Lincoln Ranger District." Topics addressed in the documents include Stern's interactions with Cecil Garland of the Lincoln Backcountry Protective Association, his impression of the Lincoln-Scapegoat area as a timber resource, his memories of working with young adults on the trail crew and with "pressure" groups.
This collection is comprised of correspondence and research notes for Robert Fletcher's work on the history of the cattle industry in Montana. The correspondence, with various officials from the USDA, deals mainly with the publication of his books and articles on Montana. The bulk of the collection, however, consists of the extensive research notes that Fletcher compiled while working on "The Organization of the Range Cattle Business in Eastern Montana," and "That Hard Winter in Montana, 1886-1887," which were both published in the early 1930s. The majority of this research was conducted with records from the Montana Stockgrower's Association and the newspaper files at the Montana State Historical Society. Well-organized and thorough, Fletcher's notes cover a wide range of issues involved with the establishment of the cattle and sheep industry in Montana. The collection also contains copies of one of Fletcher's original manuscripts, as well as copies of a few articles by other historians of the High Plains.
This series is comprised of correspondence related to the publication of Fletcher's work on the Montana cattle industry. Fletcher corresponded with M.L. Wilson, the head of the University of Montana Agricultural Experiment Station in Bozeman, Everett Edwards, an Associate Agricultural Economist from the USDA, and Ray Mattison, historian for the National Park Service.
This series consists of copies of Robert Fletcher's manuscript of "The Organization of the Range Cattle Business in Eastern Montana." The first folder contains the original typed copy, the second holds a photocopy of the original.
This series is comprised of research notes on a broad range of issues related to the history of the cattle and sheep industries in Montana. Most of the material was collected from the records of the Montana Stockgrower's Association or the newspaper files at the Montana State Historical Society. Among other things, these notes cover issues such as early settlement of Montana by cattlemen, illegal fencing of lands, interactions with Indian inhabitants, early transportation of cattle by steamship and train, the depredation of cattle by wolves, biographical sketches of early cattlemen, the establishment of Indian reservations in Montana, leasing of Indian lands to cattlemen, movement of cattle to Montana from other areas in the West, and detailed lists of ranchers and brands. The majority of these notes are divided by year and complied from articles from Montana newspapers such as the Daily Yellowstone Journal and the Daily River Press. Some notes are also from books and government documents.
The collection contains biographical materials, correspondence, subject files, speeches and writings, printed materials, materials of the Logan's ranch in St. Ignatius, and photographs. It provides extensive documentation of Logan's career as an educator in rural Montana schools and in the well-known progressive Skokie School of Winnetka, Illinois. It also documents his lifelong and in-depth interests in progressive education, character and religious education, right-wing extremism and its relationship to academic freedom in both K-12 schools and universities, and taxation and its relationship to education funding. His autobiography, begun by him and completed by his wife, Frances, documents his career and beliefs as an agitator for educational and social change. There are materials on the Logan's St. Ignatius, Montana, ranch. Family and professional photographs document his ancestors in North Carolina, educational experiences, and schools in which he worked.
This series contains biographical information about S. Rae Logan and detailed genealogical information about his ancestors. There are notes on family photographs now located in Series VI.
This series contains Logan's personal and professional correspondence. It mostly includes incoming correspondence, but there are carbon copies of Logan's outgoing letters in many cases as well. The series is arranged chronologically. The bulk of the series focuses on Logan's education-related activities in Montana and Illinois, including the formation and maintenance of professional organizations and necessary exchanges with government officials to conduct business. For instance, he wrote the Missoula County Sheriff about illegal gambling in Arlee, Montana, that affected are schoolchildren. There are many long letters from editorial writer Quincy Sharpe Mills and from Carleton W. Washburne, a fellow educator and military man during World War II; he apparently carried out a long personal correspondence with both. There are many exchanges with politicians on both educational and other matters, including Joseph Dixon (on Roosevelt's Bull Moose campaign) Jeannette Rankin, Thomas J. Walsh, John M. Evans, and Mike Mansfield. He exchanged many letters with University of Montana--Missoula and Montana State University (Bozeman) faculty, and had a strong interest in the Louis Levine case at the University of Montana. He also continued his contact with the president and faculty at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. The correspondence documents his active interests in religious and patriotic education, the cooperative movement, and democracy in schools. Post-retirement letters document his interest in promoting a Columbia Valley Authority (to be modeled on the Tennessee Valley Authority) that include more political correspondence;' he was also interested in water and irrigation issues on the Flathead. Some letters are also addressed to his wife, Frances, but the series does not include any replies from her.
This series contains materials collected by Logan for his educational and community activities. Most materials document his time at Skokie School, and include newsletters and other communications with faculty, parents, and students; materials from holidays and graduation; materials used to accompany slide lectures he did about the school; and materials from the student council and other leadership groups within the school. Materials in this series also document his deep and lifelong interest in right-wing extremism and its effect on education and academic freedom in Montana. There are many materials collected from the John Birch Society and similar groups, especially those who had active groups in Montana and Lake County. There are also a few materials related to taxation and its effect on educational opportunities in Montana.
This series contains Logan's published articles, speeches, and his autobiography (posthumously completed by Frances Logan), These Things Should Be. Published articles appeared in a variety of education publications and appear here in their published form. Speeches, almost all given in education settings, also include a talk given at a memorial service. The bulk of the series is the typed manuscript and one copy of These Things Should Be, which details his life and career and has an introduction and commentary added by Frances Logan.
This series contains a variety of materials that document S. Rae Logan's career and interests. They include articles about him and Winnetka Schools by others, clippings on topics of interest to him, awards and certificates, and a two-volume scrapbook of mixed materials assembled for his sixtieth birthday in 1945.
"Compiled by his fellow-teachers on the occasion of his sixtieth birthday"
"Compiled by his fellow-teachers on the occasion of his sixtieth birthday"
This series contains materials about the Logan ranch in St. Ignatius, Montana. It includes material on agricultural practices, buildings, cattle crops, and well drilling, but mostly concerns the leases and activities of tenants that rented the ranch while the Logans lived in Illinois.
This series contains primarily Logan family photographs and images of S. Rae Logan. They are mostly well-identified and include his ancestors, parents, siblings, early Montana and North Carolina scenes, his college days in Chapel Hill, the St. Ignatius, Montana, ranch and surrounding areas, District #28 and Winnetka Schools scenes, and images from Hardin, Montana.
S. R. Logan second from right, front row. File also contains North Carolina currency from Civil War.
This collection includes transcribed letters that date from Sept. 21, 1856 to Dec. 13, 1914. Most of the correspondence takes place amongst Roy Cobban and his family. The largest part of the collection is a group of letters beginning in December 1885 detailing a developing relationship between Roy Cobban and Alice Hardy. Roy Cobban wrote a series of letters to his mother that served as a diary of his journey to Western Montana from Wisconsin and also detailed his business ventures until 1886. There are several replies from his mother. Miscellaneous letters include ones written by William S. Cobban to his brother John and his brother Alexander, an unsigned letter written to an unidentified wife, a letter recommending Robert Cobban for employment, and a letter written in 1914 addressed to parents from Lulu.
The collection contains the financial and legal records of the Northwestern Live Stock Company. There are a complete set of corporate minutes from 1901 to 1941, that document board of director's meetings, stock issuance, capitalization, and reorganizations. Interspersed with other financial records are immunization records, herd counts, and livestock sales. Many of the legal records concern land leases, purchases, transfers, and negotiation of grazing permits with the U.S. Forest Service. The earliest land records appear in abstracts of title attached to later documents.
This collection contains correspondence relating to the creation and administration of the Historical Society of Western Montana as well as meeting minutes and publications from other organizations on starting and operating local historical societies from 1954 to 1955.
Letter from Forest Service Chief H.S. Graves, to Elers Koch and the Region One forest officers, November 7, 1910; letter from H.P. Barringer to Henry J. Claffey, November 8, 1910; and H.P. Barringer's report on the 1910 Grave Creek/Trout Creek Fire, November 8, 1910.
This collection represents a large portion of the academic research and writing career of Fred W. Voget from his undergraduate years in the 1930s to a few years before his death in 1997. While the bulk of his research was focused on the Crow Tribe, the collection also includes secondary source research on numerous other North American tribes and primary source research on the Iroquois, Shoshoni, and Blackfeet Indians. Research specific to the Crow Tribe includes bibliographies, annotated photocopies of papers, book chapters, and articles, interviews spanning half of century from 1939 to 1993, and photographs from 1939 to 1987
This series includes notes and readings on anthropology theory and practice, bibliographies of anthropology readings, and a small amount of anthropology research notes. Additionally, the series has reading notes and bibliographies on a number of Native American tribes. The arbitrary arrangement begins with general anthropology and moves into broad Native American topics.
This series includes bibliographies, research notes on readings, annotated and clean copies of materials, newspaper articles, contact information, and interview notes. The bulk of the series is Crow Indian research, but material such as interviews with Shoshoni tribe members have been included to duplicate Voget's synthesis of this research in his book The Shoshoni-Crow Sun Dance. While the broad order of this series is arbitrary, Voget's original card file order has been maintained. Cards in "to be filed" groups were filed according to established categories and notes not on cards have been inserted into separate folders according to those same categories or topics. Groupings of interviews have been maintained as much as possible.
This series includes Voget's handwritten field research notebooks on the Shoshoni, the Iroquois, the Blackfeet, and the Crow. Many parts of the notebooks are written in shorthand. The Iroquois and Blackfeet notebooks were transcribed in 2003 and 2004.
This series includes a small amount of language research notes from secondary sources, but the bulk of the series consists of handwritten and typed cards with a word or phrase in English and the corresponding Crow word or phrase with pronunciation markings.
This series includes some of Voget's undergraduate papers, working drafts of articles and book chapters, and copies of published articles. The drafts preceded published works and probably a planned history of the Crow Indians that was not published at the time of processing.
This series includes Voget's photos, slides, and some negatives taken throughout his research. The bulk of the photos chronicle Crow activities such as the sun dance and arrow throw, feasts, and giveaways. A smaller number of photos are of specific individuals significant to Crow history and/or Voget's research. Another small group of photos pertain to Native American artifacts, the Shoshoni sun dance, and to Mohawk and other Six Nations groups. Most of the photos are very usable with the exception of photos 25/75 through 25/89, which are out of focus. Original photo captions and photo groupings were maintained where they existed. Otherwise, the photos in this series are arranged in rough thematic and chronological order. The slides are grouped at the end of this series.
In 2012, additional or corrected information for some photographs and context about places and events was provided by Aaron Brien, a member of the Apsaalooke Nation, in consultation with other members of the Nation. This information was added with the preface [From Aaron Brien]. When a date was corrected, the correct date was placed in the date field.
Digital copies of the materials in Box 20/Folder 30 through Box 26 are available online at https://umt.box.com/v/Mss318FredWVogetPapers. These digital copies were created in 2009 and are meant for reference only.
The collection contains the company's governing documents, financial records, correspondence, legal documents and court papers, reports, clippings, publicity and printed materials, and photographs.
This series contains documentation on the governance and history of the company. It includes corporate histories written within and without the company, founding documents (articles of incorporation, resolutions), and some minutes of Board of Directors meetings, mostly from the earliest years of the company.
This series contains incoming and outgoing correspondence from the company.
This series contains the company's financial records, including those related to taxes, stockholders, unemployment compensation, operating statements, general ledgers, check stubs, ledgers, and journals. There are also some of Thomas Sidwell's personal financial materials.
This series contains court papers related to a 1956-1960 case, Gadsden vs. New Mine Sapphire Syndicate. At issue were Gadsden's assets after her husband, Charles T. Gadsden (a New Sapphire manager of many years) died in 1954.
This series contains legal documents, including deeds, patents, and materials related to the company's mining claims.
This series consists of one folder of reports produced or commissioned by the New Mine Sapphire Syndicate. Most relate to mining claims.
This series consists of two folders of maps and blueprints related to the operations of the New Mine Sapphire Syndicate. Some relate to mining claims, and others are unidentified.
This series contains newspaper and magazine clippings, mostly from Montana publications, about the Yogo sapphires.
This series contains printed and other publicity materials produced by and for the company.
This series contains photographs of the New Mine Sapphire Syndicate operation in Utica, Montana. Most were taken around 1924-1925, and show the buildings, mechanicals, and other aspects of the mine site and mining equipment. Several images show damage after floods.
This collection contains information on Barbara Evans’ twenty-eight year political career as a Missoula County Commissioner in Missoula, Montana. The collection contains newspaper clippings, correspondence, campaign and election materials, photographs, awards, press releases, scrapbooks, and posters that convey political happenings both directly and indirectly related to Evans’ political career. The bulk of the material is newspaper clippings. The collection highlights some of Evans political achievements including her work on the Reserve Street expansion, her efforts to remove the Milltown Dam, involvement in numerous housing, industrial, and infrastructure developments, as well as some of her political controversies that included her clash with democratic commissioners Bob Palmer and Germaine Conrad.
This series consists of newspaper clippings, correspondence, campaign and election materials, photographs, awards, press releases, and posters.
This series consists of scrapbooked news clippings, correspondence, campaign and election materials, photographs, press releases, speeches, and awards related to Evans career and Missoula County politics during her time as a county commissioner. The scrapbooks contain both integrated and loose materials. All scrapbooks contain undated material.
This collection contains correspondence to Whicker from magazine editors regarding the printing of original works by Whicker. These include letters from Doubleday, Fiction Parade, Story, and the Atlantic Monthly. The letters also track Whicker's many residences in the Northwest from Marshfield, Oregon to Guemes Island, Washington. One of the works referenced in the correspondence is an unpublished novel titled Cardiac Island. Also included in the collection are copies of works mentioned in the correspondence. Specifically, these include a copy of an essay titled "The Spirit of the Game," printed in Scribner's Magazine in 1929 and two stories. One story is "All-American," reprinted in Fiction Parade in 1936, and the other is "Voyageur," printed in Story in 1935.
This collection includes photocopies of letters written by Alicia Conrad to George Campbell prior to their marriage in February 1928. At the time of the first letter Alicia Conrad was thirty-four years old, from a well-respected Montana family, and a divorcee with a school-age daughter. The tone of her early letters is playful and flirtatious. In a later letter she mentions the stress of her divorce and later still her concern about Campbell's father's opinion of her. According to one letter, even Timmie posed a problem for the couple's happiness as the child misbehaved around Campbell. Still, Conrad expresses great happiness at the developing relationship.
This collection details the initial steps taken by the Rexford Townsite Company to set up the original townsite of Rexford, Montana, as well as a few records of later town activities. The collection includes limited general correspondence, legal documents such as articles of incorporation and deeds and lot contracts, townsite sales ledger, accounting records of both receipts and expenses. Most material is from 1903 when the townsite was actually set up, although miscellaneous details dragged on into 1907. Major exceptions include the Rexford Athletic Association Book from 1912 and a precinct register from 1911-1912.
This Series includes the Rexford Townsite Company general correspondence (limited), articles of incorporation, deeds and lot contracts for various sites in Rexford, a rough pencil drawing of street layout, receipts, invoices, canceled checks, a cashbook, a ledger, townsite sales ledger, and a stock ledger.
This Series includes a Rexford Athletic Association book which holds brief minutes for two meetings in April, 1912, and nine receipts for bills paid in 1912. This Series also includes the 1911-1912 precinct record book for Rexford as the 9th precinct of Lincoln County.
This record group contains correspondence, budget records, general store records, scrapbooks, miscellaneous materials, general ASUM meeting minutes, Central Board Meeting Minutes and other records generated from 1906-2010.
The Associated Student’s Store was started in 1922 by two students. The first store was a table by the psychology building (then the Law Building). The original stock consisted of pens, pencils, and candy. The store then grew and moved into the “Shack” behind Main Hall, where the continued to sell supplies, candy, and a small concessions area with sandwiches. With the student population continuing to grow, the Associated Student’s store soon outgrew their space and moved into the basement of the present day Fine Arts building in 1937. The store was disincorporated from the university in the early 1950s, but reincorporated when University of Montana President McFarland left office. The store moved into the second floor of the Lodge (now the Emma Lommasson Center) in 1954, then into the new base of operations in the University Center when the building was constructed in 1969.
This collection consists of David Bentzin’s copies of reports, files, and documents related to Docket 279-D of the Indian Claims Commission case of the Blackfeet Tribe of Montana vs. The United States of America in the 1970s. Bentzin acted as an expert witness for the Blackfeet Tribe in his capacity as a petroleum exploration geologist. Researchers will find Bentzin’s annotations on a few reports.
This collection contains financial, organizational, correspondence, promotional, and reference materials generated by the First National Bank of Missoula and a small sample of financial records from the Missoula Trust and Savings Bank. Collection materials significantly document Missoula's early economic history, the town's foundational business relationships, the ebb and flow of western Montana economic development from the late nineteenth century through the early twentieth century, the impacts of national procedural/regulatory changes upon rural banks, and daily operations at the Missoula institution.
This series contains outgoing and incoming correspondence regarding First National Bank operations. Correspondence sequences are relatively complete from 1873 to 1900; however, significant gaps exist after 1900 and the sequence ends in 1921. This series also includes one file of correspondence with K. Ross Toole, dated 1965. This file documents K. Ross Toole's efforts to secure the collection for the Archives, an instructional essay written by Toole regarding archival processing in Montana, and transcriptions of letters from the S.T. Hauser collection at the Montana State Historical Society he deemed relevant to the First National Bank collection.
This series contains three documents relating to the incorporation of the First National Bank. Included is a copy of the 1866 Articles of Incorporation for the First National Bank of Helena, Montana (used as a template for the Missoula National Bank's articles of incorporation), a copy of the 1873 Articles of Incorporation for the Missoula National Bank, and a 1913 amendment to the First Nationa Montana Bank of Missoula's Articles of Incorporation. These materials document the early organization of one of western Montana's first corporate ventures.
This series contains financial records from the First National Bank, primarily bound ledgers. Materials include general operating ledgers, individual account records, daily balance logs, regulatory reports of assets and liabilities, cash and credit transaction documents, and client signature books. Federal records include reports to and notices from the U.S. Treasury Department. Materials in this series present significant documentation of Missoula's early economic history, the town's foundational business relationships, the ebb and flow of western Montana economic development from the late nineteenth century through the early twentieth century, the impacts of national procedural/regulatory changes upon rural banks, and daily operations at the Missoula institution.
This series contains three newspaper scrapbooks detailing developments within the First National Bank from 1903-1939, samples of internal forms, and two examples of Bank promotional materials. The items in this series provide broad insights into First National Bank operations and public relations.
This series contains financial records from the Missoula Trust and Savings Bank. The exact relationship between Missoula Trust and Savings Bank and the First National Bank is not established by collection materials.
This collection contains general correspondence, financial records, legal documents, clippings, and miscellany. Included are personal letters, 1893-1972; records of household finances, 1946-1957; income tax forms, 1936-1972; certificates, 1887-1935; memorial records, 1966-1972; and newspaper clippings. Two letters to the MacIvors dated Jan. 21, 1922 and February 8, 1922, give details of an automobile trip from Butte, Montana to Portland, Oregon. Two folders of previously unincorporated photographs were added into the collection in 2006.
This series includes early personal correspondence to Nell and her sister, Eliza, from both their brother, Asa Crockett, and father, Daniel W. Crockett. There is later personal correspondence between Nell and Donald MacIvor. A few letters concern Mr. MacIvor's attempt to get a temporary release from the railroad in 1918 in order to gain an officer's commission in the army. Instead of gaining an officer's commission, Mr. MacIvor became chairman of the United War Campaign which raised funds for the war effort. Folder 2 contains a practice exam given to immigrants who desired United States citizenship. This folder also includes two letters describing an automobile trip from Butte, Montana to Portland, Oregon in 1921. Folder 3 contains a description of a trip to Jerusalem from Beirut in 1951 and other correspondence to the MacIvors describing life in the Middle East in the 1950s.
This series contains records of the MacIvor's household finances while living in Missoula from 1944-1957. Examples of expenses included furnace oil, electric lights, and rent. A primary source of income was Mr. MacIvor's railroad pension. The second folder contains the MacIvor's state and federal income tax forms from 1936-1972.
This series contains Nell's birth certificate, high school diploma, and a Diploma of Progress from the Methodist Episcopal Church. It also includes Donald's Military Registration Certificate, Notice of Military Classification, and membership cards for the Liberty Loan Committee.
This series primarily includes newspaper clippings about Judge Asa James Crockett, who was related to Nell.
This series contains a memorial book for Judge Asa James Crockett who died in 1966. This book includes a brief family history. There is also a memorial for Nell MacIvor, who died in 1972. There is an address book and two valentines. The valentines were sent to Nell from Donald dated circa 1907.
Photographs include formal portraits and snapshots of people and scenes, including images from the Bearmouth, Montana, and Hopewell, Nova Scotia.
This is a collection of newsletters, handbooks, and pamphlets. It includes copies of the annual MIEA handbook, which was prepared jointly by the University of Montana School of Journalism and MIEA and served as a directory of publications and publication advisors at Montana high schools. The collection also contains copies of the MIEA newsletter, The Editor, from 1957 to 1975 which was published several times during the school year. The MIEA advisor, often a faculty member of the Journalism School, served as editor of the newsletter.
This collection is divided into four series.
Series I: Correspondence (1919-1985) The bulk of the correspondence is letters to Clarice Cushman from her husband, William Cushman, when he was away from home in the U.S. Navy during WWII, in Liberia for four years, in the Warm Springs mental health facility in Montana, and in the Veterans Hospital in Sheridan, Wyoming. The letters chronicle the family’s daily lives, the centrality of religious beliefs, marital discord, and four decades of Clarice Cushman’s attempts to find medical and education assistance for their son, Roger Cushman, who had severe disabilities. The correspondence also includes letters from relatives, friends and institutions, letters received by William Cushman, and letters received by Roger Cushman.
Series II: Diaries and Scrapbooks (1920-1971) includes Clarice Cushman’s diaries, that begin a few years before her marriage to William Cushman in 1935 and end during WWII. Her sometimes daily brief entries reveal her daily activities, social contacts, and later interactions with her husband. The more sporadic entries in William Cushman’s diaries describe his work and include one lengthier examination of his feelings about his marriage and his wife while they are apart. Clarice Cushman’s scrapbook (1920-1925) contains photos and memorabilia of her school years beginning in high school and ending when she is awarded a teaching certificate. The other two scrapbooks of local music and school events may have been done as an exercise with the Cushman’s son, Roger.
Series III: Financial Records (1928-1968) consists of a few scattered bank records and some daily and weekly income and expenditure lists.
Series IV: Miscellaneous (1918-1974) consists of memorabilia from high school, weddings, and births as well as various types of personal identification, a genealogy, church programs, and religious tracts. The few identified photos are of the Cushmans around the late 1930s.
The collection consists of Garlington's papers from the 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention. It contains a daily journal kept by Garlington, his campaign expenditures and some speeches, legal material dealing with the election recount, newspaper articles on the Convention and Missoula delegates, a copy of the Montana revised codes, and correspondence between Garlington and others. Publications in the collection concern the drafting of state constitutions. A voter's guide has short biographies of all Convention delegates.
From the Convention itself are draft proposals and letters of transmittal from committees on the executive, education, natural resource and agriculture, judicial committees, and legislative committees. Also contained in the collection are various member proposals, educational material sponsored by the Society of American Foresters and Office of Public Instruction, a resolution calling for submittal of the proposed constitution to the voters, and highlights of the proposed constitution.
This series contains the journal that Garlington kept throughout the Convention, and consists mainly of his notes on each day's events. It includes many copies of minutes, proposals, and other inserts.
This series contains Garlington's correspondence related to the Convention. It contains letters congratulating him on his election, requests to focus on particular issues, and other matters.
This series contains records of Garlington's election, including campaign materials, speeches, the recount challenge, and the financial records from the campaign.
This series contains materials from the Convention, including the activities of committees. It also contains Garlington's appointment certificate and materials about the Convention delegates.
This series contains clippings from Montana newspapers about the Convention and its activities.
This collection is an original charter from the National Farmers' Alliance authorizing the formation of the Carlton Farmers’ Alliance No.6, in Stevensville, Montana, on December 17, 1890.
The Boone and Crockett Club Records have been divided into six Series, most of which have been further subdivided. The largest series in this collection is Series I: Administration, which contains early administrative correspondence and Executive Committee minutes, almost an entire run of the minutes of the Club’s annual meetings which began in 1893, and an almost complete run of Officer, Committee, and Membership booklets which were produced by the Club each year.
This collection also includes materials documenting the Club’s involvement in the big game conservation history of North America including general correspondence, Game Preservation Committee and Conservation Committee meeting minutes and correspondence, and materials documenting the Boone and Crockett Club’s Conservation Grants Program. The collection also contains materials that relate to the Boone and Crockett Club’s big game records keeping activities. These materials include documents pertaining to North American Big Game Records Competitions and Awards Programs, Records of North American Big Game Committee meeting minutes and correspondence files, the materials produced by the administrative staff of the Club’s Big Game Records Division, and materials related to the National Collection of Heads and Horns. Additionally, the records include documents related to the Boone and Crockett Club’s publications including administrative correspondence, planning materials and drafts of the Club’s records books, and drafts and correspondence related to the Club’s Fair Chase magazine.
This series contains materials related to the administrative division of the Boone and Crockett Club, including general correspondence, officer and committee reports, meeting minutes, and materials related to the Club’s annual and other member meetings. The Series has been divided into twelve subseries, most of which have been subdivided further into sub-subseries.
Materials were grouped and interfiled by the processor to reflect the historic and current organization of the Club’s administration. Series are arranged alphabetically.
This subseries contains drafts of the Club’s constitution, by-laws, and incorporation. It documents the evolution of the Club’s by-laws as it contains correspondence regarding amendments and proposed changes dating from 1922 through 1993. Additionally, the series contains drafts and proposed amendments of the Club’s constitution and documents the evolution of the Club’s statement of purpose.
This subseries contains a run of general correspondence that documents the grassroots development of the Club. Although correspondence before 1891 that would document the founding of the Club is missing from the collection, early incoming and outgoing correspondence by founding Club members George Bird Grinnell and Theodore Roosevelt is included in this subseries. Additionally, the subseries contains materials that document the Club’s organizational development. Although this early correspondence does document the Club’s involvement in conservation and publications, specific correspondence regarding these subjects and big game records can be found in Series’ II, III, and IV.
This subseries contains annual reports, ledgers, financial statements and correspondence, budget and tax materials, and materials related to bequests, gifts and legacies left to the Club by members in their wills. Materials such as cancelled checks, invoices and receipts dated post-1950 have been removed from the collection.
This subseries is divided into 3 sub-subseries and contains materials generated by the Executive Officers of the Club as well as other administrative committees. Materials include meeting minutes, correspondence, and reports.
This sub-series contains correspondence and reports created by individual members in their capacity as Executive Officers. The files arrived at the archives in folders which appear to contain materials from a single member and be limited to that member’s work as an officer of the Club. This sub-subseries was created to reflect that organization and original order within folders was maintained. Folders are arranged alphabetically by a member’s last name and present an almost complete picture of the role of Executive officers in the Boone and Crockett Club.
The executive committee of the Boone and Crockett Club was responsible for the general administration of the Club in conjunction with executive officers. This sub-subseries contains an almost entire run of executive committee meeting minutes dating from the Club’s earliest official meeting in 1888 through 2000. The Club would eventually transition from an executive committee to a board of directors, as is the current administrative organization.
This sub-subseries contains administrative committee materials not created by the executive committee. Materials include correspondence, minutes, and reports.
Annual membership gatherings have been a cornerstone of the Club since its inception. The founding members believed that meetings and discussions between members kept the membership active and engaged in conservation issues. This subseries has been divided into three sub-subseries.
This sub-subseries contains the minutes of over 100 years of the Club’s annual meetings, which document membership involvement in the conservation, big game records keeping, and foundation goals of the Club.
This sub-subseries includes planning materials, correspondence, and committee materials related to the Club’s Centennial Celebration which took place in 1988 in Dallas, Texas.
In addition to the Club’s annual meetings, membership was often invited to attend casual meetings throughout the year. In the early years of the Club these meetings included presentations and slideshows of hunts by individual members. Later, the Club moved to have membership officially meet quarterly. This sub-subseries contains meeting minutes, correspondence, and planning materials for these events.
This subseries contains minutes, correspondence, member mailers, membership election ballots, and Membership Committee materials. The subseries includes almost an entire run of Club yearbooks which document Club membership, officers, and committee involvement dating from 1906 to the present. The subseries also documents the process for obtaining regular membership as it includes membership endorsements and sponsorships.
This subseries contains correspondence, appraisals, and inventories pertaining to the Club library that contains materials owned by the Roosevelt family and gifted to the Club by other members.
This subseries includes correspondence, committee materials and minutes, inventories and materials and plans related to the purchase and remodel of the Old Milwaukee Railroad Depot (the Club’s current headquarters in Missoula, Montana). Of possible interest in this series are materials documenting the ownership of Guns gifted to the Club by the Roosevelt family and currently stored at the Sagamore Hill National Historic Site in Oyster Bay, New York.
This subseries contains committee minutes, correspondence, and materials related to various unpublished histories written about the Club. This subseries also contains materials related to the Oral History project started by the Club to document its history through interviews with longtime members.
This subseries includes drafts and copies of dedications, eulogies, speeches, and other statements given by Club members.
This subseries is divided into two sub-subseries and documents the administration of Club offices.
Sub sub-series 1 includes office policies, stationary, general inquiries and other materials related to office administration. Of particular interest in this sub-subseries are folders that document the move of the Club’s headquarters from Pittsburgh to Virginia and from Virginia to Montana.
Beginning in 1981, the Club employed an administrative director and the position changed title to executive director by 1985. This sub-subseries contains correspondence generated by office administrators and executive directors of the Club. Correspondence from professional staff employed in the big game records and publications divisions of the Club is filed in series III and IV respectively.
This subseries contains articles, clippings, correspondence, and additional materials.
Since its inception, the Boone and Crockett Club has been actively involved in conservation issues. This series documents the Club’s conservation activity from its early efforts to preserve game habitat through present-day efforts to fund educational activities. This series has been divided into five subseries and includes committee meeting minutes, correspondence, conservation grant requests and progress reports, and materials related to collaborative efforts and campaigns. Included in this series are materials related to the Club’s concept of Fair Chase.
Materials were grouped and interfiled by the processor to reflect the historic and current organization of the Club’s conservation efforts. Series are arranged alphabetically.
This subseries documents the conservation efforts of the Boone and Crockett Club that took place before the Conservation Committee was formed in 1947. Materials include correspondence, meeting minutes and reports from the Game Preservation Committee (of which George Bird Grinnell was chair) which documents the Club’s involvement in the designation of Glacier and Mt. McKinley National Parks. Also included are materials related to the Club’s conservation positions and policies. Absent are documents related to the Club’s involvement in conservation activities before 1904.
The Conservation Committee of the Boone and Crockett Club was formed in 1947 to address the Club’s conservation policies and actions. Various subcommittees were organized throughout the existence of the Conservation Committee and by 1994 the committee would include three standing sub-committees; one that oversaw the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch, one that worked with the Club’s university professorship programs, and one that oversaw grants-in-aid. By 1998, the Club had reorganized its committees and created the Hunter and Conservation Ethics Committee and the Position Papers Committee. The Ranch subcommittee, Professorship subcommittee and Grants-in-aid subcommittee became full committees. This subseries has been divided into four sub-subseries reflecting the work of the Conservation Committee.
Of particular interest within this sub-subseries is an almost complete run of the Conservation Committee’s correspondence and reports from 1947 through 1991. This sub-subseries also contains materials documenting the Club’s efforts to assist in the support of game refuges including their assistance in the creation of the Key Deer Refuge in Florida. Additionally, this sub-subseries contains a print designed by cartoonist and Club member Jay Norwood “Ding” Darling after the designation of the Key Deer Refuge.
This sub-subseries contains grant proposals, project reports, and grants-in-aid subcommittee meeting minutes. The sub-subseries documents the research the Club supported from 1959 through 2001, including early Isle Royale Wolf Research and Predator-Prey studies. Absent are materials documenting Club grant-in-aid support for projects between the late 1940s and 1959.
This Sub-subseries contains applications, correspondence, proposals and progress reports related to the Club’s Conservation Grants Program. The materials also include correspondence, and review materials created by the Grants-in-Aid subcommittee, a subcommittee of the Conservation Committee. These materials arrived at the archives in 2011, after other Conservation Grant files had been organized. The 2011 addition arrived arranged chronologically by the Boone and Crockett Club. This order was maintained, as was original order within folders.
This sub-subseries documents the development of Boone and Crockett conservation workshops of the 1970s. This sub-subseries demonstrates the Club’s national and international involvement and collaboration in conservation. Of particular interest in this sub-subseries are materials documenting the Club’s involvement in the National Forest System Centennial Celebration and the National Wildlife Conservation Partners Summit that was hosted by the Club.
This sub-subseries contains articles, clippings, correspondence, and additional materials.
The idea of fair chase was first proposed by Theodore Roosevelt and was present in the original Club constitution. It prohibited “killing bear or cougar in traps, crusting moose, elk or deer in deep snow, jacking, or killing them from a boat.” This subseries documents the evolution of the Club’s Fair Chase policy from the early 1960s through the late 1990s.
This subseries also includes materials related to the Club’s positions on a wide variety of topics from gun control, private property rights, and animal rights to the reintroduction of the wolf in Yellowstone National Park. Researchers will find materials documenting the development of these positions as well as responses from Club members to the Club’s position papers.
This subseries contains correspondence, endorsements, and additional materials related to conservation awards given to Club members as well as conservation awards given by the Club.
This subseries contains correspondence, promotional packets, catalogs and mailers related to the Club’s conservation and fundraising campaigns. Included here are materials related to the Club’s conservation stamp print fundraising effort as well as the Blazing New Trails for Conservation campaign.
This series documents the Club’s big game records activities including the evolution of the management of the Big Game Records program as well as materials related to Official Measurers, the Sagamore Hill Medal Program, and the National Collection of Heads and Horns. This series has been divided into five subseries and includes committee meeting minutes, correspondence, Awards Program planning materials, menus, invitations and trophy certificates, as well as correspondence and inventories related to the National Collection of Heads and Horns.
Materials in this series arrived at the archives with no discernable original order and were grouped and interfiled by the processor to reflect historic and current organization of the Club’s big game records keeping activities and management. Series are arranged alphabetically and original order within folders was maintained.
Note: Trophy records and related photographs are maintained at the Boone and Crockett Club headquarters in their Big Game Records Department.
This subseries has been divided into three subseries and documents the administration of the club’s big game records program. Established in 1935, the Records of North American Big Game Committee supervised the Big Game Competitions until the Club began collaborating on Big Game Records with the National Rifle Association in 1973. At that time, the administrative duties fell to the North American Big Game Awards Program, which was housed in the Hunting Activities Department of the National Rifle Association. Currently, Big Game Records are administered in collaboration with the North American Big Game Committee and professional staff.
This subseries is divided into three sub-subseries which reflect the evolution of the management of Big Game Records at the Boone and Crockett Club.
This sub-subseries contains materials related to committee involvement in Big Game Records keeping.
Sub-sub-subseries 1 includes materials produced by the Records of North American big Game Committee. In the years from 1935 through 1973, the Committee managed and oversaw the Club’s big game records-keeping efforts including the North American Big Game Awards Programs. Of particular interest are correspondence to and from Grancel and Betty Fitz that documents changes in the trophy scoring system. Additionally, this sub-sub-subseries contains meeting minutes, correspondence, trophy score sheets and materials related to scoring from 1939 through 1993. Absent are correspondence or meeting minutes created by the Committee before 1944.
Sub-sub-subseries 2 includes materials created by the Friends of North American Big Game Committee, a group that financially supported the North American Big Game Committee through subscriptions from the early 1950s through the early 1960s. Materials include correspondence, big game census figures and subscription information.
Sub-sub-subseries 3 includes materials produced by ad hoc committees related to Big Game Records. This sub-sub-subseries contains correspondence, memorandum and score chart revisions. Of particular interest are materials related to the development of the trophy scoring system by Samuel B. Webb that took place in the late 1940s and early 1950s. It is this scoring system that became the standard for big game trophy measurement after its development and is still in use today.
The North American Big Game Awards Program was a joint venture between the Boone and Crockett Club and the National Rifle Association to administer the Club’s big game records keeping responsibilities and Awards Programs. The North American Big Game Awards Program was in existence from 1973 through late 1980, when the partnership dissolved.
This Sub-subseries contains meeting minutes, correspondence, trophy score sheets and materials related to scoring.
This Sub-subseries contains materials created by the professional staff tasked with administering the Club’s Big Game Records program first in conjunction with the National Rifle Association, and since 1980, with the Boone and Crockett Club’s Records of North American Big Game Committee. Materials include correspondence with trophy owners as well as the Records of North American Big Game Committee and the National Rifle Association.
The materials in this Sub-subseries document the evolution of the Club’s Big Game Records program from being administered solely by members acting as volunteers to that of a partnership between paid staff and Club Committee members.
This Boone and Crockett Club has held North American Big Game Awards Programs since 1947. This Subseries contains materials from the first North American Big Game Competition in 1947 through the 24th North American Big Game Awards held in 2001. Materials include correspondence, awardees lists, banquet invitations, planning and promotional materials, programs, and judging materials.
Created in 1948, the Sagamore Hill Medal is given by the Roosevelt family in honor of Theodore Roosevelt, Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., and Kermit Roosevelt. It is awarded by the Big Game Final Awards Judges panel to an outstanding trophy of distinction. Only one is given at any Big Game Awards Program and one need not be awarded at each Program. This Subseries contains certificates, correspondence and committee materials related to the Medal Program.
Official Measurers of the Boone and Crockett Club are volunteers who are certified by the Club to measure big game trophies. All trophies entered into a Records of North American Big Game Awards Program must be measured by a Boone and Crockett Club Official Measurer. Official Measurers have been utilized by the Boone and Crockett Club since the late 1940s.
This subseries contains correspondence between Official Measurers and Big Game Records professional staff, and the Records of North American Big Game Committee, and Official Measurer manual drafts. Of particular interest are materials related to Official Measurer training workshops developed by William H. Nesbitt, Administrative Director of the North American Big Game Records Program.
The National Collection of Heads and Horns was established by Club member William T. Hornaday and was displayed at the Bronx Zoo in New York City beginning in 1922. The collection is currently held at the Buffalo Bill Historical Center in Cody, Wyoming and is maintained by the Boone and Crockett Club.
This subseries contains correspondence, committee reports, inventories dating from 1906 through 1978, promotional materials, and trophy prints. Of particular interest are the research notes of Lowell E. Baier which provide a history of the National Collection of Heads and Horns.
This series documents the Boone and Crockett Club’s outreach, publicity, promotions and publications. The series has been divided into four subseries and includes correspondence, drafts of publications, materials related to the Club’s Fair Chase magazine, the Club’s newsletter, the Club’s Associate’s Program and licensing and copyright materials.
Materials in this series arrived at the archives with no discernable original order to the files and were grouped and interfiled by the processor to reflect historic and current organization of the Club’s communications division. Series are arranged alphabetically.
An Editorial Committee was formed at the first official meeting of the Boone and Crockett Club in 1888, and the Club has published materials related to big game, conservation, and hunting since 1893. This subseries contains five sub-subseries which include materials related to the Club’s published materials.
This sub-subseries contains materials created by both the Editorial and Historical committees of the Boone and Crockett Club from the late 1950s through the late 1980s, as well as materials created by paid professional staff. Items include committee meeting minutes, correspondence, book orders, inventories, and publication lists. Absent are materials related to items published before 1910.
This sub-subseries is divided into two sub-sub-subseries and contains materials related to the books published by the Boone and Crockett Club.
The first edition of Records of North American Big Game was published by the Club in 1932 in conjunction with the National Collection of Heads and Horns. After 1952 Records books were published every six to seven years. In 1993 it was determined that Records books would be published every six years.
This sub-sub-subseries contains materials from the first edition of Records of North American Big Game, published in 1932, through the tenth edition published in 1993. Materials include correspondence, drafts, signatures, proofs, and big game score charts.
In addition to the Records of North American Big Game books, the Boone and Crockett has published editions on wild sheep, record whitetail and mule deer as well as record elk. The club has also published books on hunting and conservation. This sub-sub-subseries contains correspondence, drafts, proofs, mailers and reviews related to these publications.
Established in 1994, Fair Chase magazine is distributed quarterly to Associate Members of the Club. This sub-subseries contains article drafts for the magazine and correspondence. Absent is a published run of the magazine.
This sub-subseries contains materials related to the Club’s newsletter that is distributed quarterly to regular members of the Club. Materials include correspondence and a run of the newsletters from 1985 through 2001.
This sub-subseries contains correspondence, drafts, and memoranda of miscellaneous volumes published by the Club.
The Boone and Crockett Club Associates Program was originally proposed by William I. Spencer in 1984. The program was developed to involve individuals who were interested in furthering the causes and work of the Club, but didn’t fit the requirements for regular membership as outlined in the Club’s constitution. An Associates Newsletter (which later developed into Fair Chase magazine) was developed to inform Associate Members of Club activities.
This subseries contains correspondence, candidate proposals, membership lists, and drafts and planning materials related to the Associates Newsletter.
This subseries contains correspondence, advertising, publicity and promotional materials and materials related to assignments of copyright. Of particular interest are assignments of copyright dating back to 1904.
This subseries contains correspondence, memoranda, and inquires related to Club films and miscellaneous materials.
In 1985 the Club formed the Boone and Crockett Club Foundation to manage and direct the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch. The Ranch was purchased by the Club to conduct research and educational activities related to big game and conservation. In 2009, all physical assets, including the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch, were transferred from the Foundation to the Club.
This series contains correspondence, the Foundation’s Board of Directors meeting minutes and by-laws, Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch materials, financial and fundraising documents, and materials related to the University of Montana Applied Research Program and Professorship.
Materials in this series arrived at the archives with no discernable original order to the files. Materials were grouped and interfiled by the processor to reflect historic organization of the Club’s Foundation. Series are arranged alphabetically and original order within folders was maintained.
This subseries contains annual meeting materials, correspondence, meeting minutes, and by-laws.
This Subseries contains correspondence arranged in alphabetical order. Of particular interest are folders containing the correspondence from Club member Sherman Gray as these folders demonstrate and document the development of the Foundation.
Purchased in 1985, the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch was purchased to conduct habitat and wildlife research and educational programs. The Ranch was formerly managed by the Boone and Crockett Club Foundation. In 2009, the Ranch, along with all other physical assets, was transferred to the Boone and Crockett Club.
This Subseries contains case statements, correspondence, donation data, member mailers, research reports, and materials created by the Ranch Management Committee.
In 1987 the Club entered into a collaboration with The University of Montana to establish and direct research programs at the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Ranch. In addition, a Boone and Crockett Wildlife Professorship was established at the university.
This subseries contains the agreement with The University of Montana, correspondence, reports, and miscellaneous materials.
This subseries documents the fundraising activities of the Foundation. Included are audit materials, correspondence, donation reports, grant materials, financial documents, and tax materials.
This subseries contains articles, clippings, correspondence, and additional materials.
This series contains audiocassettes and VHS tapes that have not yet been identified.
This series consists of handwritten and typescript material produced by George Bird Grinnell and purchased from a manuscript dealer for the Boone and Crockett Club in 1999. The material is currently retained in its original notebook from the dealer.
The first folder contains correspondence from October 2, 1947 through September 10,1948, much of which was generated by S.R. Logan in his capacity as secretary of the Lake County Telephone Reorganization Committee, a few letters by Ray Sprague, chairman of the same group, and responses from individuals, government agencies, and businesses. The second folder contains items dated from January1946 to February 1948 that include legal documents, research on telephone associations, minutes of meetings, and expense records. The third folder contains polling or survey forms, used in March 1948 to determine the level of support on specific questions such as whether or not greatly expanded telephone service was needed and if telephone lines should be installed on power poles. The survey forms were sent to individuals, groups, and businesses.
This collection contains genealogical information on many branches from Fra Broadwell's family and Edwin Dana's family. There is correspondence from family members to Fra and Edwin about their families histories. Some of the families that have excellent research included are lines from the Anderson, Brewster, Broadwell, Dana, Forester, Maxwell, Page, Paine, Putnam, and Sunderland families, although this does not include all of the lines researched in this collection. There are copied accounts from family members early history, and publications on the Paine and Dana family.
Fra Dana also had publications on Astrology and scientific papers. There are also notes on the Crow language from Father Prando and Fra's own notes. Included also is a brand book of the cattle herd of the Blackfoot, which was purchased by E.L. Dana.
This series includes all of the genealogical information Fra Dana was able to gather on family descent. There are twenty-six families researched in this collection. Included is a direct line decent of Fra Broadwell Dana. There are several marriage certificates. These include the certificate for the marriage of John Sunderland to Elizabeth Page on February 14, 1819, a certificate for Samuel F. Maxwell and Eliza Ann Sunderland on November 8, 1848, a certificate for John W. Broadwell and Jewel H. Maxwell's marriage on May 12, 1873, and the marriage of E.L. Dana to Fra Broadwell on July 1, 1896. Parts of a will for E.L. Dana dated to 1916 are included and a copy of the will for Ann E. Broadwell dated to May 14, 1889, copied November 18, 1912 are included. There are also applications to the Daughters of the American Revolution for Jessie A. Sunderland (1899) and Emma R. Griffin (1909). The Paine and Dana lines also have published material on their families.
This series includes copies of accounts from early family history from various family members, such as H.W. Baldwin (1895-1897), M.A. Whipple (undated, 1935), Abraham Given (1850) and Theophilus and Debora Dana (1862). Poems written by E.L. Dana (published 1947) and Edna Dinwiddie (copy undated) are also included. There are copies of letters (undated, 1914, 1917-1918) from World War I and papers (1915, 1917, 1926) from World War I--correspondents are not identified by last name. There is a certificate from the Daughters of the American Revolution (D.A.R.) and Colonial Dames of America (undated, 1911-1912). Jewel Dinwiddie's Daughters of the American Revolution pin and tartan are in this collection as well. Family newspaper clippings are also included. This series also includes notes on the Crow language from Father Prando and Fra Dana and the brand book for the Blackfoot herd of cattle (undated).
This collection contains materials generated by Harry Fritz's time in the Montana Legislature as both a state representative and a state senator. This includes constituent correspondence, legislative information, notes, clippings, reports, news releases, campaign materials, legislative journals, and election materials from the 1980s and 1990s. The collection also includes office files from Fritz's forty year career with the Department of History at the University of Montana including lecture materials, research notes, articles, speaking engagement notes, calendars, Montana centennial materials, and manuscript reviews. The collection also includes several VHS tapes of presentations and events associated with the Montana State Legislature.
The collection includes a broad range of John Rankin's financial records, 1888-1906; speeches and clippings of Jeannette Rankin from 1916-1941, her 1940 congressional run, and a Report of International Congress of Women, 1919; and Wellington Rankin's 1946 campaign and two Montana Supreme Court cases, 1925 and 1941, in which he served, respectively, as attorney for the plaintiff and attorney for the defendant.
This series includes some financial records from Rankin's most notable endeavors such as the Rankin Block, the Rankin House, and lumber mills in Missoula. Those records pertain to day-to-day operating expenses and income. Two larger ledgers give a broader overview of Rankin's financial matters. Wherever possible the records have been arranged chronologically but gaps do exist.
This series includes the trail transcript for the 1925 Montana Supreme Court personal injury case of plaintiff, Velma H. Riggs, vs. defendant, Lew Webb. Wellington Rankin served as the attorney for plaintiff, Riggs. The series also includes the 1946 Montana Supreme Court decision in the case of A.E. Cramer vs. The Montana State Board of Food Distributors. Wellington Rankin served as an attorney for the defendants. The records of Wellington Rankin's 1948 congressional run include a pamphlet stating his platform and a copy of a speech by Senator Dan W. Maddox endorsing Rankin's candidacy.
This series includes a speech made by Jeannette Rankin on women's suffrage, excerpts from other Rankin speeches regarding Measures Touching the Interest of the People of Montana, a radio address on Women and Democracy by Rankin, and other speeches discussing defense issues. The series also includes additional miscellaneous material relating to Jeannette Rankin's 1940 congressional run. The Report of the International Congress of Women, which took place in Zurich in 1919, lists Jeannette Rankin as a delegate from the United States. This volume has sections in English, French, and German.
The collection consists of the personal records of Harry W. Child and the records of the Wylie Permanent Camping Company, Green Meadows Farm, the Yellowstone Park Association, Yellowstone Park Transportation Company, Yellowstone Park Company, Yellowstone Park Hotel Company, and Yellowstone Park Camping Company. It provides documentation of park visitors, employees, services, and the financial health of these companies.
This series contains Harry W. Child's personal account books. These contain financial records for his numerous real estate holdings in Helena and Toston, Montana; Gallatin Gateway, Montana; Gallatin and Madison Counties, Montana; and La Jolla, California. Many of the Helena records concern construction of a root cellar. Many records deal with Yellowstone Park ventures, including Yellowstone Park Transportation Company and Green Meadow Farm. There are extensive records of the activities of Child & Anceny, which dealt in real estate and cattle ranching in Montana. The volume of deeds and agreements concerns property transfers, many with the Northern Pacific Railroad. There is extensive correspondence with his Bozeman attorney, Hartman & Hartman.
This series contains a voucher register for the Wylie Permanent Camping Company, which consists of records of supplies purchased.
This series consists of a voucher register for Green Meadow Farm, which contains records for supplies purchased.
This series contains a voucher register for the Yellowstone Park Association, with record of supplies purchased.
This series contains the records of the Yellowstone Park Transportation Company, which provided first railroad and stagecoach service in the park, then automobile transport and services for visitors' automobiles. Filling station and garage records are for Mammoth, Old Faithful, Thumb, Lake, Fishing Bridge, and Canyon stations and show sales and the names of the operators. There is also a list of supplies and services available at these garages. The ledgers, journals, and voucher registers show operating expenses for the YPTC.
The last portion of the series consists of records of Park visitors from 1929 to 1951. The 1929-1930 book records visitors who entered the Park at West Yellowstone, Gardiner, and Gallatin Gateway by rail and lists them by state, town, and foreign country. The entrance registers, which run from 1946 to 1951, record visitors who entered the Park at Cody, Wyoming; Gardiner, Montana; Mammoth; Red Lodge, Montana; Gallatin Gateway, Montana; Victor, Wyoming; and West Yellowstone. Visitor information includes names, addresses, and fees paid for transportation or car rental.
This series contains records of the Yellowstone Park Company that do not fall under the purview of one of the subsidiary companies. It contains an employee register, fishing and boating records, a print shop inventory, and general ledgers. The employee registers list all YPC employees for the 1934 and 1935 seasons, their position, and whether they arrived by rail or automobile. There are both handwritten and typed versions of these records. Fishing and boating records show boat rentals and other types of sale at the docks at Lake, Fishing Bridge, Bridge Bay, and West Thumb. The general ledgers document purchases of supplies, construction materials, and telegraph and railway services, and document various other businesses operated in the Park.
This series contains records of the Yellowstone Park Hotel Company, which provided lodging services to Park visitors. The series consists of financial records that record the details of the Company's financial health. There is also a 1931 employee pay book from Mammoth, which lists employees by name and occupation.
This series contains the financial records of the Yellowstone Park Camping Company, which provided campgrounds to Park visitors.
This collection includes financial and legal records detailing the daily operations of a small-scale western Montana lumber mill, with particularly detailed records between 1944 and 1957. Most of the records are handwritten journals or logs recording aspects of mill operations such as log scale measurements submitted to the Montana State Forester for timber sale review, payroll hours and rates, and daily product and administrative transactions. Also included are typed records of quarterly production reports, timber sale agreements, and union relationships. The union contract records include correspondence regarding initial union representation for Morin Lumber Company employees.
This series includes a general equipment inventory, bound log scale books, small bound payroll logs, unbound production reports, small bound transaction journals, an unbound yard ledger, and five large bound ledgers of outgoing lumber sales. All records are handwritten except production reports, timber sale contracts, and union contracts. All bound transaction journals exhibit accounting shorthand practices. Log scale books record timber measurements submitted to the Montana State Forester as part of the timber sale review process. Payroll records detail compensation by individual per pay period, including per diem totals. Production reports detail lumber production totals, equipment purchases, outgoing shipments, existing stock arranged by tree species, and production lost to injury. General Accounts Journals record daily transactions, credits, debts, and deposits. The yard ledger is an alphabetized record of account activities from the Miller Creek mill operation. Cash Books record sales of lumber leaving the processing yard.
This series includes records detailing timber sale agreements and union relationships. All timber contract records detail locations, total board feet, and compensation. Most contracts in this collection were between Morin Lumber Company and the State of Montana. Union contracts materials primarily record personnel allocation agreements but also include official correspondence between employees, union representatives, and mill ownership regarding the initiation of union representation. All records are typed and in good condition.
This collection contains documents that span from McCormick's early days in Montana to after his death and the settling of his estate. Many are legal documents from the firm of Higgins and McCormick, which was in business until his death in 1889. Included in the collection are several receipts, letters, and official documents pertaining to McCormick's estate, which was managed by his wife Kate and son, W. J. McCormick, Jr.
The collection contains general correspondence, financial records, legal documents and maps from 1945 to 1971.
The series consists of reminder letters concerning unpaid bills from other companies, workman's compensation claims, copies of outgoing correspondence and information on timber products.
The series contains check registers, payroll information, assets and liabilities balance sheets, tax returns, and time sheets from Cottrell and Helean Logging Company. Log hauling reports, which contain the car number, number of logs hauled, number of board feet, and totals is in the series. Also in the series is wage schedules that specifies all grades of a certain logging job and the wage scale for that position. A general ledger containing assets and liabilities of the company and two payroll registers, including a saw scale, are in the series.
includes saw scale, 1948
The series consists of two legal documents, a Forest Service equipment rental agreement and a timber agreement with the White Pine Sash Company of Missoula.
The series consists of unit maps that show the certain areas that the company logged. The five maps in the series are of the Hyde, Fish and Granite Creek areas, and two from the Big Blackfoot Milling Company.
The collection contains financial records including volumes for price lists, engraver's records, outside and Butte shipping slips from 1926 to 1966.
The series contains volumes of price list records, engraver's records, outside shipping slips (for items shipped outside Butte), and Butte shipping slips (for items shipped within Butte). The price lists detail the description of the headstone, including the dimensions and the price that was charged to the buyer. The volumes also include the name of the purchaser, the date that the stone was processed and the time spent working on it. The volumes are arranged alphabetically by the company's sizing system. The series also contains the engraver's records which correspond to the records kept in the price list volumes.
The volumes are organized by the job number of the stone. Outside shipping slips are organized by the city in which the completed stone was sent, such as Anaconda, Deer Lodge, Dillon, Helena, Idaho, and other outside states. The records are organized by work number and include the name of the deceased with the birth and death dates, the purchaser of the stone, and the date when the order was paid in full. The shipper's name and address and shipment date, and a detailed description of the stone are also in the outside shipping slips. The Butte shipping slips contain the same information on them as in the outside shipping slips except the name of the cemetery is included. The volumes are arranged by name of cemetery, including Holy Cross, Mountain View, Mountain Moriah, St. Patrick, and UG Weeks.
James H. Morley's daily dairy accounts from 1862-1865 begin with his trip to Montana from St. Louis, Missouri, onboard a steamer up the Missouri River. It continues with his group's two week journey from Fort Benton to their camp and mining site on Gold Creek, between what is now Drummond and Deer Lodge, Montana, with supply loaded wagons. From that point his diary entries describe the day's shaft or sluice mining efforts, reports from group members who had traveled to other possible mining sites, and descriptions of his own travels around Hellgate Canyon and into Rock Creek, then on to Beaverhead, Flint Creek, Wisdom River, the Big Hole prairie, and back up to Deer Lodge Creek. By January 1863 Morley and his team had ranged as far east in Montana as the Gallatin and Three Forks areas. Also in January Morley noted the results of a trial of Plummer, probably the infamous Harry Plummer, one year before that man was hung by vigilantes without a trial. Morley briefly describes his own contact with justice as a juror in a trial of accused murderer Bill Mitchell.
Over the next two years Morley sometimes described the daily drudgery of mining work but also mining claim disputes, planning and charting a plat map for Centreville, wildlife and geological features, scouting for and staking new claims, difficulties of sending and receiving mail, and the mining towns of Bannack and Virginia City, Montana. His daily entries end with his return to St. Louis in August, 1865.
This collection includes a photocopy of Helen Edna Buck's thirty-two page, handwritten letter to Clara Ballard (addressed as Dear Friend) detailing her family's move from Yakima, Washington to Rhodes, Iowa. Buck describes the weather, roads, camp sites and camping conditions, livestock and wildlife encounters, interesting geology, towns and people they encountered. The towns in Montana included Saltese, St. Regis, Huson, Missoula, Butte, Whitehall, Custer, Miles City, Glendive, and Wibaux. Their route included the road called the Camel's Hump. She also writes of going through Yellowstone Park, car trouble, and how she felt about her new home.
John Well-Off-Man's Collection of Photographs contains 109 images of people and events on the Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation. The photographs were taken during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Well-Off-Man collected these images from Paul Mitchell, an elder from Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation, as part of his research into the history of the Rocky Boy Reservation. Well-Off-Man made copy negatives from Mitchell's nitrate negatives.
A portion of the images in this collection have brief descriptions written on them, though it is not clear by whom. Almost all the images are undated and many currently lack identification of the individuals in them. Most are of Cree and Ojibwe (Chippewa) people. While the images in the collection come from several sources, the majority were likely taken by John Gable, the son of William Gable who was the Lutheran Pastor on the Rocky Boy Reservation in the 1920s, 30s, and 40s. As a graduate student at the Philadelphia Seminary in the 1930s, John Gable was also responsible for a number of film productions including "Rocky Boy Mission In Action," a 1935 film about the Lutheran Mission on the Rocky Boy Reservation. While it is unclear whether the photos in this collection are associated with Gable's documentary project, the content of the images suggest that there is a connection between the two. According to Well-Off-Man other images were taken by Florence Bruckner.
This collection contains materials related to the development, operation and dismantling of the Douglas Mine and Concentrator, located in Granite County, Montana, by the Montana Phosphate Products Company and Cominco American, Inc. during the 1960s and early 1970s. The records offers insight into mining philosophies and trends of that time, as well as providing information on the day-to-day operations of a phosphate mine and milling operation in Western Montana.
Series I, Mine and Concentrator Development, contains materials related to the development of the Douglas Operation by the Montana Phosphate Products Company, and later Cominco American, Inc., beginning in 1962 and extending into mid-1960s. Included are cost quotations and advertisements for various mining and milling equipment, engineering drawings, construction specifications, cost projections and other materials. This series gives an overview of state-of-the-art phosphate mining technologies in the 1960s, as well as the amount of financial investment and work necessary to undertake such a mining project.
Series II, Mine and Concentrator Operations, contains daily and monthly reports, maintenance schedules, studies, correspondence, financial calculations, and other miscellaneous materials created by the Montana Phosphate Products Company and Cominco American, Inc. during the operation of the Douglas Mine and Concentrator from 1962-1968. This material provides a look into the day-to-day operations of a phosphate mine and concentrator operating in Western Montana during the 1960s.
Series III, Concentrator Dismantling, contains correspondence and daily reports, as well as other miscellaneous material related to the dismantling of the Douglas Concentrator in 1972. This action was authorized by Cominco American, Inc. and carried out by the Bechtel Corporation. The series is representative of how Cominco American, Inc. was able to salvage much of the equipment at its Douglas Creek location for use in another mining project in Greenland.
Series IV, Maps and Drawings, contains numerous oversized maps and drawings depicting the Douglas Operation and other Montana Phosphate Products Company and Cominco American, Inc. mines in the region, including the Anderson (Warm Springs), Brock, Luke, and Relyea Mines. The materials range in subject from underground mines to dam cross-sections to construction specifications.
The Peggy DeMichele papers contain photos, speeches, and documents of Montana Congressman James O’Connor, with whom DeMichele worked prior to Mike Mansfield, as well as her personal ephemera and photos.
This collection contains letters from customers throughout Montana and nearby states ordering fruit from Theon H. Durnford in Lolo, Montana, 1913-1924, with the bulk from 1918, and Durnford's receipts and statements from Hughes Mercantile of Lolo, Montana, from 1917-1919.The bulk of the letters are orders for Theon H. Dunford’s fruit but a few letters also contain personal, cultural, and social information on topics including the influenza epidemic, the scarcity of workers during the First World War, and oil drilling. The letters also offer information about the varieties of fruit Durnford grew, how these fruits were shipped, how customers chose to use the products, and how a small agricultural business functioned at the time. Durnford shipped his fruit both to individual customers and retail distributors. Many of his customers were in Big Timber, Three Forks, Toston, and Townsend, Montana.
The receipts and invoices from Hughes Mercantile record Durnford's sale of eggs to the store in exchange for everything from laundry to canned peas and chicken feed.
Receipts and statements for items bought and sold at Hughes Mercantile in Lolo, Montana.
The John M. Clifton photograph album contains photos of timber work out of St. Regis, Montana in 1909; the construction and camp sites for building the Big Blackfoot railway branch in Montana in 1910; the Colgate, North Dakota railway branch from 1910-1911; and the Wenatchee, Washington railway branch from 1912-1913. The album also contains a few family photos of John M. Clifton, his wife Nora Toole Clifton, and their baby daughter, Thula Clifton.
This collection contains published books and a small amount of ephemera written by Ben Klassen, founder of the Church of the Creator. Also included are two contextual documents by the Montana Human Rights Network.
The little white book / Ben Klassen -- Racial loyalty -- Facts that the government and the media don't want you to know / Matt Hale -- A real case against Jews (reprint from The Century magazine, January 1928) / Marcus Eli Ravage -- The brutal truth about inflation and financial enslavement : the Federal Reserve Board -- What is hate? -- Creativity : creed and program -- Against the evil tide / Ben Klassen -- Rahowa! : this planet is ours / Ben Klassen -- Building a whiter and brighter world / Ben Klassen -- Nature's eternal religion -- The Klassen letters / Ben Klassen -- The white man's Bible / Ben Klassen -- Trials, tribulations, and triumphs / Ben Klassen -- On the brink of a bloody racial war / Ben Klassen
The collection contains Otto Bessey's correspondence, diplomas, and other personal materials. There are items relating to his career including official reports from organizations he worked for, classroom lectures, professional correspondence, certificates, and research materials. Also included are drafts and notes for articles and speeches by Bessey on various topics. The collection also contains photographs and several artifacts including an award for service from the US Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
This series includes correspondence between Otto Bessey and different individuals and organizations, organized alphabetically by folder title.
This series includes items related to Otto Bessey's personal life and education, it is organized alphabetically by folder title.
This series contains various reports from organizations related to Otto Bessey's work, organized alphabetically by folder title.
This series contains Otto Bessey's research files, organized alphabetically by folder title.
This series contains articles and addresses written by Otto Bessey, organized alphabetically by folder title.
This series contains materials from Otto Bessey's teaching career, organized alphabetically by folder title.
This series contains published articles about Otto Bessey and an article on chemical nomenclature that related to his profession.
This series contains photographs of Otto Bessey and some of his colleagues.
This series contains thermometers, an award for service from the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and various certificates.
The collection contains minutes of meetings, membership information, yearbooks, financial records, photographs, scrapbooks, and materials from projects undertaken by the Eta Chapter of Delta Kappa Gamma Society, including the restoration of the Hellgate Trading Post and the Grant Creek One-Room Schoolhouse now at Fort Missoula. The scrapbooks contain photographs, programs, clippings, and other memorabilia, from 1944 to 1996. The collection contains writings prepared by its members about women in education, the Grant Creek project, the history of public high school education in Missoula, and chapter histories. There are also some copies of the state’s Delta Kappa Gamma Society newsletter,  Alphamusings.
The collection contains a small portion of materials from Alpha Mu and other Montana chapters, including yearbooks and other writings.
This collection contains materials related to the research and writing of Oberdorfer’s book, Senator Mansfield: The Extraordinary Life of a Great American Statesman and Diplomat (Smithsonian Books, 2003), which won the D.B. Hardeman Prize in 2003. The book is a biography of Mike Mansfield, a United States House Representative and Senator from Montana who also served as ambassador to Japan during the Carter and Reagan administrations. The collection provides access to the documents and other materials that Oberdorfer cites in his book, Senator Mansfield. The research materials include photocopies and summaries from books and articles about Mansfield and related historical topics, as well as primary documents gathered from archival repositories like the presidential libraries of John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. The research materials provide glimpses into Mansfield’s personal life and public career through copies of correspondence, photographs, and other materials from the private collections of Mansfield family members.
The collection includes summaries of Oberdorfer’s conversations with Mansfield’s family, colleagues, and friends and some drafts of chapters from Oberdorfer’s book. Manuscript drafts and writings related to the book are filed with the research materials. The collection also contains recorded interviews with Mansfield and Mansfield's colleagues that Oberdorfer conducted as research for the Mansfield biography, as well as non-interview audio recordings related to Oberdorfer's research.
The collection includes summaries of Oberdorfer’s conversations with Mansfield’s family, colleagues, and friends and some drafts of chapters from Oberdorfer’s book. Manuscript drafts and writings related to the book are filed with the research materials.
This series contains oral history interviews Oberdorfer conducted with Mike Mansfield as research for Oberdorfer’s biography on Mansfield.
These audio interviews were assigned an oral history collection name, Don Oberdorfer Interviews with Mike Mansfield Oral History Project and given collection number OH 391, to facilitate discovery and access.
There is no recorded audio OH 391-001 cassette tape. The interview consists of Don Oberdorfer’s notes taken during his first unrecorded meetings with Mansfield about the biography. A full transcript of these notes is available on ScholarWorks.
This series contains oral history interviews Oberdorfer conducted with Mike Mansfield’s friends and colleagues about Mansfield’s personal life and political career as research for Oberdorfer’s biography on Mansfield.
These audio interviews were assigned an oral history collection name, Don Oberdorfer Interviews about Mike Mansfield Oral History Project and given collection number OH 460, to facilitate discovery and access.
This series contains miscellaneous audio recordings related to Oberdorfer’s research for his biography on Mansfield.
The collection contains recordings of seven oral history interviews with Carling Malouf. The interviews were conducted under the direction of University of Montana Professor G. G. Weix by Department of Anthropology graduate students Sharon Small and Betty Matthews in 2004 at Malouf’s home. The interviews were originally recorded on Mini DV, and were then copied to VHS tape.
This collection is primarily materials related to the operation and maintenance of the Missoula Business and Professional Women organization including meeting minutes, correspondence, reports, clippings, financial information, membership lists, photographs, applications, scholarship information, constitutions, yearbooks, and scrapbook pages. There is also material pertaining to the Montana Federation of Business and Professional Women’s Clubs including annual convention programs, emblem ceremony programs, and pamphlets. It also contains programs and reports on the meetings of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs as well as publications and mailings from the organization. There are also materials relating to the International Federation of Business and Professional Women’s Clubs including publications and pamphlets.
These materials document the operating procedures of the Missoula Business and Professional Women and contain materials relating to Montana state conventions and other chapters of the Montana Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs.
These materials document some operations and events of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs and International Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs.
Photographs and negatives relating to the Missoula Business and Professional Women.
Artifacts related to the Missoula Business and Professional Women.
The collection contains a variety of materials collected and produced by Haugland as part of his journalism career, personal writing, and enduring interest in the military. Correspondence from his career was mostly conducted for research purposes and includes exchanges with many military personnel. Writings include manuscripts of articles, including those written for the Associated Press and his novel. There are financial materials related to his many travels for his work, along with his travel documents like passports. There are research materials related to NASA and the space program, as well as K'tut Tantri in Indonesia. There are clippings of many of his articles, some personal materials, and memorabilia. Last, there are photographs of Haugland and that he collected for his work.
The series contains correspondence that Haugland conducted with various people throughout his career with the Associated Press and into his retirement. Haugland conducted correspondence with his research subjects, including the Eagles, an American World War II flying force fighting for Britain before America entered the war, and K'tut Tantri, and Indonesian women who Haugland made the subject for one of his manuscripts. Haugland also corresponded with Great Britain's Prince Philip in his research of the Eagles, who made him an honorary member of their group. Haugland had a great deal of correspondence with book companies who wanted Haugland to write for them. He also corresponded with military personnel, many of whom were personal friends of Haugland's because of his NASA splashdown coverage for the AP.
The series is divided into two subseries: Manuscripts and Datelines. The first portion is manuscripts of articles and his novel manuscripts. The second part of the series is Haugland's datelines that he wrote for the AP. Many articles that Haugland wrote dealt with the avionics industry, including airplanes, military bombers and the NASA space exploration. He also wrote many articles and two books on the experience of the Eagles during WWII. Copies of his manuscripts of Eagle Squadron and The Eagle's War are in the series. Many of his research notes are also included. Another book manuscript, Revolt in Paradise, is in the series. The datelines are mainly written about the avionics industry. Many news stories are about NASA and the different space missions, including the Apollo and Gemini flights. Other news stories on which Haugland reported were events in the Soviet Union, Vietnam, Japan, and the South Pacific.
The series contains general and travel receipts from the many locations in which Haugland traveled to for the Associated Press. Also in the series are his expense accounts and tax information, including tax returns. The series is arranged in two parts. The first part, general financial records, is arranged chronologically.
The series consists mainly of documents from Haugland's years as a war correspondent. They include his license, passports, war correspondent agreement contract, orders, a permit to leave the United States, and an Australian registration. Other documents in the series are agreements with publishing companies for Haugland's manuscripts, such as Harper and Brothers and Spartan Books.
The series contains materials that Haugland used in research for his articles. The majority of research materials are about NASA and the space program. Haugland covered the Apollo missions, Gemini and Voyager. Other topics that Haugland researched were the places he traveled, military, and K'tut Tantri in Indonesia. He also collected numerous materials on the Eagle squadrons, the American pilots who flew for the British during WWII.
This series of articles is divided into two subseries: Vern Haugland and Other Authors. Most of the clippings by Haugland are written on the NASA space program, and center on the Apollo missions, missile testing, and army rocket tests. People that Haugland wrote about were Charles Lindbergh, General Douglas MacArthur, and Admiral Richard Byrd. Other topics that he was interested dealt with aviation, including air travel, airports, and different types of aircrafts. The articles written by other authors that Haugland collected dealt with the NASA space program, missile testing, and satellites. Other topics included moon research, the Eagle Squadron, and the Air Force. Articles written about the Haugland family and Haugland himself are also in the series. Many of these articles are about Haugland's time in New Guinea and the book that Haugland wrote about his experiences, his war years, and copies of his obituaries after his death in 1984.
This series consists of booklets and pamphlets from many of Haugland's memberships, including the Aviation Writers Association and the National Aeronautic Association. His work journals are also included in the series, and many are written in shorthand. Haugland kept travel receipts and memorabilia from the Pacific island and Soviet Union trips that he took while working for the Associated Press. He received many certificates and citations, such as honorary memberships from the many ships that he traveled on while covering the NASA splashdowns and awards from writing associations. Correspondence with his wife, Tess, and his daughters is also in the series. There is also biographical information on Haugland in the series. A WWII based novel is also included within the series. This book deals with the war's 100 most fascinating stories. Haugland's story about his ordeal in New Guinea is included in the book.
This series contains artifacts that Haugland collected during his years with the Associated Press. Many of the artifacts relate to aviation, such as a wing remnant from the New Orleans first round-the-world flight in 1924 and a plaque commemorating the first flight by the Wright brothers in 1903. Other memorabilia centers on the NASA space program, mainly the Apollo missions. Also in the series are artifacts dedicated to Haugland on the numerous awards that he received. He received the Associated Press Medal of Honor, the Associated Press Strebig-Dobben Memorial Award, the Air Force Association Arts and Letter Award. Haugland also received an airplane propeller in 1973 signed by his friends in aviation.
This series consists of photographs of Haugland and his career, and of photographs he collected in the course of his work. The latter mostly relate to the military and aviation.
This series includes twelve aircraft lithographs presented to Haugland as a gift from Northrop Aircraft Inc. at an unknown date.
This photocopied collection is composed of a newspaper clipping dated July 15, 1865, Franklin Miller's diary from January 1-August 5, 1867, and his 1866 identification card at Fort Riley, Kansas.
The newspaper clipping is from a Soldier's Letter, Second Colorado Calvary of Fort Riley, Kansas. It describes Indian attacks, battles, deaths, and other news, military and general.
Franklin Miller's diary begins January 1, 1867, and contains accounts of the weather, the regiment, deaths of men in the company, burials, correspondence with family and friends, company inspections, deserting soldiers, arrival of recruits, and Miller's discharge from Camp Cooke on August 5, 1867. The diary also records the passing of several steamer ships and contains two poems written by Franklin Miller.
This collection contains correspondence, financial, legal, promotional, and organizational records generated by the Collins Land Company as well as government publications regarding federal public lands and business records from three other Collins family enterprises. The Collins Land Company was based in Helena, Montana, and bought and sold public lands. Materials in this collection provide particular insights into the history, procedures, and economy of public land management and sale during the first half of the twentieth century.
This series contains incoming, outgoing, interoffice and general correspondence generated and collected by the Collins Land Company detailing business projects, proposals, and practices spanning the first four decades of company operation. Series materials are almost exclusively exchanges with clients, potential buyers, and Federal land management officials. These records provide insights into the procedures and economy of public land sales during the first half of the 20th Century.
This series contains land scrip case histories collected by the Collins Land Company as documentation for title purchases and transfers. The Collins Land Company created four distinct sequences for these case histories and attached a case number to each file (beginning at zero for each sequence). The original sequences and case numbers have been retained for historical reference; however, records explaining the tracking system rationale and detailing gaps in each sequence no longer existed at the time the collection was accessioned to the archives. These records provide early property definitions and ownership histories for land parcels across the United States, with particular emphasis on Montana and the Pacific Northwest.
This series contains one folder of financial records, 10 bound financial volumes, and one folder of legal documents generated by the Collins Land Company, including two volumes tracking account activity for land scrips allotted to Union Civil War veterans and soldiers who fought in the Spanish-American War. Legal documents include property deeds, prospecting patents, and court transcripts.
This series contains Collins Land Company publications and advertisements as well as an extensive sequence of Federal government publications relating to management and dissolution of public lands. These government publications include Congressional legislation and U.S. Department of the Interior regulations.
This series consists of one bound volume containing the Collins Land Company's corporate bylaws and stockholder meeting minutes.
This series contains four bound volumes of financial journals generated by the Collins Realty Company, a real estate development business headquartered in Helena, Montana.
This series contains a daily transaction ledger generated by the Collins Company, a holding company for Collins family business interests and located in Helena, Montana.
This series consists of one bound volume containing the Beartooth Stock Company's articles of incorporation and stockholder meeting minutes. The company was a livestock raising and agricultural development business headquartered in Helena, Montana.
This collection contains the personal and professional papers of Dr. Jessie Bierman, a pioneer in the field of child and maternal health, from all stages of her life. The collection contents begin with writings related to Bierman’s family history. The collection contains the memoirs of Jessie Bierman’s father, Henry, and her writings about him.
Items from her early days include a poetry scrapbook filled with correspondence and poems, her high school yearbooks, and diploma. Her student days at The University of Montana are represented by a scrapbook and diploma. Materials from her medical career in California include a set of house call diaries, 1931-1935. A scrapbook and related correspondence represent her years with the Montana Department of Health. Her positions in government and with international missions related to maternal and child health are reflected in correspondence and other writings. The collection contains the writings and publications Bierman completed while at the University of California and elsewhere, including the study she prepared regarding the children of Kauai, Hawaii.
The collection contains the numerous honors and awards Bierman received toward the end of her career. It also contains clippings about Bierman and other clippings and publications she collected on child and maternal health issues. The photographs in the collection are from all stages of Bierman’s life. Of particular interest are the family photographs, which include photographs of the Kalispell Meat Market that was owned and operated by Henry Bierman, and photographs of Henry and Alice Bierman.
The collection includes the 119-page manuscript of Violet Dunbar's unpublished book, Homesteaders in Montana.
The collection contains information from 1957-1975. Most of the information was written by or sent to Eugene Pike. There is general information about MEC including correspondence, history, and technical and financial reports. The collection includes numerous training manuals from the Rural Electric Administration. There is information about co-operative utilities in Montana, the Pacific Northwest and the United States. There is detailed information regarding power generation in the northwest including nuclear, hydroelectric and hydrothermal.
Consists of correspondence between the MEC and other electric administration entities, including the Bonneville Power Administration, Rural Electric Administration, and other co-ops.
This series is composed of newspaper and magazine clippings collected by the MEC. Most concern territorial integrity and other matters specific to Montana.
Consists of three certificates presented to the MEC from civic entities in Missoula like the Missoula County Fair Association.
This series contains MEC rate schedules and copies of the company's report, A Look to the Past and a Plan for the Future.
Composed of statements of Eugene Pike, mostly before the Montana state legislature on territorial integrity.
This series represents the MEC's involvement with state and federal legislation governing electric generation and delivery. It includes information on the MEC's lobby for Paradise Dam and numerous folders of materials on territorial integrity.
Materials in this series were produced by the NRECA and include reports and workshop materials.
Consists of training materials made available to co-ops like the MEC.
Consists of reports, policy manuals, newsletter, and records of meetings.
This series contains financial and legal information, numerous publications, reports, and speeches.
These materials are largely reports concerning the construction and feasibility of breeder reactors, but also include some legal agreements.
This series consists of materials from Northwest Intertie, an organization in which the MEC was apparently involved. Contents include records of meetings, articles of incorporation, and reports.
This series contains extensive information on the WPPSS, particularly on its Hanford-area operations in southeastern Washington state and on its dealings with the Bonneville Power Administration. Includes reports, financial information, legal agreements.
This series consists largely of meeting minutes from the PPC, but also includes legal materials and reports.
This series contains legal materials and a report from the Federal Power Commission.
This series contains meeting records, reports, and a speech associated with the NPPA.
This series contains two reports from the MPC, on rates and its annual statistical report.
Consists of the Montana Rural Electric News 1958-1975.
This series contains materials from the Columbia Storage Power Exchange, the Committee for Paradise Dam, the Edison Electric Institute, the Mecklenberg Electric Cooperative, member services, Oregonians for Nuclear Safeguards, the State of Montana, Washington State University, and Westinghouse. The Washington State University materials are concerned with the Power Professorship and with a program for students in which the MEC provided some internship opportunities. There is also a Reports and Rate schedule.
The Missoula Mercantile Company Holiday Party Collection includes fourteen photographs and a program for the variety show entertainment show at the company's holiday party on January 6, 1945.
This collection, the Max S. Baucus Papers, represents the material sum of Max Baucus’s political career, from his work at the Montana Constitutional Convention to his appointment as the United States Ambassador to China. It includes manuscript materials, artifacts and memorabilia, microfilm, audiovisual material, photographs, and electronic records produced throughout Baucus’s time in the Montana House of Representatives, the United States House of Representatives, the Senate, and ambassadorial service. These records document policy and legislation development, constituent services, Baucus’s committee service, political campaigns, his membership in the Democratic Party, and office administration. Particularly well-represented are Senate legislative materials, as well as constituent correspondence from his time in both the House and the Senate.
The collection also includes some material from Baucus’s personal life which provides a small snapshot of his daily and social activities throughout his time in public service. This material primarily takes the form of photographs, ephemera, miscellaneous correspondence and holiday cards, invitations, and notebooks.
Materials in this series provide insight into the personal and family history of Max Baucus. They largely pertain to Baucus’s life outside of politics, though his personal and political lives inevitably overlapped as a career elected official.
This series is divided into two sub-series: Personal and Electronic Files.
This subseries represents the physical portion of this series, and contains invitations and materials related to various social events on Capitol Hill which Baucus attended, including Presidential inaugurations and White House events. It also contains a number of appointment books and wallet diaries that provide a window into Baucus’s personal schedule, in contrast to official scheduling material produced by staffers. A nearly complete run of Baucus family Christmas cards is also included, several of which feature artwork created by Baucus’s second wife, Wanda Minge.
Correspondence found within this series is largely comprised of letters marked ‘Administration-Personal’ by office staff, though there are letters relating to specific incidents in Baucus’s life. The series also includes personal notes and notebooks kept by Baucus throughout his career, containing notes and observations taken during meetings, hearings, and other events, reflections on various topical issues, draft ideas for speeches, and campaign strategies. Many of these are undated. The series likewise contains a number of writings and publications authored by Baucus, including op-eds and two peer-reviewed papers. Also notable is a pocket Constitution given to Baucus by Senator Robert Byrd in 1995, which he carried with him throughout the remainder of his Senate career.
While largely comprised of material focusing on Baucus’s personal life, the series does contain some records relating to his family—chiefly obituaries following the death of Baucus’s stepfather, John Baucus, and correspondence between Jean Baucus and Ruth Chambers. Chambers was the sister of Max Baucus’s biological father, Stephen Enke, and the correspondence took place between Jean Baucus and Chambers following Enke’s death in 1974. The series also contains a Baucus family tree and family recipes.
This subseries contains essays and op-eds authored by Baucus, as well as a 1983 New York City Marathon athlete profile sheet. Files have been renamed for clarity by the processing archivist.
This series contains material relating to Max Baucus’s time in the Montana House of Representatives. It includes press files, bills which were sponsored or cosponsored by Baucus, voting records, and subject files. Subject files constitute the majority of this series, and consist of documents created and kept by Baucus and his staff during the course of their legislative work. Materials contained within subject files include correspondence, research materials, memos, notes, reports, and other related items reflecting the pertinent political and legislative issues of the time. Staffers assigned subjects according to a topical index. This index helped to organize many administrative functions, including legislative research, the tracking of constituent opinion, the compilation of Baucus’s legislative achievements, and responses to constituent concerns.
This series contains administrative records from Max Baucus’s time in the U.S. House of Representatives. Collectively they provide a picture of the day-to-day operations within Baucus’s Washington, D.C. and state offices, reflecting the wide array of activities which take place within Congressional offices.
This subseries contains materials relating to trip planning, office equipment and supply purchases, parking, management of office finances, staff training and management, and administrative correspondence. Also included are successful academy appointments, administrative correspondence, and staff files generated by Baucus’s first Chief of Staff, Steve Browning, who held the position from 1975-1982.
This subseries is comprised of schedules outlining Baucus’s daily agenda in great detail, with to-the-minute times, locations, and background information. These files reflect the busy day-to-day schedule of a member of Congress, as well as the level of work and planning required by staffers to keep office operations running smoothly.
This subseries contains scanned versions of office administration correspondence from Baucus’s second term in the U.S. House of Representatives, largely centering on event scheduling, White House tours, and thank-you notes. These files were originally labeled incorrectly as memos and located elsewhere in the collection, and have since been concentrated in one folder. Original file names have been retained.
This series contains press files from Max Baucus’s time in the U.S. House of Representatives.
This subseries contains advertising circulars, documents from radio appearances and talks, and grant announcements.
This subseries contains press clips and official press releases.
This subseries contains public remarks and addresses given by Max Baucus while serving as a U.S. Representative. In the case of untitled speeches, file names describe the event or group to which Baucus spoke.
This subseries contains press clips and speeches. While it is likely that the majority of these files are reflected in the manuscript portion of this series, exact correlations have not been fully established. The following files constitute only a portion of the files contained within this subseries. A full list of files is available upon request.
This series contains constituent correspondence sent to Max Baucus during his time in the U.S. House of Representatives. Reflecting a variety of topical and legislative issues of the day, these letters provide a broad overview of Montanans’ concerns in mid- to late 1970s America. Environment and agriculture were two primary topics of correspondence, with many letters focusing on grazing, agricultural subsidies, proposed legislation, and wilderness. Central to environmental issues at the time was the passage of the Montana Wilderness Study Act (S. 393), introduced by Senator Lee Metcalf, which became law in 1977 and was to have profound effects on Montana’s land and its residents. Other common areas of concern included Panama Canal negotiations, postal matters, the Equal Rights Amendment, gun control, labor-related legislation, and the Milwaukee Railroad bankruptcy. The majority of files are arranged alphabetically by subject, which were assigned in accordance with an indexing system utilized in Baucus’s office to organize, code and track constituent mail and other documents. This series does not contain a name file.
Also contained within this series are form letters, mass mailings, and yellow files. Form letters were drafted by staffers in response to issues which generated large quantities of constituent mail—these summarized Baucus’s position and eliminated the need to create a unique response for each constituent. Mass mailings are mailings, often in the form of newsletters, sent to constituents on a regular or semi-regular basis. These provided updates on pending legislation, Baucus’s legislative and political activities, information on upcoming events, and sometimes included questionnaires and surveys. Yellow files consist of responses to constituents printed on yellow carbon paper, which are arranged alphabetically by constituent last name. This series also includes 9 reels of microfilm, containing scans of constituent correspondence from 1976.
This series contains legislative materials relating to Max Baucus’s time in the U.S. House of Representatives, which present a clear view of the legislative process from start to finish. These files outline the scope and extent of Baucus’s legislative work throughout his first two terms in Congress, generated and gathered by both Baucus and his staffers. Such work included policy research and development, correspondence and collaboration with members of Congress and other stakeholders, Committee hearings and deliberations, gathering and collating data, and drafting and editing legislation.
This subseries includes bills and resolutions which Baucus sponsored or co-sponsored.
This subseries contains floor statements, prepared remarks delivered by Baucus on the House floor.
This subseries contains material profiling Baucus’s collaborative and individual legislative work and viewpoints. It contains legislative correspondence, typically consisting of correspondence between Baucus and other members of Congress intended to generate support for or opposition to legislation, initiatives, and issues. VIP correspondence—correspondence with well-known or prominent figures—is also included, as well as correspondence with the standing U.S. President. Also included are hearing statements, prepared remarks delivered by Baucus in Committee hearings, and voting records from the 94th and 95th Congresses.
This subseries contains materials generated by Baucus’s Committee service during his time in the House of Representatives. Baucus served on the House Committee on Appropriations for the entirety of his two terms in the House, and the majority of materials contained within this subseries relate to Committee work undertaken by Baucus and his staffers relating to investigations, hearings, legislation, nominations, and other projects. Also included in this subseries are committee assignment materials and files relating to the Committee for a More Active and Effective Congress, a liberal political action committee founded by Eleanor Roosevelt.
This subseries is comprised of records which outline all aspects of legislative research, development, and implementation. File types include, but are not limited to, memos, correspondence, reports, publications, legal briefs, invitations, and legislative drafts. Subject files give a clear indication of the predominant issues which directed Baucus and his staffers’ work. Rural issues—particularly post offices and rural health—ranked high on the list, in addition to President Carter’s zero-based budgeting mechanism for government planning.
This subseries contains scanned Dear Colleague letters, floor statements, hearing statements, and memos. The analog versions of these documents, along with many other types of documents produced by Baucus’s office, were scanned by staffers and converted to digital formats for storage in the office’s document management system, OnBase. Many OnBase files were duplicated or scattered during the transfer process from Baucus’s office to the University of Montana, and the majority of the files in this subseries have subsequently been rearranged by category and renamed to clarify their content, due to a lack of adequate original description. Dear Colleague letters and memos files reflect only a small portion of their analog counterparts, whereas floor and hearing statements files represent a near-complete replication of their analog counterparts. While it is likely that many of the files in this subseries are reflected in the manuscript portion of this series, exact correlations have not been fully established.
This series contains administrative records from Max Baucus’s time in the U.S. Senate, relating specifically to Washington, D.C. and district office operations. Such records reveal the wide range of activities that regularly occur in a Congressional office, particularly those related to legislative research, scheduling, and handling the large volume of constituent mail. They also point to the high turnover of legislative staffers and the fast pace of legislative activity, as well as the subsequent need for detailed training materials and a high level of communication.
This subseries contains materials reflecting the administrative capacity of a congressional office, and include a number of academy appointments, requests for appointment to military service academies that were ultimately successful. These files are not exhaustive; records of academy appointees are maintained by the academies themselves. Also contained within this subseries are a run of ‘Thank you Good Letters’, letters sent to Max Baucus expressing appreciation for speaking engagements, constituent assistance, support of various issues, and other services provided. Such letters were identified and retained by staffers for campaign and legislative record purposes. Friendly File cards likewise record constituents willing—or potentially willing—to assist in fundraising, canvassing, volunteering, and other supportive efforts. Additional administrative files include mail reports, indexes and filing keys, conference-planning materials, memos, invitations, staff training manuals and guides, and trip files. In addition to scheduling materials, trip files contain a myriad of documents including memos, background information on people and places, and drafts of prepared remarks. Of particular note in this subseries are those records pertaining to the Montana Economic Development Summit, a recurring event focusing on Montana jobs and the economy established by Max Baucus in 2000.
This subseries, while similarly reflecting the administrative functions of a Congressional office, is comprised of schedules and related documents which outline Baucus’s daily agendas. These documents provide great insight into the day-to-day activities of a member of Congress, as well as the high level of planning and meticulous attention to detail required by staffers to plan activities and maintain adherence to scheduled activities. They include specific times, locations, transportation information, background information on both issues and people, and other useful contextual information.
This subseries contains born-digital administrative records from Baucus’s time in the Senate, records which were created in an electronic format. These files act as a foil to analog administrative records, serving as the digital footprint of administrative functions within Baucus’s office. In addition to such day-to-day administrative material as calendars, forms, call reports, and manuals, this subseries also contains indexes of paper records sent to National Records Centers in Denver, Colorado and Suitland, Maryland for preservation. Also included are inventories of records which were created in preparation for their shipment to the University of Montana.
Files from Baucus’s Senate website, www.baucus.senate.gov, have not been retained. Archived iterations of the website between October 13, 1999 and April 4, 2014 can be found on the Internet Archive’s WayBack Machine at https://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.baucus.senate.gov/.
This series contains press materials produced during Max Baucus’s time in the U.S. Senate, providing insights into his communication style, public persona, and representation in local and national press. They also reveal the ways in which Baucus connected with his constituents, highlighting prioritized topical issues and demographics.
Staffers regularly collected news clippings that mentioned or featured Max Baucus, and those contained within this subseries document the entirety of his career in the Senate. Scattered throughout are Max Baucus Reports, short legislative updates and topical pieces that were written by Baucus and published in various Montana newspapers between 1979 and 1984.
This subseries consists of prepared statements released by Max Baucus regarding legislation, current events, sponsored and cosponsored bills, and other political and legislative issues of the day. It also contains news headlines and summaries from Montana newspapers, which were filed with some early office press releases. Beginning in March of 1993 press releases were filed individually, with topics typed on individual folder labels. While press releases are listed here by date, a list of these topics is available upon request.
It is possible to trace Max Baucus’s growing national exposure and expertise on particular topics through this complete run of speeches and public remarks given during his time in the Senate. Baucus gave speeches to some groups on a regular basis, casting light on one of the ways in which he maintained connections with important components of his base. These included groups and events like the Montana Graingrowers Association, the AFL-CIO, the Montana Cattlemen’s Association, the Wool Growers Convention, the Montana Democratic Party Mansfield-Metcalf Dinner, and high school and college commencements. We can also trace his growing proficiency in Asian foreign affairs through the many speeches relating to Vietnam, Korea, Japan, and especially China, focusing particularly on trade, economic and human rights issues. For those speeches which are untitled, file names describe the group(s) to which Baucus spoke.
This subseries contains preparatory and administrative press-related materials, which include memos, interview preparations, and an indexed directory to important speeches.
This subseries contains press clips, press releases, and speeches spanning Baucus’s Senate career. Speeches and some press releases have been renamed to clarify file content. While it is likely that the majority of these files are reflected in the manuscript portion of this series, exact correlations have not been fully established. The following speech files constitute only a portion of the files contained within this subseries. A full list of files is available upon request.
This series contains constituent correspondence generated and received throughout Max Baucus’s time in the U.S. Senate. Consisting of correspondence generated by constituents, staffers, and Baucus himself, the material in this series weaves a 35-year narrative of constituent concerns, pressing topical issues, support for and opposition to legislation, and, more broadly, the symbiotic relationship between Senator Baucus and his constituents.
Constituent Correspondence contains correspondence between Montana constituents and Max Baucus’s offices. Congressional offices undergo high staff turnover, resulting in ever-evolving records management systems and organizational schema. These evolutions are commonly reflected in constituent correspondence management, given the large volume of material, and are also affected by changes in technology. Such was the case in Baucus’s Congressional offices, particularly with the advent of in-house Senate computing technology in the mid-1980s. Constituent correspondence organizational schemas have thus been pieced together from office manuals, filing guides and computer code lists. This subseries does not contain a name file.
Several unique categories of correspondence can be found in the first fifteen boxes: ‘Dear Montana’, Form Letters, Mass Mailings, and Robo Letters. There is no clear distinction between ‘Dear Montana’ correspondence and other constituent correspondence. Form Letters consist of letters drafted by staffers in response to issues which had generated large quantities of constituent mail, summarizing Baucus’s position and eliminating the need to craft a unique response to each constituent. Similarly, Mass Mailings are mailings--often in the form of newsletters--sent to constituents on a regular or semi-regular basis. These provided updates on pending legislation, Baucus’s legislative and political activities, information on upcoming events, and sometimes included questionnaires and surveys. All of these groupings are arranged chronologically, with the exception of Robo Letters. Robo letters, which date from 1980-1985, are letters generated by an early word-processing machine known as the “ROBO” system. They consist of carbon copy letters sent from Baucus to constituents, responding to inquiries and concerns. Robo Letters from 1980 are arranged in alphabetical order by constituent last name; letters from 1981-1985 are arranged chronologically.
As is evident in the folder titles, in-office methods of filing constituent correspondence changed over the years. From 1979-1987, correspondence is arranged by topics designated by an in-house filing guide and computer code list. From 1987 through 1998, correspondence is arranged by unique numerical identifiers assigned to each letter as it was entered into the office’s Constituent Services System (CSS). These numbers do not necessarily connote, however, exact chronological order, and the dates assigned to these folders often correspond to the date on which correspondence was entered into the CSS, rather than the date on which a letter was written.
The second subseries, Petitions, contains mass mailings sent to Max Baucus between 2010 and 2014. These petitions center on a number of legislative and topical issues and were mailed by constituents to convey collective grievances, opinions, and support for/opposition to particular pieces of legislation. Petitions have been sampled to reduce volume—original quantities and sampling data are available upon request.
The third subseries consists of 799 individual reels of microfilm, containing filmed images of constituent correspondence and mail reports generated between 1979 and 1988. Please ask the archivist for a list of individual reel contents.
This subseries consists of electronic files related to constituent services, including e-newsletters, mass mailings, scanned correspondence and microfilm, and a smattering of in-office mail reports exported from Microsoft Outlook dating from 2011-2013. While much of the scanned correspondence does likely have analog surrogates, it is not wholly representative of analog constituent correspondence held within the Max S. Baucus Papers. Similarly, the microfilm files in this subseries correspond to a portion of physical microfilm reels, but not all. This subseries also contains data files exported from Constituent Services Systems (CSS), large-scale databases that manage the relationship between a member of Congress and their constituency. These systems facilitated a variety of activities related to constituent relations, including scheduling, correspondence and casework management, and document management. Baucus’s offices utilized a proprietary program called Intranet Quorum (IQ) from the mid-1990s to 2008, and VOICE from 2008 to 2014.
This series contains material relating to Max Baucus’s legislative work in the U.S. Senate, encompassing policy research and development, legislation sponsorship and co-sponsorship, Senate votes, correspondence on legislative matters, and committee work. It provides a comprehensive overview of Baucus’s voting habits, relationships with his colleagues in Congress and other significant stakeholders, legislative priorities, and leadership roles in the Senate.
This subseries contains the text of bills and resolutions sponsored or cosponsored by Baucus, and do not constitute a complete run. All sponsored and cosponsored bills can be found online at the U.S. Congress’ website. Legislative Activities are federal compendiums of all sponsored and cosponsored bills but include summaries of the bills rather than the full text.
This subseries contains floor statements, remarks given by Baucus on the Senate floor. While floor statements are listed here by Congress, they are also foldered individually by statement topic. Please ask an archivist for an inventoried list of individual floor statement topics.
The Congressional Profile contains material which, as the title implies, outlines the scope and nature of Baucus’s legislative work while serving in the Senate. It includes hearing statements, “Dear Colleague” and other legislative correspondence, briefing books, and legislative strategy materials. “Dear Colleague” correspondence traditionally consists of letters sent to and from other members of Congress requesting support for or against legislation, explaining policy stances, or urging other legislative actions. The “Dear Colleague” correspondence in this collection does consist primarily of such letters, though this category also contains other, less formalized correspondence between members of Congress, including handwritten and signed notes and letters on official letterhead. “Dear Official/VIP” is a Baucus office designation, applied to correspondence to and from federal officials, ambassadors, executives, and other designated important administrators. “Dear President” letters consist of letters sent from Baucus, and sometimes colleagues, to the sitting president requesting support or urging specific action on executive matters.
Legislative Strategy material contains files laying out legislative plans and strategies for upcoming Congresses, legislation, or issues. Briefing books are materials gathered by staffers to prepare Max Baucus for various trips, public appearances, hearings, meetings, and other events. They contain background information regarding people he would be meeting or speaking with, pieces of legislation, companies and cities, answers to tough questions he might encounter, and any other necessary preparatory material.
Voting records were produced by four distinct entities: the Congressional Research Service, the Democratic Policy Committee, various interest groups, and Baucus’s office itself. While no one grouping contains a complete run of Baucus’s Senate voting record, together they provide a comprehensive overview of his voting habits and record. Whereas materials produced by both the Congressional Research Service and the Democratic Policy Committee provide a fairly straightforward, quantitative record of Baucus’s Senate votes, those generated by interest groups and Baucus staffers tend to be more interpretative. Interest group voting records examined how Baucus voted in regards to particular issues, and were often a good gauge of support in various topical areas. Some voting records produced by Baucus staffers also focused on particular issues, though they served a variety of other purposes: tracking Baucus’s support (via votes) of particular constituencies, bolstering campaign claims, and analyzing his overall legislative record for future planning purposes. The most recent document was authored in 2018 by a former staff member, Spencer Gray, and provides a comprehensive summary of Baucus’s legislative accomplishments.
Baucus’s service on various congressional committees and subcommittees during his time in the Senate is the basis for the third subseries, Committee Files. While official congressional committee records must remain in the care of the committee itself, the congressional office records contained within this subseries were generated during work undertaken by Baucus and his staffers relating to committee investigations, hearings, legislation, nominations, and other projects. Significant within this subseries are committee records generated during Baucus’s tenure as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, in addition to Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works records regarding the asbestos environmental disaster in Libby, Montana. Baucus served as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance on three separate occasions: January 3, 2001-January 20, 2001; June 6, 2001-November 22, 2002; and January 4, 2007-February 6, 2014. He also served as Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Public Works from January 3, 1993-December 1, 1994.
Subject files consist of materials generated by Baucus and his staffers during the course of legislative and administrative work. These records, filed by subject, present perhaps the clearest view of legislative work in Congress, outlining all aspects of legislative research, development and implementation. They also illuminate the complex web of relations on Capitol Hill, outlining the ways in which Baucus and his staff worked together as well as with other members of Congress, Congressional staffers, federal employees, public officials, and constituents. Given the level of detailed description and arrangement, this subseries serves as a useful tool with which to both trace trending topical issues of the day and determine legislative priorities for Baucus and his staffers. Trade, agricultural, and environmental issues are consistently significant, as are postal services and rural health. File types include, but are not limited to, memos, correspondence, reports, publications, legal briefs, invitations, white papers, and legislative drafts.
Libby files are comprised of materials pertaining to the asbestos-based environmental disaster which came to light in Libby, Montana in the late 1990s. Max Baucus was instrumental in advocating for the rights of Libby citizens affected by the asbestos crisis, and pushed for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to declare a Public Health Emergency in Libby, the first time that the agency ever did so. He also cosponsored several pieces of legislation related to asbestos injury compensation and environmental cleanup. This subseries includes material related to this legislation as well as the 2005 Department of Justice criminal proceedings against W.R. Grace and Company, W.R. Grace’s 2007 bankruptcy proceedings, asbestos litigation reform, the EPA investigation, Libby’s Superfund designation, and asbestos-related health programs and initiatives.
Documents generated by staffers in the course of their work as legislative assistants, legislative correspondents, mailroom specialists, and other legislative and administrative roles in Max Baucus’s offices constitute the eighth subseries, Staff Files. These materials focus primarily on particular topical subjects and legislation, correlating with staffers’ area(s) of expertise. While most materials were generated in the course of a singular staffer’s work, some were created by multiple staffers as indicated by initial inventories accompanying the files.
This subseries consists of electronic records documenting all aspects of legislative work conducted by Max Baucus and his staffers throughout his time in the Senate. It contains briefing books, unofficial committee files, floor statements, hearing statements, legislative correspondence, memos, and a small selection of sponsored and cosponsored bills, staff files, and subject files. Of particular note are Senate Committee on Finance materials, as Baucus was Chairman and/or ranking member for 12 of the 35 total years he served on the Committee. These materials consist of Finance Chairman letters, press clips, press releases, and hearing statements. Files also include hearing statements from Baucus’s other committee work, memos, subject files, voting record materials, and a number of staff files. Some files and folders have been renamed to better reflect their contents. While it is likely that many of these files are reflected in the manuscript portion of this series, exact correlations have not been fully established.
This series contains material relating to Max Baucus’s political campaigns, shining a light on the complexity of Congressional campaign and polling activities.
These files were generated during Max Baucus’s first campaign for public office in 1972, when he ran for a seat in the Montana House of Representatives. They contain candidate statements and press materials, in addition to some campaign ephemera.
This subseries is comprised of materials from Max Baucus’s two House campaigns in 1974 and 1976, as well as files on campaign opponents and other candidates. Files include campaign press materials, circulars and brochures, correspondence and memos.
Materials from Max Baucus’s six campaigns for election to the Senate constitute the third subseries. The groundwork for Baucus’s political campaigns was often laid two years in advance, and involved a great number of campaign staff, volunteers, canvassers, fundraisers, and political consultants. Files include campaign press materials, circulars and brochures, memos, debate preparatory materials, voter surveys and polls, endorsements, election results, and campaign ephemera.
Materials in this subseries consist of audio and video recordings documenting Baucus’s House and Senate campaigns. Contents include campaign advertisements, radio spots, interviews, inauguration activities, campaign events, and debates. A great deal of the magnetic tape and film reels have little to no accompanying description, and largely appear to contain short audio and video clips recorded for use in campaign advertisements. Particularly noteworthy in this subseries are Baucus family videos from 1955, presumably utilized for campaign ads.
This subseries contains results from Max Baucus’s 2000 campaign primaries, as well as campaign files from Max Baucus’s Senate run in 2002, his fifth Senatorial campaign. These files include campaign media files, website material, fliers, the opening statement for a July 2002 debate with opponents Mike Taylor, Stan Jones, and Bob Kelleher, and notes from Taylor’s withdrawal press conference on October 10, 2002. Some files have been renamed to better reflect their contents.
This series consist of materials documenting Max Baucus’s participation in local and national political initiatives, largely based around his membership in the Democratic Party. Files relate to Baucus’s earliest participation in the political process—the 1972 Montana Constitutional Convention—as well as his involvement in various Democratic Party groups and activities, including the Democratic Policy Committee and the Democratic Study Group.
This subseries represents the physical portion of this series, and contains records relating to Baucus’s participation in local and national political processes.
This subseries contains a 1972 press clip quoting Max Baucus while he was serving in the Montana Constitutional Convention. It also contains a number of topical “Talking Points” broadsides disseminated by the Democratic Policy Committee on April 10, 2003.
This series contains photographic material documenting both Max Baucus’s personal life and political career. This series contains photographic material documenting both Max Baucus’s personal life and political career.
This subseries is comprised of physical photographs and slides spanning the entirety of Max Baucus’s political career, in addition to some family and personal photographs. These images document all aspects of Baucus’s tenure as an elected official, including legislative work, campaign activities, administrative duties, Democratic Party events, and public appearances. Many titles encompass multiple images, generally because multiple photographs were taken at a single event or because numerous photographs were taken on a single day. Original Baucus staff-generated titles have been retained.
This subseries contains miscellaneous photographs included in a new accession (group of materials transferred to the repository at a single time) which were transferred to the repository in 2017. These photographs largely document Baucus’s personal life and cover a wide span of time, ranging from his college days to the 2008 Mansfield-Metcalf Dinner. Photographs were assigned unique identifiers by the processing archivist.
This subseries similarly contains a number of photographs included in a new accession from 2018. It consists of images from various campaign and workday events, showing Baucus interacting and speaking with people who are likely constituents. Little descriptive information accompanied these photographs, and most are undated. Photographs were assigned unique identifiers by the processing archivist.
Photographic negatives span Baucus’s personal and political lives, each bearing a unique numerical identifier assigned by Baucus staffers. While there is no documentation directly linking these negatives to analog surrogates in this series, it is highly likely that the majority of them do correlate with photographs in Subseries 1.
This subseries consists of digital images documenting Baucus’s personal and political lives, many of which correspond with analog photographs contained within Subseries 1. While it is likely that the majority of these files are reflected in the manuscript portion of this series, exact correlations have not been fully established.
Materials in this sub-subseries consist of digital images from Baucus's tenure in the U.S. House of Representatives. These photographs were digitized by Baucus staffers prior to their transfer to the University of Montana. Original file and folder names have been retained.
This sub-subseries contains digital images taken and compiled by both Baucus staffers and Senate staffers throughout the duration of Baucus’s tenure in the U.S. Senate. Photos taken prior to Baucus’s Senate career were gathered and used by Baucus staffers for various campaign and web content purposes. Original file and folder names have been retained. The digital images that are listed constitute only a small selection of the files contained within this sub-subseries. A complete list of files is available upon request.
Materials in this sub-subseries consist of photographs transferred to the repository in 2018 on optical media. These images were subsequently converted to a digital format by the processing archivist. They document a 2011 hike in Big Sky, Montana, a CODEL (Congressional Delegation) trip to Iraq in 2007, and trade trips to the United Arab Emirates and Vietnam in 2008. Original file and folder names have been retained.
This series consists of audiovisual material, both audio and video recordings. It covers the entirety of Baucus’s congressional career, particularly emphasizing campaign material, television appearances, and Committee hearings, and reflects more than three decades of continually-evolving audiovisual technology.
This subseries contains audio recordings which document field hearings, speeches, town hall meetings, interviews, news clips, campaign appearances, floor statements, and committee hearings in which Baucus took part. Topics range widely, and many of the audio recordings were recorded in towns in and around Montana. Campaign audio in this subseries is not limited to Max Baucus’s campaigns, and also covers the campaigns of some political opponents and allies, including Pat Williams and Allen Kolstad. Most, but not all, audio recordings include Baucus—some were generated during town hall meetings and field hearings at which Baucus was not present. All audiocassettes in this subseries were digitized by Baucus’s office, files which can be found in Subseries 3, Electronic Files.
This subseries contains video recordings consisting of a variety of formats. Content includes committee hearings (including Environment and Public Works, Appropriations, Finance, and Agriculture), floor and hearing statements, speeches, interviews, public service announcements, town halls, news clips and talk show appearances, and campaign debates, ads, and statements. A variety of topics are covered, including foreign relations with Japan, Cambodia, and the Middle East, transportation, wilderness, tax reform, trade, and the asbestos crisis in Libby. Items with a VHS number have accompanying CD or DVD surrogates and were converted to digital files by Baucus staffers, which can be found in Subseries 3, Electronic Files.
This subseries contains digital audio and video recordings generated throughout Baucus’s political career. The majority of these recordings were converted from analog to digital formats by Baucus staffers, and consist of campaign advertisements, television debates, television and radio interviews, public service announcements, televised floor statements, and advertisements for events like the Montana Economic Development Summit and the Faith Community Impact Summit. Converted Optical Media consists of optical media items (CDs and DVDs) which were converted to more stable digital formats by archives staff, and an inventory of their contents is available upon request. The majority of original file and folder names have been retained, though some files have been renamed for clarity. While it is likely that many of these files are reflected in the analog portion of this series, exact correlations have not been fully established.
This series contains a wide variety of awards and other memorabilia given to Baucus in recognition of his legislative and public service work. Items include framed workday photographs, ceremonial pens commemorating the signing of legislation, framed pieces of legislation, various awards and certificates reflecting Baucus’s lengthy running career, miscellaneous artworks, and campaign ephemera.
This subseries contains the physical artifacts which make up the analog portion of this series. Items within the original accession (acquisition) were surveyed, and selected artifacts were retained based on their historic, intrinsic, exhibit, and/or research value.
This subseries contains digital images of all awards originally contained within the Baucus Papers, including artifacts which were not retained. Original file names have been retained.
This series consists of digital records from Max Baucus's tenure as the United States Ambassador to the People's Republic of China. They include nomination endorsements from Montana leaders, Baucus's nomination statement to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, photographs from his swearing-in ceremony, a video of Baucus encouraging Chinese companies to do business in the United States, and photographs from his time spent in China as Ambassador.
The Montana Gerontology Society collection includes records related to the business of the Society, newsletters published by the organization, and materials related to its annual conferences.
This series contains administrative documents and photographs related to the Montana Gerontology Society. Documents include minutes and by-laws. Photographs are of board members.
This series contains materials related to the Montana Gerontology Society's annual conferences and is divided into three sub-series: Conference Materials, Schedules and Photographs.
This collection contains research from The Missoula Women for Peace Oral History Project, including interview transcripts, photographs and slides of MWP members and events, digital files, and organizational materials created during Dawn Walsh’s administration of the project. These resources offer a history of the creation and continued work of Missoula Women for Peace as well as an intimate look into the personal histories and activist actions of eleven group members.
The Frank D. Brown Family Papers include Frank D. Brown's business correspondence, a few personal letters, financial records, insurance registers, Society of Montana Pioneers records and correspondence, his historical, fiction, and speech writings, photos, and memorabilia. Series II, James M. Brown, includes personal correspondence and letters related to the Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers. Series III, Rutledge and Albertina Brown Parker, includes correspondence with Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers, insurance and legal issues.
Series I, Frank D. Brown, is divided into six subseries reflecting the type or theme of the materials included. Subseries 1 includes correspondence about his mining work and partnerships, a small amount of personal correspondence mostly with his daughter, Albertina (Tina) Brown, and letters related to his activities and interest in the Society of Montana Pioneers. Brown corresponded frequently with James A. Murray, Butte banker, investor and uncle of James E. Murray; Paul A. Fusz, mine owner; C.D. McClure, one of the owners of the Granite Mountain and Bi-Metallic Mines; and W.A. Clark, Montana copper baron. Subseries 2 includes financial records relevant to Brown's mining businesses, reports on various mines, insurance registers for his Philipsburg, Montana, based insurance company, and a few legal documents. Subseries 3 reflects his long time membership in the Society of Montana Pioneers and his efforts to establish historical monuments and records of significant events in Montana history. It also includes a copy of the 1865 receipt that served as proof of Brown's arrival in Montana. Subseries 4 holds Brown's historical writings about Montana, his fiction about forest animals and also stories set in foreign locales, and speeches about Montana history. Subseries 5 includes photos of the Brown Family, the Society of Montana Pioneers, friends and dignatories as well as Philipsburg and Helena locations. Subseries 6 includes biographical information, news clippings about Brown, Montana pioneers, and Montana history, a few pieces about the United Confederate Veterans, and memorabilia.
Series II, James M. Brown, includes personal correspondence and correspondence related to the Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers.
Series III, Rutledge and Albertina Brown Parker, includes correspondence related to Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers, insurance and legal issues.
The collection consists of three typescript narrative reminisces by Mitchell; the original handwritten copy for one is also present. “When Just a Pup” tells the story of his early childhood. “The Era of the Cowpuncher” gives more details of the work that he and his father did and gives comparisons between the lives of the early cowboys and the lives of those in the late 1960s. “The Steer That Wouldn’t Go to Market” tells the story of a stubborn cow with which he worked.
This collection includes Mary Birch’s narrative of the events and emotions surrounding her Montana Human Rights Complaint and her colleagues’ District Court discrimination suit. The collection contains correspondence and initial documentation gathered and prepared for the Discrimination Grievance Committee that preceded the Montana Human Rights Complaint, the Committee Findings, The Montana Human Rights Complaint and Findings, the District Court Case and Findings, and memos and news clippings related to gender equity at The University of Montana.
The collection contains clippings, correspondence, notes, photographs, publications, slides, audio material, and visual material related to Carling Malouf’s work and activities in the University of Montana’s Anthropology Department, as well as Malouf’s research on Native American tribes of the Northwest and the Plains. Materials include papers related to the history of the University of Montana’s Department of Anthropology; the history of Kyi-Yo (spelled Kyiyo since 2015), the University of Montana’s Native American Student Association; and the Native American Studies Department at the University of Montana. The collection also contains materials related to the AIM/Wounded Knee incident and ensuing trial, research on Native American Education, materials related to Montana archaeology digs and sites, and photographs and notes related to the tribes of Montana. Also included are papers, correspondence, and notes related to Carling Malouf’s involvement in the development of the Head Start program, as well as correspondence, notes, newsletters, and publications related to the Montana Archaeological Society.
This collection has been divided into five series: Series I: University Materials (1954-2004), contains notes, departmental budget information, intradepartmental correspondence, clippings, and publications related to Carling Malouf’s role in the Department of Anthropology and the Department of Native American Studies at the University of Montana. Series II: Subject Files (1891-2006), contains materials related to Carling Maoulf’s research and interests in archaeology, anthropology, and the Native American tribes of Montana. The series contains notes, correspondence, clippings, and publications. The series also contains photographs and negatives, most of which were not taken by Malouf, but were collections he considered relevant to his research. Series III: Audio Materials, (ca. 1950-2005 and n.d.), contains reel-to-reel audio and audiocassettes, A portion of this series is recorded talks and lectures of Carling Malouf, and recordings of the songs and stories of Native American tribes of the Northwest. Another portion consists of copies of prerecorded materials related to the Native Americans in the southwest. Series IV: Slides, (1939-1975 and n.d.), consists of slides and a slide index. Some of these images were taken by Carling Malouf and are arranged by tribe name or by the name of a site of archaeological interest. Others are likely commercial slides used in the classroom. In 2012 all slides were removed from carousels and boxes and placed in sleeves. Series V: Moving Image Material, was added in 2012 because of a large addition of 8mm films to the collection. The series also includes DVDs and VHS cassettes.
Notes, departmental budget information, intradepartmental correspondence, clippings, and publications related to Carling Malouf’s role in the Department of Anthropology and the Department of Native American Studies at the University of Montana.
Materials related to Carling Malouf’s research and interests in archaeology, anthropology, and the Native American Tribes of Montana. The series contains notes, correspondence, clippings, and publications. The series also contains photographs and negatives, most of which were not taken by Malouf but were collections he considered relevant to his research. The series has been arranged alphabetically by folder title. The content in the folder titled 'Helping Indians' has been restricted for privacy reasons.
Contains reel-to-reel audio and audiocassettes. A portion of this series is recorded talks and lectures of Carling Malouf, and recordings of the songs and stories of Native American tribes of the Northwest. Another portion consists of copies of prerecorded materials related to the Native Americans in the southwest.
This series contains slides. Boxes 60 and 61 of this collection, including the slide index, are reproductions of slides in other boxes of the collection. These reproductions were created by Anthropology Professor G. G. Weix in 2004 from original slides held by Carling Malouf. Weix donated these slides to the Archives prior to the acquisition of the original Malouf Slides. The reminder of the slides were donated to the Archives by the Malouf family. Some of these images were taken by Carling Malouf, others are commercial images likely used by him in the classroom. In 2012 slides originally received in slide carousels were transferred to clear sleeves to enhance preservation and access.
This series consists of moving image material filmed by or collected by Carling Malouf. Most of the titles assigned are as given by Malouf (when the material was labeled.) In 2021, films were viewed and content descriptions provided when possible. Commercial films were removed from the series in 2021.
This collection contains a scrapbook compiled by J. Clinton Rule during his time at the State University of Montana (now called the University of Montana) in Missoula. He acquired the nickname "Rusty" from his fraternity brothers and it is prominently displayed on many of the items. The scrapbook includes dance cards, ticket stubs, newspaper clippings, telegrams, photographs, correspondence, various published items from Rule's time on campus, and a freshman beanie. The collection also contains some materials relating to Rule's younger brother, Ted Rule, and his time as a part of the State University's football team.
The collection contains a chronology of Fort Missoula events, correspondence regarding the decommissioning of Fort Missoula, legal documents, maps, writings, clippings and photographs of Fort Missoula and Fort Harrison. In addition, there are documents pertaining to the Maclay business.
This series contains a chronology, reports, histories, legal documents, correspondence and clippings concerning the history of Fort Missoula and individuals stationed there.
Correspondence, legal documents, maps, and clippings concerned with or from the time surrounding the decommissioning of Fort Missoula. Much of the correspondence is with U.S. Congressman Mike Mansfield.
Contains correspondence, financial records, clippings, and an Edward Gleim Maclay biography.
Contains photographs mainly of Fort Missoula and military personnel as well as Fort Harrison in Helena, Montana.
Assembled in the mid-1970's by Bonner School Superintendent Jack L. Demmons, this collection of approximately 1,600 photographs depicts life in and around Bonner, Montana, from the late 1800s through the 1960s. Images and descriptive labels were affixed to photoboards for public display. The photoboards and labels were scanned in sections in 2007 with the goal of providing online access to the images.
The collection consists of outgoing correspondence and financial records from the law firm. Correspondence is mostly with other attorneys in and outside Missoula on real estate dealings. Financial records document general finances of the firm, and also contain two volumes of property for sale in and around Missoula.
This series contains outgoing correspondence in letterpress books. The correspondence, arranged chronologically, ranges from mundane exchanges with office suppliers, to more substantive correspondence on behalf of clients. Exchanges are mostly with other attorneys in and out of Montana.
This series contains financial records from the law firm. Most concern the day to day business of collecting fees and dispersing them to the partners. Many of the records show an active continuing interest in Missoula real estate, particularly south of the Clark Fork River, and dealings with the South Missoula Land Company. Two volumes of records of property for sale list sales in and outside Missoula, giving quite detailed descriptions of land, timber, and other factors, and indicate dealings with and for Hiram Knowles and the Missoula Land Improvement Company.
This collection includes both bound and unbound correspondence, construction and expense reports, financial ledgers, right-of-way descriptions and maps, activity logs, publicity materials (including photographs and film reels), and personnel records created by employees of the Northern Pacific Railway Company and its subsidiary lines between the years 1870 and 1968--though materials are predominantly from the late 1880s through the early 1940s.
The Northern Pacific Railway Records present an extensive and detailed resource for researching railroad corporate management structures, land ownership histories for railroad associated properties (particularly in North Dakota, Montana, Idaho, and Washington state), economic impacts created by railroad construction and repair, corporate investment into raw material production for cheap construction supplies (particularly timber), and NPRR marketing strategies spanning a period of dramatic social and economic change in the American West. Correspondence records in this collection provide significant insights into prevailing railroad management structures during the late 19th and early 20th Centuries--when the rail industry dominated the social, economic, and political realms of rural American life. As was common during the time period, NPRR field operation managers were required to be technical experts as well as administrators. The records generated and/or compiled by the railroad's engineering staff reveal this complex balance of designing construction projects, scheduling traffic flows, and managing day-to-day operations. Rights-of-way documents, property maps, and construction drawings form a uniquely valuable resource for researching individual real estate histories and large-scale settlement patterns. The financial records in this collection provide detailed accounts of occupations and pay schedules for railroad personnel, the corporation's purchases of construction materials and sundry supplies (often specific to individual stations), and freight volumes carried from the region to national markets. The NPRR promotional department records in this collection preserve sometimes overt and often subtle techniques intended to both create and reinforce the railroad's preferred images of life in the Rocky Mountain West and Pacific Northwest. These promotional materials form a particularly interesting body of evidence for comparison and contrast with perceptions presented by contemporary regional literatures as well as the department's focus on highlighting agricultural abundance during periods of drought and farm foreclosures.
Materials in this collection were predominantly generated or compiled by engineering and promotions personnel. For the most part, engineering department recording procedures are consistent; however, the materials in sub-group 2 were generated by subsidiary and associated rail lines that reflect widely varying recording policies and project goals. Additionally, NPRR engineers tended to move frequently, causing some degree of discontinuity.
This subgroup contains materials generated by employees of the Engineering Department of the Northern Pacific Railway's primary rail lines. Series III through XX contain records generated by the geographic divisions the railway established for hierarchical management (largely defined by state borders and more localized spurs). Series I and II contain records related to constructing and managing the primary lines spanning these geographic divisions. Materials primarily consist of records generated or compiled by NPRR Engineering Department managers (usually identified as "chief engineer," "assistant engineer," or "engineer in charge") regarding property acquisitions, construction projects, repair work, station activities, line traffic, production numbers from subsidiary operations, and general management.
These materials provide significant primary resources for examining railroad corporate management structures, land ownership histories for properties associated with the main railroad lines and spurs, regional and localized economic impacts created by railroad construction and repair, and cycles of railroad investment into timber harvesting as a source for cheap construction materials. Information in this series is primarily presented through general correspondence, bound financial ledgers, compiled tracking reports and narrative summaries, blue print diagrams and maps, and day books maintained by unidentified railroad staff. Throughout this subgroup the phrase "Force Reports" in folder titles refers to reports filed by line engineers regarding actual and projected personnel hours (work force) for construction and repair projects.
This series includes materials related to constructing and managing the NPRR's primary rail line, with particular attention to the Montana and Idaho legs. This series is further divided into nine subseries highlighting some of the most intensive construction projects--such as line changes, tunnels, and re-gradings. Construction planning correspondence, cost estimates, material requisitions, progress summaries, work force reports, billing records, rights-of-way documents, and design diagrams predominate the series. These materials form an extensive record of the railroad's contributions to and impacts upon the region over nearly 100 years. Construction records provide detailed accounts of local and imported supplies, work force numbers and pay schedules, large- and small-scale landscape transformations, and land ownership patterns.
This series also contains a few daily logs of station activities and line traffic, providing insights into the railroad's role within rural communities. Additionally, the series includes several folders of collected speeches and writings. None of the speeches in this series are attributed to an author and they appear to be intended for delivery to local civic groups. Most speeches are accompanied by newspaper articles and pamphlets--apparently research sources. The speeches and writings sequence includes a few brief histories of the Northern Pacific line and the communities along its routes. These histories are written from the perspective of the Northern Pacific (such that the history of a place tends to begin when the railroad arrived) and appear to be intended as light reading for passengers on cross-country trips. The speeches and writings sequence also includes foreign language promotional materials--mostly Eastern European languages--promoting the agricultural abundance of lands along the rail line.
This series includes materials related to constructing and managing the NPRR's second main rail line. As with Series I, materials in this series exhibit particular attention to the Montana leg of the line; however, they also include records from the Minnesota and Washington state legs. This series is further divided into five subseries--the largest of which details construction projects and traffic reports for the leg between Garrison and Missoula, Montana. Survey records, construction planning correspondence, cost estimates, material requisitions, progress summaries, work force reports, billing records, rights-of-way documents, and design diagrams predominate the series. Construction records detail local and imported supplies as well as work force numbers and pay schedules. Correspondence records provide insights into the challenges engineers faced in designing multiple river crossings due to narrow canyons, procedures and rationales for subcontracting work projects, and long-term operations problems (such as derailments and mud/rock slides).
Subseries 2, regarding the Garrison to Missoula leg, includes a notable sequence of correspondence, encroachment agreements, and construction designs intended to mitigate the proximity of Northern Pacific Railroad and Milwaukee Railroad lines through narrow stretches of the Clark Fork River valley, particularly near Bearmouth and Clinton, Montana.
This series consists entirely of bound accounting records maintained by the Main Line Office in Helena, Montana. These records are statewide expense summaries presented through an account balance format--as opposed to the project-by-project budgets present in the reports compiled by field staff.
This series includes bound correspondence and financial records generated by the Chief Engineers of the Idaho Division of the Northern Pacific. Financial records include detailed reports regarding construction material costs, production numbers from the Ellisport (Idaho) lumber mill, passenger manifests, and station activities--particularly from Wallace, Idaho. These latter records evidence the economic prominence of Wallace in the Idaho panhandle prior to the devasting forest fires of 1910 that burned much of the town and transformed the region's economic patterns.
This series consists of correspondence and financial records generated by the Clarks Fork and Pend d’Oreille Division, operating in western Montana and northern Idaho. Correspondence materials primarily describe line repair projects and traffic summaries. Financial records primarily detail production numbers and shipments (incoming and outgoing) for the NPRR's lumber yard in Hope, Idaho. Processed lumber from this yard was a significant source for the railroad's construction projects throughout the region. The absence of records after 1910 may reflect the impact of the 1910 forest fires that heavily impacted the region.
This series consists of correspondence, financial, and personnel records generated by the Missoula Division, operating in western Montana and northern Idaho. Correspondence materials primarily describe line construction and repair projects as well as traffic summaries. Construction records (both correspondence and financial journals) detail local and imported supplies as well as project progress reports. Personnel records in this series provide insights into the buying habits of railroad employees who used payroll vouchers to purchase goods from the company (stations and dining cars). In addition, this series includes a file detailing next-of-kin information for employees at the Drummond, Montana, station and may serve as a valuable resource for genealogical studies and local history surveys.
This series consists of construction correspondence and financial records generated by the Missouri Division of the NPRR line, operating primarily in eastern Montana. Correspondence materials primarily describe line construction and repair projects. Construction records detail local and imported supplies as well as project progress reports. This series includes progress journals that provide brief insights into work conditions and procedural routines at a few construction sites.
This series contains one bound volume of clothing, equipment, and food supply requests from the Assistant Engineer stationed in Harlowton, Montana--a post within the NPRR's Montana Division.
This series consists of correspondence, financial, personnel, and construction records generated by the Rocky Mountain Division of the NPRR line. The Rocky Mountain Division spanned most of Montana and this series includes several distinct and extensive sequences of materials documenting construction projects, management of multiple branch lines, construction blueprints, internal and outgoing correspondence, and station histories. Construction records (both correspondence and financial journals) detail local and imported supplies as well as project progress reports. Many contruction records in this series also include blueprint details for site preparation and design. Branch lines records include Boulder, Bozeman, Camp Creek, Couer d'Alene, Phillipsburg, Red Bluff, and Ruby Valley. This series contains extensive blueprints for the branch lines listed above. In addition to the branch line sequences, this series includes extensive records regarding redesign and repair of the Missoula to Garrison leg.
Internal correspondence records address construction projects, company policies, and acquisition procedures. Outgoing correspondence records predominantly detail rights-of-way inquiries, land acquisition negotiations, grazing leases for railroad properties, and freight negotiations with clients. This sequence (organized by the community or rail line closest to the recipient) presents extensive documentation of land ownership patterns, grazing patterns, and agricultural production numbers. Often clients compiled several years of production numbers into a single report to bolster their requests for freight rate adjustments. Station and changing yard reports provide detailed historical and contemporary accounts of design intentions, community contributions, renovation projects, cycles of traffic volume and spur connections, prominent managers, colorful characters associated with the stations, and generally how the stations fit within the context of the larger community. In addition, financial and personnel records in this series lend insights into the menus offered by station cafeterias, dining cars, and work camp cooks.
This series includes construction documents generated by the Yellowstone (River) Division of the Northern Pacific Railroad, operating primarily in southeastern Montana. These records consist of construction/repair project correspondence and financial records. Financial records include details of materials used and projected costs. This series also includes a single folder of materials regarding the Shields River Branch of the NPRR.
This series contains general correspondence, blueprints, and financial records (including station reports and contracts) from the Washington and Oregon lines of the NPRR. Correspondence records primarily consist of internal documents detailing administrative policies, construction projects, land purchases, and supply requests as well as extensive exchanges with construction subcontractors, unaffiliated lines, and station supply vendors. Within the financial records are abstracts, vouchers, payroll documents, and correspondence. These financial records compliment the correspondence files in detailing construction project logistics, personnel actions, and agreements with subcontractors and vendors. The bound volumes of construction financial records provide extensive details on materials used, local and imported resources, work force structures, and projected costs for alternate approaches.
This series contains bound volumes of outgoing correspondence and financial records from the Cascade Division of the Northern Pacific Railway, which operated from south-central British Columbia through eastern Washington to western Idaho. Financial records include ledgers, journals, and other materials that document activities at the Ainsworth Lumber Mill and construction projects for bridges to Ainsworth, Washington, from Kennewick to Pasco, Washington, and over the Snake River. The Ainsworth Mill apparently produced large quantities of timber used for NPRR construction projects but also marketed to other industrial builders.
This series contains construction documents generated by the Pacific Division of the NPRR, operating in western Oregon and Washington. Land acquisition correspondence, construction proposals and estimates, subsidiary line communications, and maps predominate the series. Bound volumes include outgoing correspondence from station engineers, financial records (such as freight bills, transaction ledgers, and station maintenance vouchers) and personnel documents.
This series contains bound volumes of outgoing correspondence and financial records from the Portland Division of the NPRR, operating in western Oregon and southern Washington.
This series contains two folders of construction correspondence and design maps created by the Seattle Division of the NPRR.
This series contains general correspondence, financial, and personnel records generated by the Western Division of the NPRR, operating in western and central Washington state. Most records in this series concern construction and maintenance projects, providing extensive details about instrumentation, materials used, work force needs, and station operations. Intensive projects documented in this series include the Hoquiam extension near Tacoma, various coal bunkers in central Washington, and reconstruction of the "Georgie Oaks" steamboat on the Columbia River. This series also includes extensive documentation of negotiations with subcontractors and unaffiliated rail lines. Most materials in this series were generated by the Tacoma Branch; however, other units are represented (such as the Clealum, Centralia, Columbia River, and Eagle Gorge branches).
This series contains bound volumes of outgoing correspondence and financial records from the Yakima Division of the NPRR.
This series contains bound volumes of outgoing correspondence and financial records from the Dakota Division of the NPRR. Materials in this series particularly highlight operations in the communities of Valley City, Sykeston, and Jamestown, North Dakota, and Glendive, Montana.
This series contains correspondence and financial records from the Minnesota Division of the NPRR. Materials include extensive correspondence and financial records generated by operations in Dilworth, Muskoda, and Fergus Falls, Minnesota. This series also includes detailed construction and maintenance records, traffic reports, and vendor contracts.
This series contains outgoing correspondence and financial records from the Wisconsin Division of the NPRR. Correspondence and financial records were primarily generated by F.W.D. Holbrook, the division engineer. Financial records include operation summaries and construction estimates.
This series contains both unbound material and bound volumes from various construction projects of the Northern Pacific Railway Company as well as some materials that could not be authoritatively identified with existing organizational series. The series is divided into ten subseries: (1) Ainsworth Mill (BC), (2) Anacortes Improvements (Washington), (3) Butte Quarry (Montana), (4) Columbia River Bridge No. 1, Pasco-Kennewick, (Washington), (5) J.W. Kendrick: Minnesota/North Dakota/Montana construction, (6) Lewistown Outside Yards (Idaho), (7) Seattle Extension, (8) Seattle Wharf Work, (9) Superior Ore Dock (Wisconsin), and (10) Unidentified. Materials in this series include outgoing correspondence primarily documenting construction projects (subcontractor and vendor agreements) and transportation passes. Financial records in this series generally present construction estimates and actual expenses, cash books, and activity logs.
This series contains photographs intended as a documentary record for railway operations--such as construction projects, railroad facilities, engines, and work conditions--though some promotional photographs are present as well. Photographs in this series constitute a valuable resource documenting landscapes, towns, community events, rural life, work crews, rail infrastructures, and weather events throughout the high plains and montane valleys of the central and western United States--as well as spanning eighty years of dramatic physical, economic, and social change. Materials in this series exhibit several distinct sequences of image themes. Among these are extensive Montana bridge, station, and change yard sequences (often identified by location or structural number but seldom both). Billings, Bozeman, Brockway, Circle, Glendive, Lindsay, and Missoula, Montana--and their respective outlying areas--are among the communities most significantly documented by the images in this series.
Another extensive image sequence documents the possessions, staple crops, and vistas of Mission Valley (Montana) homestead families during the late 1920s. The Mission Valley photographs were captured for promotional purposes, as opposed to the construction and facility images that dominate this series. Another promotional image sequence includes produce being carried to market. These promotional photographs were primarily intended to convey perceptions of abundance and help the railroad sell rail accessible farm plots.
The majority of materials in this series are identified and described individually, with reference to location and date whenever such information could be established; however, the series also includes some grouped photographs recovered from a separated collection. Photographs individually identified and described during original processing were assigned identification numbers according to the year and order in which they were processed. During reprocessing all these photographs were assigned new reference numbers to reflect their relationship within the larger collection--regardless of year--though the original numbers are noted in brackets for cross-reference.
Photographs in boxes 396, 397, and OS1 are not individually processed. These materials are grouped by subject following the titles imposed upon them after they were separated from the original collection and before they were donated to the K. Ross Toole Archives. The conditions and purposes under which these materials were originally separated are unknown.
This subgroup contains materials generated by employees of the branch, predecessor, and subsidiary lines associated with the Northern Pacific Railway Company. These materials were primarily generated by Engineering Department personnel and descriptive terminology is generally consistent with that of Subgroup 1. This subgroup consists of 37 series--most of which are essentially small fragments of the unit's original operations records. Materials include property acquisition correspondence, construction project records (correspondence, financial, and legal records), progress reports, line traffic summaries, and personnel documents.
These materials provide significant primary resources for examining railroad corporate management structures, land ownership histories for properties associated with branch and subsidiary lines as well as regional and localized economic impacts created by railroad construction and repair. Information in this series is primarily presented through general correspondence, bound financial ledgers, compiled tracking reports and narrative summaries, blue print diagrams and maps, and day books maintained by unidentified railroad staff. Throughout this subgroup the phrase "Force Reports" in folder titles refers to reports filed by line engineers regarding actual and projected personnel hours (work force) for construction and repair projects.
Historical and contextual information for some of the branch, predecessor, and related rail lines in this subgroup is very limited. Whenever possible, the scope and notes for each series identify the geographic location of the lines and dates for incorporation into the NPRR system.
The Astoria and Columbia River Railroad Company operated between Seaside and Goble, Oregon, from May 1898 to March 1911. This series contains one folder of general correspondence predating incorporation through July, 1898.
This series contains one folder of general correspondence from Bear Creek Western Railway Company.
The Camp Creek Railway Company operated between Manhattan and Anceny, Montana. It opened its line in 1912, and sold to the NPRR in June 1914. This series contains general correspondence, financial records, and maps pertaining to construction projects. These materials include payroll records, building designs, rights of way inquiries, supply requisitions, work force reports, and project estimates.
The Central Washington Railroad Company operated a line from Cheney to Coulee City, Washington. This series contains general construction correspondence and financial records, primarily detailing project proposals, rights of way inquiries, supply requisitions, progress reports, and work force reports.
The Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company operated main lines from Chicago, IL, to St. Paul, Minnesota, and to St. Louis, MO, and Cody, Wyoming. The CBQRR operated as an affiliated line to the NPRR until 1970 when (with the NPRR) it became a part of the Burlington Northern Railroad Company. This series contains extensive sequences of general correspondence and blueprints from several spurs of the Wyoming Division within the railroad company such as those to Casper, Cody, Worland, Garland, Greybull, and Kane. Blueprints in this series are particularly strong resources for identifying rights of way and land ownership patterns for central and northern Wyoming.
The Clearwater Short Line Railway Company's main lines were from Riparia, Washington, to Grangeville, Stites, and Headquarters, Idaho. The company also operated a line from the central Idaho panhandle to Lolo, Montana. The company was incorporated on November 9, 1898, and sold to the Northern Pacific Railway Company on June 23, 1914. This series contains extensive sequences of general correspondence, financial records, personnel reports, and progress summaries from company divisions such as the Culdesac to Grangeville line, Lapwai Branch to Lewiston, Potlatch Branch, and Lolo Branch. General correspondence materials include telegrams, rights of way, construction estimates, and subcontractor negotiations. These materials constitute an unusually detailed and deep resource for studying economic patterns and land ownership histories from central Idaho to western Montana.
The Coeur d’Alene Railway and Navigation Company's main line ran from Cataldo, Idaho to the Montana state line near Mullan, Idaho. It was sold in foreclosure to the NPRR on January 26, 1897. This series consists of survey, construction, and traffic records (outgoing correspondence, financial, and personnel reports) from the early organizational stages through line operations. Also included in this series field notes from a geographic survey of the Couer d'Alene Indian Reservation completed in 1883--shortly before a series of Federal treaty negotiations reduced Reservation acreage by more than half, spurring the growth of present-day communities such as Cataldo and Couer d'Alene.
The Connell Northern Railway Company operated between Connell and Adco, Washington, between in 1910 and 1914. The company was incorporated on June 1, 1909 and was sold to the NPRR on June 25, 1914. This series contains two bound volumes of outgoing construction correspondence.
The Dixon-Polson Line operated between Dixon and Polson, Montana, across the Flathead Reservation. This series consists of general correspondence spanning several decades of operation, blueprints for construction of the Flathead Branch of the NPRR, expense reports, and payroll records.
The Drummond and Phillipsburg Railroad Company operated a line between Drummond and Phillipsburg, Montana. There was also an extension to Rumsey, Montana, that was abandoned in 1904. The company was incorporated on January 17, 1887 and sold to the Northern Pacific and Montana Railroad Company on September 7, 1888. This series consists of one bound volume containing construction estimates, bills paid, and property statements.
The Gaylord and Ruby Valley Railway Company started a line from Renovo to Twin Bridges, Montana. The company was incorporated on March 29, 1897 and sold to the NPRR on February 28, 1899. Line construction was completed by the NPRR. This series consists entirely of general correspondence dealing with line construction, employment, building materials, subcontractor communications, rights of way inquiries, facility designs, and traffic summaries.
The Grays Harbor and Columbia River Railway Company series is composed entirely of three bound outgoing construction correspondence volumes.
The Great Northern Railway Company was originally the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railroad Company (incorporated May 23, 1879); the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company (incorporated March 10, 1862), and the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company (incorporated March 1, 1956). Originally operating in Minnesota and the Midwest, the company completed its line from Duluth and St. Paul, Minnesota, to Everett and Seattle, Washington in 1893. This series contains one bound volume of cash transactions from the Vaughn Junction station.
The Green River and Northern Railroad Company was incorporated on September 22, 1890 and was sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898. It was a branch line that joined the NPRR system at Palmer Junction in western Washington state. This series contains outgoing construction correspondence, voucher requests, materials from the Kangley Mine Branch, and supply reports.
The Kootenai Valley Railroad Company's main line ran from Bonners Ferry, Idaho, to Porthill, Idaho, on the Canadian border. The company was incorporated on October 19, 1898 and merged into the Great Northern Railway Company in 1913. This series contains one bound volume of outgoing correspondence from C.J. Hollingsworth, Assistant Engineer.
The Livingston-Gardner Branch operated from Livingston to Gardner, Montana. This series contains general correspondence, construction records, and design blueprints generated by the Yellowstone National Park Branch of the NPRR.
The Manitoba Southwestern Colonization Railway series consists of one bound volume detailing supplies received.
The Missoula and Bitter Root Valley Railroad Company operated a line from Missoula to Grantsdale, Montana in 1888. That same year, it was incorporated into the Northern Pacific and Montana Railroad Company. This series consists of one partial reel of microfilm documenting a traffic contract between the M&BRVRR and the Northern Pacific Railway, one bound volume containing outgoing correspondence from C. F. Reardon, the M&BRVRR Assistant Engineer, and one bound volume of vouchers for purchases by railroad personnel.
The Missouri River Railway Company built track from Glendive to Sidney, Montana, and from Cannon Ball to Stanton, North Dakota. The company was incorporated June 13, 1906, in North Dakota and was sold to the NPRR on June 20, 1914. This series contains construction correspondence, asset and supply records, expense reports, subcontractor documents, rights of way inquiries and property acquisitions, progress reports, supply inventories, facility documents, and personnel records. These materials constitute an unusually detailed and deep resource for studying economic patterns and land ownership histories for central eastern Montana.
The Northern Pacific and Montana Railway Company main lines ran from Logan to Butte, Montana and from De Smet, Montana to the Idaho state line. There were also numerous branch lines. This series contains general construction correspondence, newspaper clippings, maps and construction drawings, work force reports, and general financial ledgers.
The Northern Pacific and Puget Sound Shore Railroad Company main line operated between Meeker and Seattle, Washington, with branch lines to Kennydale and from Kirkland Junction to Kirkland, Washington. The company was incorporated on August 23, 1884 and was sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898. This series consists of outgoing construction correspondence, project invoices, construction supply reports, traffic summaries, and personnel records.
The Peninsular Branch operated between Shelton and Gordonville, Washington. This series consists of construction correspondence, supply records, subcontracted projects, facility locations and designs, line repair projects, traffic summaries, progress reports, personnel documents, and operational expense records.
The Port Townsend and Southern Railroad operated main lines between Tenino and Olympia and between Port Townsend and Quilcene, Washington. The main line was sold to the NPRR in 1914; the line was then sold to Joshua Green in 1917. This series consist of one bound volume of purchase vouchers.
The Puget Sound Shore Railroad operated a line between Stuck Junction (south of Kent) to Seattle, Washington. The company was incorporated on August 19, 1882 and was sold to the Northern Pacific and Puget Sound Shore Railroad Company October 31, 1889; which was in turn sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898. This series contains one bound volume of outgoing correspondence from H. C. Estep, Assistant Engineer.
The Rocky Fork and Cooke City Railway Company operated a line from Laurel to Red Lodge, Montana. The company was incorporated on December 10, 1886 and merged into the NPRR on April 21, 1898. This series consists of four bound outgoing correspondence volumes from Chief Engineer A. J. Merritt, one station ledger, and an supplies order book.
The St. Paul and Duluth Railroad Company operated between St. Paul and Duluth, Minnesota. The company was incorporated June 28, 1877 and was sold to the NPRR on June 15, 1900. This series contains information on building materials, construction receipts, and slow orders (for dangerous sections of track) compiled by J. R. Michaels, Assistant Engineer.
The St. Paul and Northern Pacific Railway Company was sold to the NPRR on November 2, 1896. This series consists entirely of construction expenses information.
The Seattle and International Railway Company operated a main line from Seattle, Washington, to Sumas, on the Washington-British Columbia border. The company was incorporated on June 30, 1896. It was reorganized several times before being sold to the NPRR in March 1901. This series contains two bound volumes detailing early railroad construction costs and waybills received at the Arlington, Washington station.
The Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company operated two main lines from Seattle, Washington, to Sumas, on the Washington-British Columbia border, and from Spokane Falls to Davenport, Washington. The company was incorporated on April 28, 1885. It was sold in foreclosure in July 1896. This series contains one bound volume of railway vouchers.
The Shields River Valley Railway Company built a line from Mission to Wilsall, Montana. The company was incorporated October 24, 1908 and merged into the NPRR on June 23, 1914.
This series contains outgoing correspondence, rights of way inquiries, facility designs, personnel records, traffic summaries, purchase vouchers, engineer reports, supply purchases, and general construction records. It also includes a diary kept by an unnamed engineer detailing weather along the line, his daily activities, and company contacts.
The Spokane Falls and Idaho Railroad operated a main line from Hauser Junction, near the Washington-Idaho border, to Coeur d’Alene, Idaho. The company formed on October 25, 1886 and operated from 1886 to 1898, when it was sold to the NPRR. This series contains one bound volume of operating bills.
The Spokane and Palouse Railway Company operated a line from Marshall, Washington, to Genesee and Juliaetta, Idaho from 1886 to 1899. The company was incorporated in 1886 and was sold to the NPRR on February 21, 1899. This series contains general construction correspondence, shipment orders, supply records and engineering department requisitions, rights of way records, personnel documents, and purchase vouchers.
The Tacoma, Olympia and Grays Harbor Railroad Company's main line ran between Lakeview and Ocosta, Washington, on Grays Harbor. The company was formed on May 7, 1890 and sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898. This series consists of outgoing correspondence, employee account ledgers, purchase vouchers and invoices, building supply requests, asset inventories, traffic reports, building records, and personnel documents.
This series contains outgoing correspondence, station ledgers, personnel reports, inventories, outgoing invoices, and property reports.
The Washington and Columbia River Railway Company's main line ran from Pendleton, Oregon, to Dayton, Washington, through Wallula and Walla Walla, Washington. The company was incorporated on August 4, 1892 and was sold to the NPRR in 1907. This series consists entirely of general correspondence.
The Western Dakota Railway Company was formed on June 13, 1906 and was sold to the NPRR on June 20, 1914. This series contains expense reports, vouchers, and daily records pertaining to the Cannonball Line (Laurel to Harlowton, Montana) and the Big Timber station.
The Yakima and Pacific Coast Railroad Company operated a line from Chehalis to South Bend, Washington. The company was formed on May 1, 1890. It was reorganized a few times and sold to the NPRR on April 21, 1898. This series contains outgoing correspondences, purchase vouchers, and construction records--particularly estimates and requisitions.
This subgroup consists of film and photographs produced by the Advertising and Publicity Department of the Northern Pacific Railroad. These materials document the landscapes and communities along the primary railway routes and the promotional techniques employed by the railway company to encourage both tourism and settlement in the region. Additionally, materials in this subgroup provide interesting primary sources for comparing and contrasting the perceptions of life in the Rocky Mountain West and Pacific Northwest promoted by the railroad versus those propagated by news media, agricultural agents, and regional authors during the first half of the 20th Century.
This series contains films produced by the railroad promotions department targeted for Eastern and Midwestern U.S. populations and intended to promote rail travel as the best method for viewing the physical beauty and cultural legacy of the Rocky Mountain West and Pacific Northwest. Many of the films portray the region as retaining the character of the "Old West" while incorporating the conveniences of modern life. Materials in this series provide insights into the changes and continuities of railroad advertising techniques spanning the 1920s through the early 1940s--particularly the employment of American Indian greeters, staging tour events at national parks and locations of historical interest, and the promotion of company-owned dude ranches. Additionally, these films preserve images of Rocky Mountain and Pacific Northwest landscapes before the industrial and housing development booms of the post-World War II period.
This series contains duplicate film reels for 128(LX):7, 128(LX):13, and 128(LX):18. Reels 128(LX):1, 128(LX):2, 128(LX):7, 128(LX):10, and 128(LX):20 are color film. Only reel 128(LX):14 has sound. Reel 128(LX):15 is a copy of the original at the Oregon Historical Society.
All collection VHS tapes are duplicates of film reels. For each instance of a one-to-one relationship, tapes were assigned a common reference number to the film reel original. These tapes correspond with film reels 128(LX):11, 128(LX):12, and 128(LX):13. One VHS tape contains transfers of several film reels. In this one instance the VHS tape was assigned a unique reference number, 128(LX):21.
This series includes photographs generated by the promotions department of the railway. These photographs appear to have been intended for promotional literature, particularly to highlight the agricultural potential of the high plains and river valleys along Northern Pacific Railway routes. The majority of these photographs were captured after the first major homesteading wave in the region (1890s through 1918) and during the disastrous cycles of high plains droughts that resulted in farm foreclosures and homesteader emigration (1919 through 1933). These photographs depicting agricultural abundance and opportunity present images in marked contrast to the tenor of agricultural studies and regional news reports during the period.
In addition, the photographs in this series present images of the towns and landscapes along the railway routes during the early stages of industrial production in the region--when the impact of railroad access is evidenced by transformations in agricultural and timber harvesting methods as well as the capacity of transporting high volume goods to distant markets. Though this series contains photographs spanning the Northern Pacific line, the images predominantly depict the farms and rail hub towns of Montana and Idaho during the 1920s and 1930s. Also included are some documentary images of Northern Pacific promotional exhibits which help to reveal additional context for how the department used the other photographs in this series.
Photographs of St. Ignatius Mission in St. Ignatius, Montana, church services, Father Louis Taelman [ordained in 1898, Father Louis Taelman spent years with the Crow, Spokane and Kalsipell Indian tribes as well as serving as president of Gonzaga University; he spent most of his life with the Flathead Indians at St. Ignatius], Father John J. Brown, and Native American parishioners including Chief Eneas Granjo, Peter Beaverhead, Chief Paul Charlo, and Joe Woodcock.
This collection contains correspondence, financial, legal, promotional, personal, and photographic records relating to the McGowan Commercial Company of Plains, Montana. Financial records comprise the majority of collection items. These materials provide insights into the challenges and successes of operating a rural general merchandising business as well as the early economic history of Plains, Montana.
This series includes two folders of general correspondence regarding McGowan Commercial Company store operations. These materials provide some insights into rural business practices and the early twentieth-century economy of Plains, Montana.
This series contains financial records from the McGowan Commercial Company including transaction invoices, account journals, expense records, daily transaction journals, check registers, and payroll records. The documents provide insights into the challenges and successes of operating a rural general merchandising business as well as the economic history of Plains, Montana.
This series contains a contract from 1911.
This series contains an article presenting a brief history of McGowan Commercial Company. The article was published in the November 1932 edition of The Plainsman, a local newspaper.
This series contains some records and memorabilia from James A. McGowan and Clifford H. Rittenour. Materials include an unsigned, undated draft copy of James A. McGowan's will. Clifford H. Rittenour was a manager of McGowan Commercial Company and became President after James McGowan's death. These items include records and memorabilia from Rittenour's student days at the University of Montana, Missoula.
This series includes fifteen photographs. Most of the photographs depict Plains, Montana, particularly the McGowan Mercantile Company store and hotel. Also included are five photographs documenting the procession to James A. McGowan's funeral, two photographs of Mr. and Mrs. Clifford H. Rittenour's 60th anniversary, an circa 1950s store anniversary, and images of the 1898 and 1901 football teams at the University of Montana.
This series includes four promotional calendars distributed by McGowan Commercial Company between 1920 and 1930. Each calendar has a large photograph including one of the Clark Fork River near Plains, Montana, a Herman Schnitzmeyer photo of buffalo, hunters with their deer, and Nick Lascu's sheep ranch near Plains. The calendars were transferred from Special Collections at Montana State University-Bozeman in September, 2009.
This collection contains typewritten documents, hand drawn maps, and photo negatives of mining camps in Montana. There is information regarding the purpose of the study and the importance of historic preservation of mining camps. Also included is information gathered from their study, including hand drawn maps of sites.
This series contains an 18-page typed list of the mines studied by Blazer and Wachsmuth and general information about each. The list also includes the main sources for the researcher's information. Also included is a 3-page typed statement about their research on Beaverhead National Forest entitled "An Examination of Historic Preservation of Mining Era Camps." There is a 16-page bibliography of sources of information on mines in Montana and the West, including a short typed statement given by the researchers on their findings. There is a short typed list of mining claims in the Coolidge, Montana, area and where to find them on microfilm.
This series also contains hand drawn maps of the ghost town site in what was Heckla, Montana, the Elkhorn Mine upper camp, the ghost towns of Coolidge and Elkhorn Mill, and the ghost town of Dark Horse. Detailed descriptions are written on the maps. There are typed explanations for the Hecla and Dark Horse maps. There is a typed description of Ajax Mine.
This series contains copies of Location Declaratory Statements for mill sites and tunnel sites. There are also Certificates of Location for mining claims. Most of these sites are located in Beaverhead County. The documents give the owner's name and the exact location of the sites.
This series contains a letter written to Rex Blazer and John Wachsmuth on May 20, 1977, by Robert W. Williams, forest supervisor for the Beaverhead National Forest. Williams notified them that the public comment period on the forest's management plan and draft environmental impact statement was extended. Blazer and Wachsmuth respond by urging Williams to consider cultural resources, like mining camps, when creating a forest plan. They tell Williams about the artifacts located in Beaverhead National Forest. They assert that the U.S. Forest Service would be violating a number of laws if they continued to ignore the significance of these historic sites.
This series contains negatives for 36 photographs of mining camps in unknown locations.
This collection includes two deeds for the exchange of land in Montana. The first deed, dated March 24, 1899, involves the sale of $4,007.98 worth of land in what was then called Deer Lodge County. The Northern Pacific Railway Company deeded the land to John W. Blair. The second deed, dated January 27, 1902, involves the sale of $3,000 worth of land in Powell County. Mary E. Mitchell, J. Paul Mitchell, William D. Mitchell and Mary M. Scanland deeded the land to Conrad Kohrs. Kohrs was called the “cattle king of Montana” and owned a 30,000-acre ranch near the city of Deer Lodge. He owned a large store in the 1860s at Last Chance Gulch, where Blair mined, that mostly sold beef to miners.
The Forest Service District 1 flume manual is a bound typescript containing four chapters, including a chapter on the advantages and disadvantages of flumes (a means of floating logs down mountainous terrain to sawmills or shipping points) by Supervisor Dorr Skeels with assistance from District Engineer J. P. Martin; a chapter on process of choosing locations for flumes and constructing them by E.M. Bonner, chief of Geography; data on hydrography by District Engineer E.W. Kramer with tables on stream flow by J.P. Martin; and blueprints on the construction of flumes by W.D. Starbird. E.W. Kramer also offered working examples in his report on two existing flumes, the Allen Flume near Anaconda, Montana, and Rochet Flume near St. Joe, Idaho. The manual is illustrated with original photographs.
Reminiscence of fighting a forest fire in the Kootenai Forest in northwestern Montana while working for the Civilian Conservation Corps during the Great Depression.
The collection consists of administrative, correspondence, financial, legal, publications, press clippings, and planning records generated and/or collected by the Missoula New Party during the organization’s existence. Materials in this collection document the organization’s main functions and activities, including electoral campaigns at the local and state level, as well as a number of issue-based campaigns directing at changing policy. The records in the collection document the relationship between the local chapter and the national New Party organization, local grassroots efforts to engage and grow a third political party movement, and significant issues in progressive politics during the 1990s.
This series contains materials related to the administrative activities of the Missoula New Party, including annual reports, outreach efforts, fundraising events, financial records, meeting minutes, training materials, media relations, membership, interns, student chapter documents, and governance documents. The Series has been divided into thirteen subseries based on specific administrative functions and activities.
This series contains materials generated in relation to campaigns organized around specific political issues. Materials include research materials, correspondence, meeting minutes, reports, and outreach materials. The series is divided into four subseries.
This series contains materials related to local and statewide elections, including city council, school board, and state representative elections. Materials include campaign literature, press clippings, and Missoula New Party Elections Committee documents.
This series contain publicity and published articles about the Missoula New Party and newsletters published by the Missoula New Party chapter. The Series has been divided into two Subseries.
This series contains materials documenting the relationship between the Missoula New Party chapter and the National New Party organization, including correspondence, annual meetings, national newsletters, and other state chapters.
This series contains two New Party button artifacts
The Cora Ball Scrapbook and Photograph Album contain clippings, newsletters, and ephemera from Ball's school years in Harlowton, Montana, as well photos of her later work and colleagues at the telephone office in Conrad, Montana. The collection also features some limited correspondence, images from Ball's travels to Glacier National Park and Alberta, Canada, and snapshots of family and friends in the late 1920s and early 1930s. Several pages in the photograph album document the Highline and Valier crews of the Montana Power Company at work in 1929 and 1930.
This is a collection of materials directly related to and largely produced during World War I, the "Great War." Included are official government publications and items from private organizations such as patriotic societies, pacifist and religious leagues, humanitarian associations and special interest groups. They represent a wide range of opinion from German, Danish, English, French, Swedish, Italian and Spanish sources. According to provenance documents, these pamphlets were used by peace negotiators for the Treaty of Versailles.
The collection includes a scrapbook, photographs, and two reminiscences of H. David Cogley's experiences in South Vietnam as a member of an engineer battalion in the 101st Airborne Division from 1969 to 1970.
This series contains two items. The first is a 57-page typed reminiscence of H. David Cogley's experiences in Vietnam. The reminiscence includes a description of airmobile combat engineer unit projects and daily life, in addition to original poetry by Cogley. The reminiscence also includes four appendices: a glossary of Vietnam terms, a hand-rendered map of South Vietnam, a firebase inspection checklist, and an after action report. The second is a revised and spiral bound version of the reminiscence entitled "Vietnam Journal, 1969-1970."
This series consists of a microfilmed scrapbook. The scrapbook is divided into three sections: newspaper clippings, poetry, and documents. The newspaper clippings include articles and photographs from The "Airborne Screaming Eagle Newsletter" for the 101st Airborne Division and the "Pacific Stars and Stripes" Newspaper. Many articles have a connection to the O'Reilly Fire Support Base or other 101st Airborne Division-related activities. The articles are undated, but appear to be arranged in chronological order.
The second section includes clippings of poetry from the "Pacific Stars and Stripes Newspaper," in addition to rough and final drafts of poems by H. David Cogley about Vietnam written between 1969 to 1970. The third section includes a hand-rendered map of South Vietnam with fire support base locations marked. There are also H. David Cogley's personal documents, including a transfer letter, an engineer checklist, duty list, and an after action report.
This series contains 50 frames of 35 mm flexible film negatives. These materials document some of David Cogley's experiences and travels during his Vietnam War military service. The images captured in these negatives provide insights into engineering practices and procedures applied to mobile military units during the conflict, equipment and base supplies for airborne units, daily base camp life for airborne personnel, and living conditions in cities near 101st Airborne Division central operations. Duplicate prints are available for viewing under photograph numbers 74-99 through 74-148.
The collection includes three letters, a post office notice, and blank invoices for or about Garnet, Montana residents, 1912-1938. The first two letters dated 1912 are addressed, respectively, to Mr. Pete Shipley and to Mr. John Hayes. The last, missing the first page, is not addressed or dated but is signed by Florence Wilmott. The postal notice is address to Postmaster, Garnet, Montana. The blank invoices are for a business in the name of S.E. Adams, Dealer in General Merchandise, Garnet, Montana.
The Stewart M. Brandborg Papers have been organized into eight series arranged by the periods in Brandborg’s professional career. The majority of the series have been further subdivided into an administrative subseries and a subject file subseries, reflecting the order in which they were maintained by Brandborg. The largest series in this collection relates to Brandborg's time with The Wilderness Society and includes planning documents, committee minutes, and extensive correspondence files.
Of particular interest within this collection are documents and congressional testimony related to the recommendation of new wilderness areas into the National Wilderness Preservation System signed into law in 1986, as well as documents related to the trans-Alaskan pipeline in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Also included are documents related to the Park Service's Citizen Participation Program which Brandborg helped develop and implement in the late 1970s.
This collection does not contain personal or family papers or photographs, although some of the files include correspondence from Stewart Brandborg's father, Guy M. Brandborg. The collection contains only a small number of materials related to the work Brandborg has done since his return to Montana from Washington D.C. in 1986.
This series contains subject files typically consisting of correspondence, memos, clippings, and/or notes.
This series is arranged into two subseries. Subseries 1: Administration includes Brandborg’s monthly reports, internal correspondence, and project reports. Subseries 2: Subject Files consists mainly of field notes on observations of big game and photographic records.
This series has been divided into two subseries. Subseries 1: Administration contains internal documents including budgetary information, meeting agendas and notes, and monthly reports. Subseries 2: Subject Files contains primarily correspondence, notes, clippings, congressional testimony, and speech information.
This series is arranged into two subseries. Subseries 1: Administration contains materials regarding staff meetings, budgets, notes, internal memos and correspondence, staff recruitment and planning, and The Wilderness Society Executive Committee meetings. Subseries 2: Subject Files contains correspondence, notes, clippings, congressional testimony, and speech information. Of particular interest are memos, notes, correspondence, and Congressional Testimony given on areas proposed for entry in the Wilderness Preservation System and the fight against the Trans-Alaskan Pipeline.
This series consists of subject files primarily containing correspondence, plan proposals, and notes.
This series contains information regarding the development and implementation of The National Park Service citizen participation program, including notes, internal memos and correspondence, budgetary planning materials, and work plans. Subject Files include correspondence, meeting notes, and training materials.
This series contains information regarding the development and implementation of the Conference Series including planning notes, memos, and correspondence, preliminary work plans, budgets, and evaluations.
Subject files consisting of correspondence, plans, proposals, and notes.
The collection contains meeting minutes covering various society activites from 1965 to 1971. It also has a significant portion of correspondence that includes discussion of the creation of a chapter of Phi Kappa Phi at the University of Montana (then Montana State University), membership invitations, invitations for speakers at society/university sponsored events, correspondence among officers, and communication with the national office from the 1950s to the 1970s. There are also membership lists, bylaws, handbooks, awards materials, programs for events, and news releases from the 1960s and 1970s.
This collection contains Christmas cards designed and illustrated by Helen Faick during her time in New York City, from 1936 to 1937, as well as an album that includes her art from throughout her career. The album was likely assembled by Helen Faick's sister, Frances Faick Walker. This collection also contains correspondence exchanged between Helen Faick and University of Montana English professor Harold G. Merriam and his family between 1966 and 1980. There is also a single letter between Helen Faick and Joran B. Paullin discussing the Merriams.
This collection includes Frederick Greenwood's school papers, college scrapbook, thesis, speeches and writings on finance, banking and the Federal Reserve System.
This collection contains materials from Emma Lommasson’s education, employment at the University of Montana, and post-retirement activities. These materials reflect her various roles and positions at the university and her dedication to its students, including through her many awards. The collection also includes photographs of the University of Montana's Angel Flight students.
This series includes a scrapbook documenting Lommasson's early educational achievements, documents relating to her time as a student and teacher at the University of Montana, materials and awards from her time volunteering with the University. Also included are scrapbooks for the Montana Fidelis Alpha Chapter of Alpha Delta Kappa for which Lommasson served in leadership roles, including as historian.
This series includes photographs ranging in date from Lommasson’s childhood through to her retirement from the University of Montana. The series includes photographs of Angel Flight students. Angel Flight was a women's drill team auxiliary of the Air Force Reserved Officer Training Corps.
This series contains ephemera from Lommasson's involvement in Angel Flight, her time spent volunteering at the University in multiple organizations, and from the event renaming what is now called the Lommasson Center at the University of Montana.
This collection includes four Strike Bulletins (numbers 32 through 34 and number 37) published in 1917 by the Metal Mine Workers' Union to update strikers on developments in mines and the activities of the Anaconda Copper Mining Company and other operating companies.
The collection consists of a short biographical outline of Jeffers prepared by Fay Jeffers, his daughter-in-law, for his nomination to the “Cowboy Hall of Fame” in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, which includes a record of his cattle brand. He was elected to the Hall in 1961 for his contributions to the west and the cattle industry. The collection also includes typescript transcriptions of letters from Mr. Jeffers to his wife and of business letters he received between 1871 and 1893. The letters concern cattle herding and personal matters.
This collection contains mostly correspondence relating to the need for more services and support for students with disabilities at the University of Montana. It includes several complaints filed by students at the university as well as internal memos addressing the lack of support for students. Two folders are currently restricted along with a letter written by a former student.
This collection consists of photocopies of photos, receipts, and correspondence laying out the changes and challenges that Ernest Millikan and his family met as they ran the Bitterroot Market in Missoula, Montana, from 1932-1987. The photos with captions record the changes in the market while correspondence, receipts and legal documents indicate other aspects of the small business. Also included in this collection are photos of Ernest Millikan and his wife, Mary Louise (Peat) Millikan, their obituaries, their home, children, and a Peat family tree.
The Robert H. (Ty) Robinson papers cover the date range 1896-2017. This collection includes school records, records from the Missoula Mercantile, various documents from organizations Robinson was involved in as a board member or volunteer, historic photographs of Missoula, and documents and ephemera from his time supporting and volunteering with the Boy Scouts. Materials in this collection were originally housed in binders labeled, "Miscellaneous memories to go through later," "Ty's Memory Book," and "The Merc."
The collection consists of two biographical sketches produced by an unknown author: one of Robert McIntosh Trafton and one of Herbert L. Dorr. Trafton founded the Malta, Montana, store later known as the Trafton-Dorr Company; Dorr was its second owner after Trafton retired in 1912. The sketches give not only details of these two mens’ accomplishments, but offer a brief sketch of life and commerce in Malta and Phillips county in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
This collection contains materials reflecting the diverse interests and activities of H. G. Merriam. Collection materials are predominantly personal and professional correspondence as well as working copies from Merriam's writing and editing endeavors. Significant subject categories include Merriam's service during World War I; long involvement with the Rhodes Scholars program; teaching and administrative activities at the university in Missoula; founding, editing, and leadership contributions to the Frontier and Midland journal; and activities to help create and guide the Montana Institute of the Arts.
Merriam was one of the seminal figures in fostering the literary traditions of Montana as well as the Northern Rocky Mountain region. Materials in this collection provide significant insights into the personal and professional relationships among literary and performance artists, academic leaders, politicians, and art patrons throughout the 20th Century, a period of tremendous cultural change regarding the mass distribution of popular culture materials and the western states' transition from cultural depository into a nationally recognized resource for arts and literature.
Materials in the Rhodes Scholars series lend first-hand insights into the infancy of the program and long-term efforts to retain a collegial approach in selecting new participants. The University of Montana series reveals the inner-workings of an institution transformed by the demographic, political, and cultural changes that occurred in the United States during the 20th Century. A particularly significant portion of this series documents activities surrounding Merriam's dismissal from the university in 1939, one of many academic freedom controversies that occurred around this time. The Frontier and Midland is recognized as the first regularly published literary anthology for Montana and the Northern Rocky Mountain region. Materials in the series record Merriam's commitment to establishing and promoting standards for folklore collection, editing, source acknowledgement, and publication. The series includes numerous sequences of correspondence between Merriam and many of the most influential figures in Montana and Western literature. The Montana Institute of the Arts series documents the founding and development of a significant grassroots arts and humanities program in the state. The Writings and Writings of Others series provide insights into Merriam's multi-faceted literary projects as well as his influence on contemporaries. The Photograph series includes a wealth of materials documenting the activities, gatherings, and publications of the Montana Institute of the Arts and other aspects of Merriam's career.
This series includes an assortment of material reflecting H.G. Merriam's early experiences, family activities, and personal interests. Biographical materials include a first grade report card from 1890, an early letter of recommendation written by Merriam's high school principal, draft resumes, testimonials, and a eulogy. Also included is an undated caricature of H. G. Merriam that was likely produced for a yearbook section. Clippings from various periods of Merriam's life lend insight into his professional activities and personal interests as well as his attention to family and friends. A small selection of financial and legal documents detail matters ranging from Merriam's personal book holdings to his charitable gifts, from family budgets to his first wife's final will and testament. This series also contains an undated proposal to construct a public mall at the intersection of Higgins and Broadway avenues in Missoula, Montana, including an architectural drawing drafted by Merriam.
This series contains an array of correspondence, both incoming and out-going. During 2003 reprocessing items of correspondence directly regarding subjects in other series were relocated to those series. Items include incoming correspondence written in French, advice on job searches, job offers, acceptance to graduate study programs, and organization of various writers' conferences. Prominent correspondents include federal elected officials, state political leaders, university presidents, nationally and regionally renowned authors, scientists, and significant figures in literary criticism. Among these correspondents are U.S. Senators Joseph Dixon, Mike Mansfield, James Murray, Thomas Walsh, and Burton Wheeler of Montana as well as university presidents C. Valentine Boyer of the University of Oregon, Dexter Keezer of Reed College, Ernest Holland of Washington State University, and James Morrill from the University of Minnesota. Correspondents also include literary figures Struthers Burt, Grace Stone Coates, Bernard DeVoto, Frank Hill, Joseph Kinsey Howard, Dorothy Johnson, Frank Bird Linderman, John Lomax, Norman MacLean, Archibald MacLeish, Ogden Nash, Theodore Spencer, Mildred Walker, and Robert Penn Warren as well as scientists Albert Einstein and Edwin Hubble.
General correspondence after 1954 is predominantly editorial exchanges between Merriam and budding authors. Most of these authors were Montana citizens seeking first-time publication of articles, short stories, or historical novels; however, these materials also include a few authors from other western states. Merriam's extensive correspondence with Lucia Mirrielees provides significant insight into their friendship and how Merriam helped to nurture her career as a writer and teacher at the University of Iowa's Bread Loaf School, Stanford University, and the University of Montana. Materials regarding Montana, The Magazine of Western History include several extended exchanges that provide interesting insights into the management and mission of a fledgling regional historical literature magazine. Some of these topics include a political imbroglio surrounding Senator Richard Neuberger's service on the Regional Board of Editors, organizational debates regarding the role of various advisory boards in editorial decision-making, and controversies generated by Michael Kennedy during his tenure as Editor.
The materials in this series document Merriam's service during WWI as an English instructor for French officers. The series includes several documents detailing Merriam's involvement with the Canadian wing of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), the organization that facilitated Merriam's wartime service.
This series includes records from Merriam's participation in the first group of Rhodes Scholars as well as his lifelong commitment to the program as a solicitor, trustee, and selection committee member.
This series documents Merrriam's long service to the university in Missoula as a professor and administrator. Much of the series consists of correspondence with university chancellors, administration, fellow professors and instructors, colleagues at other universities, students, and professional contract staff. Of particular note, the series includes an extensive sequence of correspondence and documents detailing the rationale employed to dismiss Merriam from his teaching position in 1939 as well as the campus and statewide response to the Board of Regents actions.
This series includes a large file of correspondence regarding Merriam's retirement from the University of Montana in 1954. Most of the correspondents are former students expressing appreciation and admiration for his years of service and quality instruction. Notable correspondents include D'Arcy McNickle, Weldon Niva, Arthur Sanderson. S. Rae Logan, and Leslie Fiedler. The series also includes documents regarding Merriam's activities to create memorial funds to benefit university students and preserve the memory of his teaching colleagues. Lucia Mirrielees Memorial Fund Correspondence includes a memorial written about Edith Mirrielees, Lucia's sister. This document is retained in this folder as a reflection of Dr. Merriam's placement with such materials. Materials are arranged by subject, then chronologically.
The materials in this series include correspondence, draft article and short story manuscripts, and publication materials from the Frontier and Midland journal. The Frontier and Midland is recognized as the first regularly published literary anthology for Montana and the Northern Rocky Mountain region. Materials in the series record Merriam's commitment to establishing and promoting standards for folklore collection, editing, source acknowledgement, and publication. The series includes numerous submissions and sequences of correspondence between Merriam and Montana and Western authors, including Struthers Burt, Grace Stone Coates, Vardis Fisher, Helen Addison Howard, Dorothy Johnson, Frank Bird Linderman, Bob Marshall, Ezra Pound, and Paul Tracy.
This series includes materials generated and collected by Merriam during his tenure with the Montana Institute of the Arts. Series documents detail efforts to establish and expand the organization as a grassroots arts and humanities program in the state. The Montana Institute of the Arts helped create avenues for fostering and promoting artistic expression by Montanans who often lacked access to the established outlets.
This series includes correspondence, draft manuscripts, hand-written notes, and publication materials from the documents Merriam wrote himself or edited to such an extent they became, in essence, his own work. The series provides insights into Merriam's multi-faceted literary projects as well as his influence on contemporaries. The Moxon manuscript and correspondence materials include correspondence with Moxon's descendants as well as some of the most notable English literary figures of the mid 19th Century.
This series includes correspondence and published materials gathered by Merriam out of personal interest or submitted to Merriam both as gifts and as requests for editorial feedback. This series contains extensive correspondence and a portion of text material regarding The Galloping Swede, by Hugo Aronson and Lou O. Brockman. Merriam provided extensive editorial advice on the manuscript through his correspondence with Brockman and extended assistance in contacting potential publishers. Merriam's involvement with the manuscript remained informal throughout the project and received only a note of acknowledgement in the published volume.
This series includes awards and honors received by Merriam during his long career.
This series includes four bound scrapbooks and photo albums. Most materials are from the early years of Merriam's life and professional career. Volumes include numerous loose materials. Researchers are asked to exhibit particular care in viewing the materials in this series.
This series includes photographs collected throughout Merriam's life but the majority of materials document the activities, gatherings, and publications of the Montana Institute of the Arts. Other photographs can be located in the photo albums and scrapbooks described in Series XI.
This collection contains papers which represent Meyer Chessin’s education and career; these include correspondence, publications, research materials, teaching papers, service papers, and some audio-visual materials.
Series I, Correspondence, predominately contains professional correspondence and a small amount of personal correspondence. Correspondents include colleagues, publishers, politicians, government officials, scholarly organizations and businesses. Correspondence is arranged alphabetically by correspondent and chronologically by date.
Series II, Writings and Publications, contains scholarly research, civic and environmental publications. Over fifty publications were described at the item-level; the remaining publications and writings are unorganized. The organized publications in this series are arranged alphabetically.
Series III, Teaching Papers, contains papers from both undergraduate and graduate courses Chessin taught. These include lecture notes, exams, quizzes, reading materials, lab manuals, experiments, and correspondence regarding seminar speakers. There is one linear foot of papers, reports and assignments students prepared for Chessin’s courses.
Series IV, University and Academic Service Papers, contains papers from Chessin’s academic and University service. It is divided into two subseries: Subseries 1, General Service Papers and Subseries 2, Restricted Service Papers.
Subseries 1, General Service Papers, contains correspondence, reports, newsletters and meeting minutes. Chessin’s academic service materials include papers from scholarly organizations focused on plant pathology and photobiology. There are also materials from national and international conferences and symposiums. University service papers include: Faculty Senate and committee meeting minutes and correspondence; University and Botany department correspondence, memos and curriculum reviews; Chessin’s service record; formal requests for sabbatical leave; and University news releases noting Chessin’s achievements. The faculty committees represented in the subseries are the Budget and Policy Committee, the Executive Committee, the Faculty Benefits Committee, the Faculty Research Advisory Committee and the Hazards Radiation Committee. One folder contains correspondence and records of Joseph Kramer, an early Botany faculty member and dates from 1930-1977. This subseries is organized alphabetically.
Subseries 2, Restricted Service papers, contains restricted papers from the Faculty Appeals Committee, student advisees, faculty searches and an age discrimination complaint. This series is restricted.
Series V, Research Papers, contains articles, correspondence, notes, research data, grant and fellowship applications and research proposals and reports. Chessin’s research subjects included cactus viruses and hosts, photobiology, photo reactivation, selenium, spiderwort and radiation. His records regarding foreign travel and foreign research collaboration are included in this collection. This series also contains research Chessin completed for his doctorial dissertation. This series is arranged alphabetically.
Series VI, Civic and Environmental Service Papers, contains articles, clippings, correspondence, reports, newsletters, meeting minutes, and reports about social and environmental topics. These topics include: militarism, nuclear weapons, radiation, disarmament, hazardous waste, herbicides and pesticides, solid waste management and recycling. Records of the Western Montana Scientists Committee for Public Information (WMSCPI) and the solid waste workshops it sponsored are included in this series. This series contains correspondence with politicians and government officials regarding military and environmental topics. This collection also contains Chessin’s preparatory notes and articles for his testimony about 2,4,5-T before the EPA, Office of Hazardous Materials Control. This series is arranged alphabetically.
Series VII, College Papers, contains papers from Chessin’s time as a student at UCLA and UC-Berkeley. These include class notes, papers, drawings, research notes. This series is organized alphabetically.
Series VIII, Miscellaneous Papers, contains unidentified handwritten notes, clippings, a map, a calendar, and supplier information. This series is organized alphabetically.
Series IX, Photographs and Slides, contains photographs, negatives, photographic slides and specimen slides. Subjects include Cactus Virus, BARD, King Cole’s Hole, herbicide’s effects on animals and plant species at an unidentified botanical garden. There are audio cassettes that accompany the King Cole’s Hole slides and herbicide’s effects on animals negatives.
This collection includes photocopies and originals of materials related to the construction and daily business of early Fort Missoula. The collection also includes photocopies of several reports on the travels of the 25th Infantry Bicycle Corps in 1896 and 1897.
This series includes a photocopies of Fort Missoula letterbooks from 1877 with correspondence about the military's activities from constructing the Fort to defending Montana Territory civilians and a microfilm copy of a Fort Missoula letterbook from Jan. 2, 1883 to May 9, 1884. Other materials relate to construction and supplies.
This series includes detailed reports on the Bicycle Corps trips that include such information as weather, road or trail conditions, specific daily routes, equipment conditions, and the condition of the men in the Corps.
The collection consists of a single 22-page biographical sketch of Berthold Richard Albin compiled by Vada Keller Albin in approximately 1959. Contents include a family tree back to 1851 that shows his German roots; a typescript copy of Mr. Albin’s 1953 obituary from the Billings Gazette; and assorted Albin family information.
This collection includes organizational papers, correspondence files, research materials, reference reports, and newspaper clippings generated and collected by Steve Waldron during his tenure in the Montana House of Representatives. Correspondence in this collection represents both incoming and outgoing materials ranging across a spectrum of legislative topics and includes constituents, elected officials, state employees, legislative staff members, and professional researchers. The research files in this collection often contain marked-up or final copies of state legislation, handwritten notes, and testimonial transcriptions. Materials in this collection present insights into the internal workings of the Montana State Legislature in the years following adoption of the 1972 Montana Constitution, Waldron's representative and legislative approach, and prominent issues of concern during the time period.
This series consists of one daily appointment book kept by Steve Waldron during the 1981 Montana Legislative Session.
This series contains incoming and outgoing correspondence ranging across a spectrum of legislative topics. Correspondents include constituents, elected officials, state employees, legislative staff members, and professional researchers. Topics include action requests, legislative strategies, and inquiries on behalf of constituents. These materials provide insights into the internal workings of the Montana Legislature in the years following passage of the current State Constitution and Steve Waldron's approach to his legislative responsibilities.
This series contains research files collected by Steve Waldron during his tenure in the Montana State Legislature and are organized by subject (following his original headings). Files in this series contain a mix of legislative bills (both marked-up and final copies), Waldron's handwritten notes, transcriptions of testimony, and legislative staff reports. Most materials relate directly to bills before the Legislature (often bills that received attention across several sessions); however, some files concern topics of interest to Steve Waldron that never reached the level of formal legislative introduction. These materials provide insights into the internal workings of the Montana Legislature and Steve Waldron's focal issues.
This series contains formal reports, usually from state administrative offices, that Steve Waldron collected during his tenure in the Montana State Legislature.
This series contains clippings from Montana newspapers that Steve Waldron collected during his tenure in the Montana State Legislature. Most of the clippings reference bills before the Legislature, issues related to legislation, and the Montana House of Representatives' operations. Some of the clippings directly reference Steve Waldron as a legislative member. From 1979 through 1983 clippings document issues of both legislative and personal interest to Mr. Waldron.
The collection contains a ration book from World War II and military photographs, especially from the U.S. Signal Corps, 1864 to 1959. There are photographs of Apache Indians from around the 1880s, executions in Saudi Arabia, ca. 1960, and the University of Montana, ca. 1990. It also contains Claire Rhein's research files on Fort Owen and Major John Owen.
The series contains a War Ration Book that belonged to Leo Rhein, Jr. while he was at the County Hospital in Helena, Montana.
The series contains photographs collected by the Rheins, many of which are official U.S. Army photographs. The U.S. Signal Corps is significantly represented in the series, including photographs of officers, signal towers, balloons, and other military equipment. There are a number of photographs from the 41st Infantry in Fort Lewis, Washington, circa 1940-1941, including images of military equipment testing, soldiers training, and an aerial view of the compound. The collection also contains military photographs from Europe and the Philippines during WWI, WWII, and the Korean Conflict, 1951. A smaller part of the series contains photographs of executions in Saudi Arabia, circa 1960, Apache Indians, circa 1880s, and the University of Montana campus, circa 1990s.
The series contains Claire Rhein's research files on Fort Owen and genealogical information on Major John Owen. It includes her correspondence with other Owen family researchers.
This collected information on the history of The University of Montana-Missoula mascot includes Kaimin clippings, press releases, Sentinel yearbook photos and information, telephone interview notes, photographs, and a timeline. The information covers the era of live bear cub mascots and continues into later costumed bear mascots.
This collection includes a broad range of correspondence and informal financial records for David H. Linebarger from 1877 through 1909; correspondence and laundry account records for Dora Linebarger from 1908 up to 1930; minimal correspondence, an autograph album and a document for Walter L. Linebarger; an autograph album belonging to Maud Linebarger; a recipe and general notebook for Della Meyers; W.P.A. documents and correspondence regarding Elmer C. Linebarger's work as a farmer, commodities clerk, and finally as an employee of the War Department with a time span from 1935 through 1945; and a wide range of photographs likely from at least 1875 through 1910, most of which are unlabeled.
This series includes personal and business correspondence, legal documents regarding mining claims and water rights, ephemera, and a quantity of pocket-sized notebooks used primarily as relatively informal records of income and expenses for various mining ventures. The correspondence and legal documents have been arranged chronologically as a group after which the pocket-sized notebooks are similarly ordered.
This series includes personal correspondence from a doctor and from Dora Linebarger's son and husband, a homestead patent from 1923, and sewing account books from 1908 through 1923. The group is arranged in chronological order.
This series includes one letter from 1926, one auto repair receipt from 1929, and one land sale contract from 1931 arranged in chronological order.
This series includes farm relief correspondence from 1935 and 1936, extensive correspondence and directives from the WPA of Montana, the Montana Relief Commission, and other organizations involved in distribution of goods to needy families during the Great Depression, Linebarger's appointment as a Department of Defense civilian employee in 1942, and a small amount of miscellaneous materials such as a family letter, birth information, and news clippings.
This series includes a single notebook with recipes and miscellaneous notes.
This series includes family photographs as well as individual portrait photos covering a span of time from approximately 1875 to as late as the 1940s. Most photos are not labeled with the names of the subjects, and only one is dated.
The collection consists of shipping bill receipts for the company from 1892 to 1895. Each receipt records the date, customer name and shipping address, and goods received. The company mostly served customers in Wyoming.
The records consist of the paper files from the library administration, library directors, staff association, and Archives. Organization, order, and completeness vary widely by administration. There are no records that predate the Buckhous administration.
Materials include contracts, annual reports, meeting materials, holdings records, orders, budgets, grants, and building information.
This collection contains early correspondence between members of the Railsback family, the personal correspondence of Edna Railsback, and miscellaneous papers, clippings, and notes from 1909-1923. Jessie Railsback’s letters home offer insight into early student life at the University of Montana, including dorm life and sorority membership. Correspondence to Edna Railsback from various friends and family covered general topics such as daily happenings or recent news
The typed diary transcription describes Van Buren's life with his family in the Rattlesnake Valley and Missoula, Montana, including the weather, daily work, interactions with neighbors, and the status of Rattlesnake Creek.
This collection contains correspondence including both letters and postcards, 1975-1980; publications by Merrill K. Riddick of the Journal of Applied Human Ecology,1966-1973; a short biography about Merrill K. Riddick, 1976; papers from his gubernatorial campaign of 1968 and U.S. senate campaign of 1972 and copies of statement of candidacy for presidential campaign of 1980 and 1984; newspaper clippings, 1975-1988; a dedication speech for a bust of Charles A. Lindbergh, 1975; and three photos, 1980.
This series includes letters from Merrill K. Riddick to Marge Page of Phillipsburg, Montana, and one partial letter to Ms. Mary Ann Wallace. There is also a Rocky Mountain Mineral Law Newsletter dated September 1977 as an attachment to a letter. There are multiple postcards from Merrill K. Riddick to Marge Page tracking his travels during the 1976 and 1980 presidential campaign. There are two postcards that are not from Riddick but are addressed to Marge Page and speak of Riddick.
This series includes five copies of the Journal of Applied Human Ecology. Two copies were dated August 2, 1966; two copies are dated February 1970; and one copy is dated May 1970; double copies contain hand written corrections or additional information. Also included is a short biography of Riddick written in 1976.
This series includes campaign papers Riddick used in 1968 and 1972. It also includes copies of Riddick's statement of candidacy for the 1980 and 1984 presidential elections.
This series contains remarks by Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller at a Charles Lindbergh bust dedication. It also includes newspaper clippings from Montana, Annapolis, Maryland, and Washington D.C. A 1987 letter from Riddick's sister, Ruth, to Marge Page accompanies an article. Five obituaries are included in this series.
This series includes three photographs with a letter to Marge Page, March. Two photos are of Riddick, one in Fort Lauderdale, FL, and one in Annapolis, Maryland, in front of Riddick's sister's house. One photo is of a Fort Lauderdale residential street.
The School of Forestry photo album includes photos of students, instructors, the Forester’s Ball, and the1938 Senior trip to a variety of locales including Plains, Glacier National Park, Nine Mile, Lolo, Custer National Forest, and the Gallatin Forest in Montana as well as a few places in Oregon, Washington, and California.
This collection contains eleven typed poems written by Jo Stepanoff, some with handwritten notes indicating if and when they were to be published. The poems entitled “Guadalupe,” “The Last Conqueror,” “Paradox,” “Perspective,” and “Sunset at Mazatlan” were published. “Sunset at Mazatlan,” won second prize in the state Modern Language Association contest in 1958.
The collection contains Redinger's research for his master's thesis The Civilian Conservation Corps as a tool of the National Park Service: The Development of Glacier and Yellowstone National Parks, 1933-1942. Correspondence with former Civilian Conservation Corps members, Civilian Conservation Corps reports, photographs, statistical information on the camps, articles, and an oral history make up the bulk of the collection.
This series consists mainly of correspondence that Redinger conducted with former Civilian Conservation Corps members from Glacier and Yellowstone parks. Redinger also corresponded with Glacier park historian Bill Sharp. In the correspondence, the members of the Civilian Conservation Corps wrote of their experiences within the parks.
The series consists of the materials that Redinger used in his research of the Civilian Conservation Corps camps in Glacier and Yellowstone parks as well as general Civilian Conservation Corps information. The materials used were maps, statistical information, journal articles, an enrollees Civilian Conservation Corps handbook, records, reports, photos, and clippings. The information that Redinger collected is all facsimiles. There are no original manuscripts. The photographs are also copied.
The series contains an excerpt of a diary written in 1933 by Joseph Mauceri. The other writing is a paper that Redinger wrote for a graduate course at the University of Montana entitled Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Tree Army in the "Land of Shining Mountains." The paper was a precursor to his master's thesis.
The collection contains biographical information, a small portion of Maury's correspondence about his works, press releases and a catalog of his published works, the original copies of the vast majority of his published compositions and some unpublished ones, and a posthumous audio recording of some major performances of his works. The collection documents the work of a mid-twentieth-century composer who worked in a variety of contexts: Hollywood, music education, and serious composition.
This series contains biographical descriptions of Lowndes Maury, one promotional piece and two different obituaries.
This file contains a small portion of Lowndes Maury's correspondence, some general exchanges from late in his life and a file regarding the premiere of his Concerto for English Words and Percussion.
This series contains one folder of speeches, press releases, and a catalog of Lowndes Maury's compositions.
This series consists of Maury's compositions for a variety of instruments and ensembles. All are either manuscript originals of scores or the master copies of ensemble parts. The series contains the majority of Maury's published output, as well as other works that may not have been published or performed.
These audio recordings are collection of Lowndes Maury's works recorded during his lifetime. In 2001, these recordings were digitally re-mastered and put on compact discs by his daughter, Elizabeth H. Maury.
This collection consists primarily of photographs of the Bitterroot Valley in Montana between 1905 and 1925, including the Bitterroot Highway, the Club House at Charlo Heights, the Stevensville Mercantile, and Sleeping Child Hot Springs. Many of the photos were taken by J. W. Johnson, a photographer in Hamilton, Montana, a few are by Herman Schnitzmeyer who worked for the Northern Pacific Railway, and the remainder are not credited. The collection also includes two photos of St. Ignatius, Montana.
The collection consists of a selection of Kirkwood's published and unpublished writings, mostly on the botany of Montana and Idaho. Particular areas of focus are the Selway and Flathead rivers and the Coeur d'Alene, Kaniksu, and Lolo national forests. One manuscript provides insight into the national forests and fire control policies during the summer of 1910. He moved around the region by train, stage, saddle horse, and on foot, and so provides insight into travel conditions. His published writings appeared in a variety of regional and national publications, including Northwest Science, National Geographic, The Scientific Monthly, and The Journal of Home Economics.
This Series includes the original typescripts for a number of Kirkwood's publications. The writings all relate to the botany of the Rocky Mountains of Montana and Idaho, particularly that of the Selway River, the South Fork of the Flathead River, and the Coeur d'Alene, Kaniksu, and Lolo forests in Montana and Idaho. The manuscript titled Notes on Observations in National Forests and Elsewhere During the Summer of 1910 includes photographs and commentary on United States Forest Service policies. One undated radio address also describes and promotes the Department of Botany at the University of Montana. One paper appears to be the work of a student named Kirk Robertson, not Kirkwood.
This series includes articles published by Kirkwood. Most of the articles are reprints. Many of the articles focus on the Rocky Mountain area, but a few articles discuss tropical botany and the importance of teaching botany.
Evelyn Rhoden was employed by the Federal Writers' Project of the Works Project Administration, and was assigned to collect and report on the history and current status of Musselshell, Golden Valley, and Meagher Counties in central Montana during the late 1930s and early 1940s. The collection consists of Rhoden’s handwritten and typed notes, which are especially rich in the ranching history of the area, and include transcriptions from county records and newspapers as well original notes on interviews with area residents and homesteaders and completed surveys generated by the WPA. The collection also contains correspondence and assignments from the Federal Writers' Project that offer insight into the organization and goals of the New Deal project.
This collection consists of notes about the origins of geographical place names given to locations (including creeks, gulches, springs, mountains, mountain ranges, canyons, buttes and other geological features) within the following national forests in Idaho and Montana: Absaroka National Forest (Absaroka Wilderness Area, Gallatin National Forest), Beaverhead National Forest, Bitterroot National Forest, Cabinet National Forest (Cabinet Wilderness Area, Kootenai National Forest, Lolo National Forest and Kaniksu National Forest), Clearwater National Forest, Custer National Forest, Deerlodge National Forest, Flathead National Forest, Gallatin National Forest, Helena National Forest, Kaniksu National Forest, Kootenai National Forest, Lewis and Clark National Forest, Nezperce National Forest (Nez Perce National Forest), and St. Joe National Forest.
A notation on the documents indicates these notes were copies from cards held by each Forest in 1942.
This collection contains sketchy coverage of a lone homesteader's life in extreme northwestern Montana during the years 1913-1964.
This collection contains outgoing correspondence and short stories written by Gertrude Hutchinson Merritt and a brief biography of her life written by Richard L. Merritt. The material describes Gertrude Merritt’s travels and work in New York, Europe, Latin America, and San Francisco as well as her political views, her thoughts on writing, books, and authors, and the state of her life. A few of the letters are addressed to Ernst Boas, who was a lover of Romana Javitz and the son of Franz Boas.
The collection contains reports, correspondence, rosters, personal papers, oral histories, photographs, and moving images documenting the history of aerial fire management. The material in the collection was created by the association itself, by former smokejumpers, or by the U.S. Forest Service. The earliest materials include documentation of the development of parachute jumping during the F Studies – Aerial Control Parachute Jumping experiments of the late 1930s and early 1940s by the U.S. Forest Service. The collection also contains: fire reports from various years including the investigation report for the Mann Gulch fire in Montana (1949); newsletters and magazines published by the National Smokejumper Association; collected interviews, obituaries, and profiles of former and/or pioneer smokejumpers; and numerous magazine and newspaper articles related to the development and history of smokejumping and aerial fire management.
This collection also includes extensive moving image materials. The bulk of these materials are from the documentary Smokejumpers: Firefighters from the Sky (also called The History of Smokejumping: Firefighters from the Sky), produced by Stevan Smith for the National Smokejumper Association. These moving image materials are housed on 8mm, betacam, Mini-DV, VHS, and DVD; they include interviews with smokejumpers and both contemporary and historic footage of fires and training exercises. Additional oral histories conducted by the NSA with current and former smokejumpers are also available in the collection on DVD and many include complete transcripts. Finally, personal papers of individual smokejumpers contribute correspondence, photographs, newsclippings, and the personal journals. Collections related to individual smokejumpers are predominantly from smokejumpers who lived and/or trained in Missoula, Montana.
This series primarily contains copies of the organization’s newsletter, Static Line, and their magazine, Smokejumper Quarterly. It also includes a report of the Long Range Plan of the organization written in 2002 as well as reunion materials.
This subseries contains reports, memos, correspondence, and reunion materials generated by the National Smokejumpers Association. There are also negatives of photos from the August 11, 1986 reunion at Camp Paxson at Seeley Lake, Montana, some images are identified.
This subseries contains items published and distributed by the National Smokejumpers Association including their quarterly magazine, trail maintenance reports, and newsletter.
This series contains materials that relate to the history of smokejumping.
This subseries contains materials documenting a range of topics related to aerial fire management. Materials include rosters, regulations, training manuals, and fire reports. These materials specifically include copies of the investigation of the Mann Gulch fire and the fire investigation report of the South Canyon Fire on Storm King Mountain. Materials are arranged chronologically.
This subseries contains materials created by the United States Forest Service about firefighting, smokejumping, and smokejumpers. This subseries is arranged chronologically.
This subseries contains overviews and timelines of smokejumping history. Items include articles, booklets, chronologies, a conference paper, and general histories of several regional smokejumping stations including the North Cascades Smokejumper Base, the California Smokejumpers and the Siskiyou smokejumper base. Materials are arranged chronologically.
This series contains materials relating to individual smokejumpers including personal narratives, interviews, biographies, obituaries, and photographs. These materials are arranged alphabetically.
This subseries contains the personal stories of smokejumpers.
This subseries contains collections of personal narratives of smokejumpers assembled for publication and distribution.
This subseries contains obituaries, biographies, and other general information about former smokejumpers including newspaper clippings and articles. These materials are arranged alphabetically.
This subseries contains photographs of various smokejumpers and their equipment. These materials are arranged chronologically.
This series contains various audiovisual materials including Wilderness Survival Tapes, photos transferred to CD.
This series consists of video components and detailed video logs from the documentary Smokejumpers: Firefighters from the Sky (also called The History of Smokejumping: Firefighters from the Sky) produced by Stevan Smith for the National Smokejumper Association. Raw footage includes interviews with smokejumpers and video logs include complete transcripts of these interviews.
This subseries contains video logs that include transcripts of interviews and brief descriptions of raw footage with timecodes from the making of Smokejumpers: Firefighters from the Sky.
This subseries contains raw footage on betacam and VHS dubs of the originals, log books in previous subseries provide an index to the materials from the making of Smokejumpers: Firefighters from the Sky.
This subseries contains additional source videos for Smokejumpers: Firefighters from the Sky not included in the log books from Subseries 1 including various interview duplicates on DVD.
This subseries contains film collected but not used in the making of Smokejumpers: Firefighters from the Sky.
This subseries contains research and contracts related to the making of Smokejumpers: Firefighters from the Sky.
This series contains interviews of smokejumpers for the There I Was! project conducted by John Driscoll.
This series contains personal papers of former smokejumpers.
Herman Ball was a smokejumper who jumped the 1950 and 1951 seasons in Missoula. He was recruited by the Central Intelligence Agency for their operations in Taiwan; he and other smokejumpers trained Chinese nationalist troops in survival tactics and parachuting. This subseries contains photographs of Ball's activities in Taiwan in the 1950s as well as a photograph of Marana Army Air Field in Arizona, a CIA base of operations during the Vietnam War.
Robert J. Brennan was a pioneer smokejumper in the summer of 1941. This collection contains photographs, journals, and a jump log from the Nine Mile camp in western Montana as well as journals from Brennan's previous Forest Service posts.
Lyle Grenager was a smokejumper out of Missoula, Montana from 1946 to 1951. He was recruited by the Central Intelligence Agency in 1951 to assist with their covert operations in Taiwan to train a resistance force of Nationalist Chinese troops. This subseries includes photos from Grenager's time in Taiwan including playing on the basketball team for the CIA's front company, Western Enterprises, Inc., and meeting the president of the Republic of China, Chiang Kai-shek.
Ed J. Kurowski was a smokejumper who jumped his rookie season in Missoula, Montana in the summer of 1961. Kurowski was from Green Bay, Wisconsin and studied forest engineering at the University of Wisconsin. This subseries contains the collective memoir of many smokejumpers who rookied in 1961 in Missoula, Montana; Ed Kurowski compiled, edited, and authored the memoir.
Jack Mathews was a smokejumper in Missoula, Montana in the summer of 1948. He was recruited by the Central Intelligence Agency and spent his entire career with them. This subseries contains correspondence written by Mathews concerning various aspects of his service as a military advisor in Laos in the late 1950s, clippings of an article he wrote, photographs, and various other correspondence and notes. There is also a detailed letter he wrote to John MacLean about his article on the smokejumpers at Mann Gulch.
Lloyd A. "Chuck" Pickard was a smokejumper in Missoula, Montana who trained in the summer of 1948. He was a squadleader out of Nine Mile in the summer of 1949 and was supposed to jump on the Mann Gulch fire near Helena, Montana, but traded places with Bill Hellman. This subseries includes photographs, Mann Gulch research materials, materials collected by Jack Mathews, and smokejumper reunion materials.
This series contains folders of material by or about fifteen smokejumpers. All folders include a 'submittal form' documenting contents and providing context. The materials were compiled and donated for inclusion in the NSA collection by John Driscoll. Driscoll has indicated jump years and base on each folder.
The collection includes correspondence, clippings, and photographs, 1930-1972. The clippings are from Missoula County High School and University of Montana drama productions, 1930 to 1934, including programs, production notes, and Montana Kaimin clippings. The collection includes photographs taken of Melvin Hedine and his family and of University of Montana drama productions. There are also photographs presumably taken during Hedine's career in the armed services around the 1940s or 1950s. The collection also includes samples of Hedine's display photography and photographs taken by Hedine during his laboratory career, c. 1960s.
The series contains an illustrated letter from Melvin to his sister, Viola, while he was in the armed services, a letter of recommendation from an art institution, 1952, and two letters pertaining to a patent on an invention by Hedine, 1972.
The series contains clippings from Missoula County High School and University of Montana drama productions. The clippings include newspaper articles from the Montana Kaimin, production notes and one set diagram. The bulk of the clippings are programs from productions in which Hedine was involved.
Most of the photographs in the series are from University of Montana Masquers productions in which Hedine was involved. The photographs of stage sets labeled "designed by Dutch," refer to Hedine. There are also two professional photographs of studio films. The armed services photographs were presumably taken by Melvin Hedine during World War II. There are photographs of Bob Hope and other performers taken during U.S.O. performances and of Melvin Hedine in uniform. There are also photographs presumably of display advertising. Some of these are in color.
The collection consists of annual reports of the J. Neils Lumber Company and the annual reports of the Montana Light & Power Company. Both series of reports contain information on profits, losses, equipment depreciation, and property held by the companies.
This series contains annual financial reports of the J. Neils Lumber Company. The reports contain information on profits, losses, equipment depreciation, and property held by the company. The reports were held in the Portland, Oregon, offices of the company.
This series contains annual financial reports of the Montana Power & Light Company. The reports contain information on profits, losses, equipment depreciation, and property held by the company.
This collection consists of a scrapbook of samples from the School of Journalism press printed from 1932-1936.
The Alice Lear autograph album includes often poetic good wishes from her family and friends in Missouri and Montana, 1889-1894. The family includes her father, mother, sister, in-laws, and niece. The towns listed as the writer's locations include Greensburg and Baring, Missouri, as well as Deer Lodge and Corvallis, Montana. It also includes a single letter addressed to "Dear Children" and signed "your Father," 1884.
The Stan Healy Photographs and Papers consist primarily of photographs and materials from Healy’s career as a photo journalist and Missoula City Council member. The collection also contains a small amount of personal photography and correspondence, notes from Healy’s time at the University of Montana and his Army Air Force training during World War II, and materials related to his interest in cross-dressing.
Healy's photographs document Missoula, Montana, mostly from the 1940s through the 1970s. As a news photographer, he tended to document local news events, including automobile and railroad accidents, fires, and other tragedies. He also photographed changes in Missoula's built environment, including building construction and demolition and street work. Other favored subjects are parades, law enforcement, fire protection personnel, and the University of Montana. Several sweeping views and aerials of Missoula document the change and growth of the city.
Surrounding western Montana towns, including Bonner and Taft, are also documented in the collection. There are a considerable number of images of Northern Pacific Railway and Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad engines.
The collection contains a number of images taken by other photographers. Some predate Healy and may have come from the Missoulian photo morgue or from the studio of Frank Ingalls. Others are from fellow photographers John Forssen, Charles F. Buls (Healy’s maternal grandfather), A. Baker, H. English (of Wallace, Idaho), John Swartz, J.W. Meier, R.V. Nixon, R.H. McKay, and Norma Forsyth.
Series I features photographs taken by Stan Healy during the course of his career as a journalist and freelance photographer for the Missoulian and other newspapers as well as his tenure as a Missoula City Council alderman. Most of photos in this series were shot in and around Missoula, Montana, and document local news events.
Series II features photographs in various formats (35mm negatives, 4x5” negatives, slides, and prints) of Stan Healy’s time in the service during World War II, his parents and friends, personal travels, as well as additional career photographs, some of which duplicate material from Series I. It also includes postcards and letters from Healy’s parents and friends, notebooks from his university days and Air Force training, certificates of achievement, documents from his work as a Missoula City Council member, and original writings on topics of personal interest.
35mm negatives were stored rolled in film cannisters for decades and are heavily curled. These photos were not assigned individual photo numbers, but printed contact sheets are available in subseries 2.
Series III features 37 glass plate negatives of the Stan Healy’s maternal grandparents, Charles and Cecilia Buls, and their children, including Healy’s mother Emma. Charles and Cecilia immigrated to Missoula, Montana from Germany in the 1890s, where Charles worked as a railroader for the Northern Pacific Railway and as a prospector. He later gained principle control of the Tarbox Mine on Packer Creek. In addition to the family photos, a few glass plate negatives in this series document Glacier and Yellowstone National Parks.
The collection contains the records of the Phi Sigma Society, Lambda Chapter of the University of Montana, from its inception until the mid-1960s, probably when the society became inactive. Included are records of membership, meeting minutes, finances, and publications from the national organization of the Phi Sigma Society. Part of the collection contains petitions for charters that were received from colleges and universities across the country.
This collection includes eight Valiton family photographs with subjects including Henry G. Valiton and his wife, Mary Rhea Valiton, their son Fred Valiton, grandson Donald Valiton, Dr. Thomas James, and Will Cave, all of Montana, 1890-1914.
This is a collection of published materials produced by the Rural Institute. Items include newsletters, reports, pamphlets, and instructional manuals. The reports were often prepared jointly with other entities that offered community services to persons with disabilities. The collection also contains copies of the Rural Institute’s Educational Home Model Project child care booklets.
The bulk of this collection is correspondence, photocopied documents, news articles, interviews and research notes related to the arrival of Ursuline nuns, especially Mother Amadeus, in Montana in 1884 and their work at missions on the Indian reservations. The collection also contains some class notes, drafts of unpublished stories and articles, and miscellaneous including a small amount of correspondence as well as articles and essays about religion, primarily Catholicism.
The collection has been divided into five series. Series I, Research, contains materials related to the background of the Ursuline nuns in the United States, the arrival of the Ursuline nuns in Montana beginning in 1884, prominent Ursuline nuns including Mother Amadeus and Mother Angela, specific research on Mother Amadeus’s secular family, the Dunnes, and the Ursuline missions mostly located on Montana’s Indian reservations. Series II, Correspondence with Mother Amata, contains O’Connell’s initial correspondence with Mother Amata Dunne, the niece of Mother Amadeus, regarding the life of Mother Amadeus and the history of Ursuline nuns. It also contains later correspondence in which O’Connell addresses Mother Amata more as a friend and spiritual advisor. Series III, Class notes, contains English, labor history, general U.S. history and writing class notes as well as research about writing and miscellaneous topics. Series IV, Drafts of stories and articles, contains O’Connell’s original drafts of unpublished stories and articles, the latter related to Montana history. Series V, Miscellaneous, contains miscellaneous correspondence, magazine rejection slips, articles and essays about religion, particularly Catholicism, and some Catholic related ephemera. Series VI, Publications, contains books annotated by O'Connell, most are on American Indian or American history topics.
This series contains materials relating to the background of the Ursuline nuns in the United States, the arrival of the Ursuline nuns in Montana beginning in 1884, prominent Ursuline nuns including Mother Amadeus and Mother Angela, specific research on Mother Amadeus’s secular family, the Dunnes, and the Ursuline missions mostly located on Montana’s Indian reservations.
This series contains materials correspondence with Mother Amata, including O’Connell’s initial correspondence with Mother Amata Dunne, the niece of Mother Amadeus, regarding the life of Mother Amadeus and the history of Ursuline nuns.
This series contains English, labor history, general U.S. history and writing class notes as well as research about writing and miscellaneous topics.
This series contains O’Connell’s original drafts of unpublished stories and articles, the latter related to Montana history.
This series contains miscellaneous correspondence, magazine rejection slips, articles and essays about religion, and some related Catholic ephemera.
This series contains 16 books owned by Patricia O’Connell. Most of the publications relate to her historical research and interest in the history of the American west and American Indian history. Many of the books have annotations written by O’Connell and a single folder of undated notes is also included.
This is an artificial collection compiled around the subject of the University of Montana in Missoula. All of the images in this collection have something to do with University of Montana-related events, locations or individuals, and help to document over a century of campus history. Images come from a variety of sources. The majority of the images in this collection were placed in Archives & Special Collections prior to the 1980s. In many cases the original photographer and / or the provenance of an image is unknown.
Digital copies of the materials in Boxes 1 through 9 are available online at https://umt.box.com/v/RG006UMPhotographs. These digital copies were created in 2009 and are meant for reference only.
This 'artificial' collection contains magazines, newsletters, directories, flyers, posters, and postcards published primarily in Missoula, Montana, related to cyling, bicycle safety, tours, and special events. The bulk of the collection consists of publications from BikeCentennial (known since 1993 as the Adventure Cycling Association) and the Missoula Bicycle Club (known from 1997-2019 as Missoulians on Bicycles, or MOBI). Miscellaneous newsletters related to bicycling created by the City of Missoula and the Montana Transportation Project are also included.
BikeCentennial began as the planning organization of a cross-country bicycle tour commemorating the United States bicentennial in 1976 and later expanded to charting additional long-distance routes for cyclists. In 1993, the group rebranded as Adventure Cycling Association and continues to operate today.
The Missoula Bicycle Club was also established in 1976 as a non-profit promoting safe cycling in Montana. From 1997-2019, the organization was known as Missoulians on Bicycles (MOBI), but it has since reverted its name to the Missoula Bicycle Club.
Prominent publications in this collection include: Bikereport, Adventure Cyclist, Cyclosource, The Cyclists' Yellow Pages, and the Missoula Bike Club / Missoulians on Bicycles Newsletter.
Series I contains the Missoula Bicycle Club/Missoulians on Bicycles Newsletter as well as promotional material related to the Tour of the Swan River Valley (TOSRV), an annual 200+ mile bike tour through western Montana, which was hosted by the club from 1971-2017.
Series II contains publications and promotional material from BikeCentennial, which re-branded as the Adventure Cycling Association in 1993. Primary titles include BikeReport, Adventure Cyclist, Cyclosource, and The Cyclists' Yellow Pages.
Series III contains miscellaneous newsletters and flyers from the City of Missoula's Bicycle Program/Bicycle Pedestrian Office, Police Department, and the Montana Transportation Project, which was a non-profit based out of Helena, Montana.
The collection contains daily meteorological observations from November 1935 to December 1988. Records from 1973 to 1975 are missing. Materials consist of Weather Bureau forms in bound volumes (1935-1978 and 1983-1988) and boxes (1945-1948 and 1979-1982), arranged chronologically. The meteorological observations include data such as temperature, barometric pressure, dewpoint, humidity, wind, precipitation, cloud type, visibility, and general weather conditions. The forms include notes on equipment maintenance and physical description of the various weather station locations.
WB Form 1001 (later 733j) includes daily records and a monthly summary. Form 1002 is an annual summary. Form 1014 is a daily local record, with index. Form 1130 (later WBAN 10) records airway weather observations. Pilot Reports (abbreviated PIREPS) are monthly reports on weather more than 1.5 miles from any airport runway. These reports appear from April 1950 to November 1962 but are not clearly titled as a separate form until 1959. Form 450-10 (later WS Form H-10) is a monthly equipment operation log. Many volumes include Weather Bureau instructions for preparing the forms, a typed narrative summary of the month's weather, and typed instructions for preparing the daily local record index. Volumes from 1949 on include Forms 1001 and 1130 only; Forms 1002, 1014, and indexes no longer appear. Equipment operation logs appear from 1968 to 1982. Descriptions of the weather station locations and instrumentation appear on various forms throughout the collection.
Volumes 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, and 16 include both airport and city office observations, reflecting the two observation stations that were operating from 1939 to 1944. Corrections are occasionally noted for a previous month.
This collection contains correspondence, financial, legal, organizational, promotional, and photographic records generated or collected by William Leonard Albrecht with particular emphasis on the Albrecht Furniture Company, the first and one of the most distinguished furniture stores in Great Falls, Montana. Collection materials also include limited records from some of the Albrecht family's other investments, the Gold Black Sand Mining Company, the Montana Herold Publishing Company, and the Cascade and Bitter Root Lumber Company. This collection provides particular insights into the history and practices of home furnishing businesses in central Montana from the late 19th Century through the mid 20th century. Correspondence materials include personal exchanges with members of the extended Albrecht family. This correspondence, in conjunction with the Sons of Hermann materials, provides insights into German immigrant experiences and perspectives during Montana's pioneer-era. Additionally, collection materials document the challenges of establishing retail businesses in a rural state.
This series contains extensive correspondence, financial, legal, organizational, and promotional materials generated and collected by the Albrecht family with particular emphasis upon the operation of the Albrecht Furniture Company in Great Falls, Montana. These materials provide insights into the history and practices of home furnishing businesses in central Montana from the late 19th century through the mid-20th century. Correspondence materials also include personal exchanges with members of the extended Albrecht family, documenting aspects of German immigrant experiences and perspectives during Montana's pioneer-era. Additionally these items document the challenges of establishing retail businesses in a rural state.
This series contains correspondence, legal, organizational, and research records generated by the Gold Black Sand Mining Company, a gold and platinum drilling and dredging operation on the Clark's Fork of the Yellowstone River in Montana. The business was headquartered in Great Falls, Montana. These materials highlight transformations in Montana's mineral extraction industry from placer mines to larger-scale, trace mineral recovery operations.
This series contains financial and organizational records generated by the Sons of Hermann, Bismarck Lodge No. 1 and its subsidiary operation, the Montana Herold Publishing Company. The Sons of Hermann had its origin as a mutual protection society for German immigrants to New York City in the 1840s, but in Great Falls served more as a cultural preservation and business networking organization. The Montana Herold was a German language newspaper published in Great Falls from 1892 to 1898. Included with these materials is a list of subscribers that may be of great interest to genealogical researchers.
This series contains 4 volumes of organizational and financial records generated by the German Lodge of Great Falls, a fraternal organization composed of German-American immigrants and descendents.
This series contains six volumes of correspondence and financial records from the Cascade and Bitter Root Lumber Company, a late 19th century raw timber distributor that conducted extensive business with the Anaconda Copper Mining Company but also supplied several other Montana operations and a few midwestern furniture manufactures.
This series contains 19 images of late 19th century Great Falls, Montana, including some buildings now listed on the National Register of Historic sites. These images document several early Great Falls businesses and the character of the downtown district just prior to 1900. Also included in this series are three candid images of William Albrecht, junior, one professional portrait of William Albrecht, senior, that hung in the furniture store, and one photograph of an Albrecht Furniture billboard from the mid 1960s.
The collection is primarily Gertrud Lackschewitz’s research files and recorded interviews relating to German immigration. Her research includes articles, books, bibliographies, notes, photographs, maps, prints, advertisements, announcements, pamphlets, newspapers, card files, and questionnaires relating to German immigrant settlements, religion, language, education, music, poetry, and livelihood in Montana and the United States. Card files and notes in many of the Montana research files relate directly to the taped interviews. The collection contains extensive research on Hutterite colonies in Montana, especially Hutterite religion and culture in Montana and Canada. Also included are Lackschewitz’s own writings and lectures on German immigrants as well as a memoir which includes her own story but also memories set down by her husband, Klaus; material relating to national and local events for the tricentennial of German immigration to the United States; and personal correspondence with friends and colleagues.
This subseries consists of audio cassettes of interviews with individuals and some music. Most of the interviews were conducted in English, but several of them were conducted in German, or a combination of German and English.
In 2019, the audio interviews were assigned an oral history collection name, German Immigrants in Montana Oral History Project and given collection number OH 433 to facilitate discovery and access.
This collection contains administrative files for Lolo National Forest, as well as administrative files accumulated from other forests absorbed into Lolo. These files include information related to boundaries, land use, and the history of the forest. The collection also contains work diaries, reports on game and campground improvements, maps created by the National Forest, materials related to the publication of Thirty-two Years in the Mule Business, a short work published by the National Forest about the Ninemile Remount Station, and a series of photographs of the Ninemile Remount Station and its operations, including the Civilian Conservation Corps activities of the 1930s and 1940s. The collection is arranged into six series: Administrative files, Diaries, Reports, Publications, Maps, and Photographs.
Please note that these records do not comprise a complete or representative unit of records produced by the Lolo National Forest over the years encompassed by the collection’s date range as the records were not acquired in a systematic manner. The archival records for Region 1 of the USFS are kept in the National Archives and Records Administration Pacific Alaska Region repository in Seattle, Washington and are listed there as Record Group 95.
The administrative files contain documents detailing the boundaries and management of Lolo National Forest. Included in these files are documents created by forests whose lands were absorbed into Lolo National Forest, specifically, Missoula National Forest and Cabinet National Forest. The series also contains a group of files documenting the history of the Forest and historic landmarks within the Forest. The diaries are comprised of the work diaries by former Forest employees working in the 1940s through the 1950s. The reports relate to campground improvement, winter game studies, timber marking and cutting, grazing permits and verification, road maintenance, and fire control. One report about campground improvement contains annotations by E.H. Myrick, former supervisor of Lolo National Forest.
The publications files consist of the research files and drafts used for Thirty-two Years in the Mule Business: The USDA/Forest Service Remount Depot and Winter Range, by Jane Reed Benson. The maps are “seen area” maps, which record the observations of a cartographer standing at a single point and drawing the full 360 degree panorama visible from that point. These maps center around specific lookout points within the forest and the patrol study field notes related to the mapped area. Many of the maps are hand drawn, others are printed maps upon which the surveyor has shaded specific regions of the map.
The photographs are of the Ninemile Remount Station and the animals (mules and horses) that were housed at the station as well as the CCC camp that existed there.
This series consists of files detailing the establishment of Lolo National Forest, its boundaries, the acquisition of land resulting from the disbanding of other National Forests, the upkeep of forest infrastructure, and leases on use of the land by companies such as the Northern Pacific Railway. A portion of the administrative files consist of files inherited from now defunct National Forests that were incorporated into Lolo National Forest. These forests include Missoula National Forest and Cabinet National Forest.
This series consists of six subseries: Lolo National Forest, Cabinet National Forest, Missoula National Forest, Kootenai National Forest, Kaniksu National Forest, and Landmarks and historical information.
This subseries contains files regarding the boundaries of the forest, its resources, and documents concerning land use and management.
This subseries contains files regarding the boundaries of the forest, its management in terms of repairs and land use, its history, and a “last will and testament” describing the dissolution of the forest in 1954.
This subseries contains files concerning the boundaries and history of the forest.
This subseries contains information about recreation areas around Noxon Rapids Reservoir.
This subseries contains a report about settlement within the National Forest.
This file contains files regarding the history of Lolo National Forest, landmarks and memorials within the forest, and general files on the history of the National Forest Service.
This series contains work diaries of various Lolo National Forest employees and is arranged in alphabetical order according to the name of employee.
This series contains Lolo National Forest copies of reports on game and campground improvements.
Copy contains notes by E.H. Myrick
Cover on title is First Report of the Cabinet Winter Big Game Study Covering the Winter of 1934-1935. Written by G.H. Duvendack.
Written by Alban Roemer
This series contains files related to Thirty-Two Years in the Mule Business, which is about the Ninemile Remount Station in Lolo National Forest and was published by the United States Forest Service. The USFS contracted Jane Benson to write the publication and the files are likely Benson’s files for the book. The drafts and correspondence related to the creation of the book have been placed in front of the research files created by Benson.
This series contains dozens of maps and reports of local terrain and resources centering around peaks and lookouts within the forest. These maps are arranged according to numbers assigned to them by the records creator. Most maps are also titled according to the peak or lookout from which the map was created.
This series contains prints and negatives of the Ninemile Remount Station, the mules and horses that were housed there, Civilian Conservation Corps activities in the 1930s and 1940s, fire fighting operations, and other historic photographs of the Ninemile area. The images in this series are mixed in format (3" x 5" prints, 4" x 5" negatives, and 35mm negatives).
The collection contains maps, artifacts, and documents concerning a variety of Montana historical topics. Much of the collection is composed of unpublished copies of White's historical articles, as well as notes and research material. White documented and photographed many of his excavations and artifacts and these photos compose a large portion of the collection. The Thain White Papers provide a range of original research on many popular Montana subjects.
A few personal letters, including correspondence between White and Professor Carling Malouf, are contained in this series. Also included is a letter from the Scandinavian-American Hide and Metal Company dated 1915.
Articles on a variety of Montana historical topics constitute this series. White writes on his original research and the collection contains typed, handwritten and published copies. Many of these works were done with the assistance of Professor Carling Malouf. A few of the original copies also include maps and artifacts concerning the research topic. The series is subdivided into six subseries: Indian Wars, Other Native American Studies, Forts, Homesteading, Flathead Valley History and Other Montana Studies. Within these subdivisions, the articles are then arranged alphabetically by topic.
This subseries contains White's writing and research concerning the armed conflicts between Native American tribes in the Northwest and the United States government.
This subseries contains White's writing and research on various aspects of Native American culture.
This subseries contains White's writing and research on various trading posts and military forts.
This subseries contains White's research and writing on various homesteading sites.
This subseries contains White's research and writing on the Flathead Valley in northwest Montana.
This subseries contains White's writing and research on various historic figures and topics.
This series is composed of a variety of notes and research documents on Montana territory forts and Montana stagecoaches. These works were reference materials for White or unfinished projects. None of this material is dated.
This small series includes a 1970 publication on steamboats as well as a 1978 tabloid from the Flathead Lookout Museum. The series also contains a few publications on various historical topics.
White collected a few clippings from Montana newspapers on topics of his interest.
This series consists of a 1939 map of a motor passenger boat for Great Northern Railway and an undated map of a machinery floor plan from the Eureka Lumber Co.
This series includes impressions and tombstone rubbings, a sample of early twentieth-century sheep and pig tags and a display of materials used to make Indian canoes.
Many of White's articles also included photographs of excavations or relics. Most of these photos were taken by White, although some are prints from the National Archives or the Montana Historical Society. A separation sheet has been included within the collection for those photos that have been removed from White's articles. The photographs include images of a wide variety of Montana subjects, including artifacts, historical places and people, animals and plants, and Glacier National Park. A set of European photos includes images of France and Belgium in the late 1970s.
The photos are divided into six subseries, based on White's arrangement: General; Boats and Planes; Soldiers, Indians, and Cowboys; Nature and Animals; European; and Going-to-the-Sun Highway. The photos have two types of numbers on them, but are intellectually arranged by subject.
This subseries contains various photographs, many taken by Thain White, that relate to his research and writing; many are Montana subjects.
This subseries contains photographs related to White's research and writing on various boats and planes.
This subseries contains photos relating to White's research and writing on the interaction of people in the American west.
This subseries contains photographs of nature scenes and various animals, mostly in Montana.
This subseries contains photos of European subjects.
This subseries contains photos of various scenes at Glacier National Park in Montana.
The collection includes drug prescriptions filled by the Peterson Drug Company in Missoula, Montana, between 1914 and 1915.
This collection includes a variety of records and publications produced by the University of Montana's University Relations department including campus photographs, faculty biographies, and press releases. The majority of the collection is currently unprocessed, but a list of photographs and a chronological run of press releases is available.
This series contains press releases created and distributed by University Relations to share information about campus individuals, events and activities.
This series contains photographs taken by various University Photographers including Gerald Kling and Todd Goodrich. Subjects include campus buildings, faculty and administrators, campus events, and student activities. A variety of formats, including 35mm negatives, slides and prints are included. A rough inventory of these images is available at the Archives.
This series contains folders compiled by Information Services (University Relations) about UM employees but also about guest speakers, staff, graduate students, and student leaders for whom press releases were created. Folders often include biographical information collected by Information Services (University Relations) and some include photographs.
Manuscript, written in 1964 for the Montana Territorial Centennial, chronicling the history of Drummond and the nearby communities of Hall, New Chicago, and others. It describes many early day residents, organizations, institutions, and events.
This collection contains correspondence, financial, legal, organizational, and promotional records generated and collected by the Great Falls Breweries, Inc. and its subsidiary, the Montana Malting Company. Collection materials document procedures and finances within the company and professional relationships with product distributors, industry representatives, other regional breweries, suppliers, elected officials, and government regulators. These records provide insights into rural Montana brewing businesses in the years following repeal of Prohibition, through the Great Depression, and into the post World War II economic transformations across the American west. Collection materials particularly evidence the impacts on regional (bottle-oriented) breweries precipitated by 1960s canned beer packaging innovations.
This series contains incoming and outgoing correspondence related to Great Falls Breweries, Inc. business operations. These materials document procedures and finances within the company and professional relationships with product distributors, industry representatives, other regional breweries, suppliers, elected officials, and government regulators.
This series contains financial and legal records generated by Great Falls Breweries, Inc. Among these materials are accounts receivable, audits, inventories, invoices, payroll, stock registers, federal income and alcohol control documents, as well as daily, monthly and annual reports--including a nearly complete sequence of brewery monthly transaction statements from 1933 to 1966. These records document market conditions, supply sources, and management decisions spanning a period of dramatic economic transformation within the brewing industry and across the American west.
This series contains organizational records generated by Great Falls Breweries, Inc. These records primarily document Board of Directors and shareholder lists and meeting materials. Also included are equipment designs, manuals, and instructions, a brewery floor plan developed during renovations in 1954, and office administration documents.
This series contains a short sequence of brewing industry publications and competitor advertising samples collected by Great Falls Breweries management.
This series contains financial and organizational records generated by the Montana Malting Company, a wholly-owned division of Great Falls Breweries, Inc. These records document procedures implemented and challenges faced by the brewery to establish its own, large-scale malting operation intending to expand distribution following the repeal of the 18th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and related Prohibition laws.
This series contains three photographs of Great Falls Breweries advertising images. Two images are bottle label designs and the third is a road sign demo.
This series consists of two corporate seal stamps, one each for Great Falls Breweries, Inc. and Montana Malting Company.

