Collection contains glass plate negatives and lantern slides relating to Western and Native American history.
Manuscripts, poetry, and art work of a Cimarron, New Mexico, resident.
The Bernard M. Bench collection contains a resume and professional correspondence with oil companies. It also contains a railroad survey and articles by Bench about Rangely field. Geological maps, articles, and reports about coal exploration make up the rest of the collection.
Photographs and papers of an Air Force aviator who piloted the first flight around the rim of the continental United States in 1919.
Papers for these radio and television writers.
Journal of a woman who made a journey by military ambulance in 1891 from Fort Washakie, Wyoming, to Casper, Wyoming, accompanied by the Ninth United States Cavalry Regiment, Company E (an African American troop).
Collection includes letterpress books containing political, personal and business correspondence; financial records from most of his businesses; personal, political and business correspondence; political and personal scrapbooks; clippings; and miscellaneous other material.
Research material, correspondence, photographs, and manuscripts regarding the military actions between the United States Army and the Dakota and Cheyenne in 1876.
Papers of a pilot and professional aircraft communicator with the Civil Aeronautics Authority.
Papers of a World War II pilot with the Flying Tigers, a group composed of pilots from the U.S. Army Air Corps, Navy, and Marine Corps.
Collection consists of picture postcards regarding railroads from 1865-1880.
Collection contains photographs, manuscripts, video cassettes, correspondence, contracts, and other materials of film director Allan Dwan.
Papers of this prominent author and environmentalist, including manuscripts, correspondence, photographs, notes, notebooks, clippings, and other miscellaneous memorabilia.
Records of a World War II veterans organization founded in 1958 whose members were on Pearl Harbor or three miles or less offshore during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, on December 7, 1941. The organization was officially disbanded at the end of December 2011 with a membership of about 2,700 members nationally.
Personal and professional letters of a 20th century woman composer.
The papers of Richard De Rochemont, an American film producer and director of informational films including the March of Time newsreels.
Production and publicity materials for many of this director's motion pictures.
Garrett W. Price was a cartoonist best known for his work for "Life" and "The New Yorker". The collection contains artwork, diaries, correspondence, biographical material, and publications.
Nellie L. Wales was a resident of Thermopolis, Wyoming. Collection contains a ledger from the Houghton and Cotter general mercantile store.
Historical materials collected by a Lander, Wyoming, newspaper editor.
The Howard A. Meyerhoff Collection contains the personal and professional papers of Howard A. Meyerhoff, a geologist, professor of geology at Smith College, and chair of the editorial board for the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
The collection contains material compiled by members and officers of the Daughters of the American Colonists with the purpose of commemorating the American colonists and researching the members’ family genealogy.
Correspondence, legal documents, and other papers of a Montana oil promoter.
The collection contains a small amount of correspondence, photographs, and other papers including newspaper and magazine articles by or about Addison A. Spaugh, a Wyoming rancher and businessman.
William Fahnestock was a resident of New York, New York. Collection contains maps.
Production files and publicity materials primarily for Christie Film Company silent films.
Scrapbooks, photographs, writings, and research material of an oil industry executive whose career with Sinclair Oil began in 1906 and who headed Mammoth Oil Company in Wyoming during the Teapot Dome scandal.
Photographs of Pan American Airline’s first transpacific flight (1935), centering on Guam.
Mrs. E. Frost was a Wyoming resident. Collection contains photographs.
Diaries and other personal papers of an Episcopalian missionary bishop of Wyoming and Idaho (1887-1897) and bishop of Central Pennsylvania (1898-1928). 
The Ward W. Husted papers largely contain materials concerning his twenty-year involvement in the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority.
The collection contains materials relating to the Hollywood production career of Selig J. Seligman.
Correspondence with Ricker Van Metre, president of the Wyoming Tie & Timber Company, and newspaper clippings on Martin Olson, the Tie Hack Memorial near Dubois, Wyoming, and the railroad tie-cutting industry.
Diary kept during a cattle drive from Nebraska to Wyoming in 1884.
Photographs of the New York Oil Company's operations in Salt Creek, Poison Spider, Iron Creek, and other oil fields in Wyoming between 1918 and 1922.
Papers of an oilman in Wyoming and Montana.
Screenplays and associated materials of this Hollywood motion picture writer.
The Mildred Stead Capron Papers contain the adventure documentary films she created. Included are related materials including production files, research notes, publicity, and photographs.
Diary transcript and photographs of a member of the American Mount Everest Expedition of 1963.
D. B. Newton was a western novelist who began writing short stories for magazines. Collection contains 3 manuscripts written by the author.
Autobiographical sketch and other papers of a Gulf Oil executive who worked in the foreign sales division.
Sally Rowlett resided in Atascadero, California. Collection contains letters, a periodical, a photograph, and a porcelain vase.
Papers of a historian of the Cody, Wyoming, area.
Fenimore Chatterton was a Wyoming state senator and governor and practiced law in Riverton, Wyoming. This collection contains correspondence from his various occupations, family photographs, and his autobiographical manuscript.
Biographical and personal materials about the president of Sinclair Refining Company.
Donald Stanfield was a resident of Cheyenne, Wyoming. He was involved with a variety of local Cheyenne businesses. Collection contains business seals.
Ray J. Green was involved in the aviation industry. This collection contains his professional papers.
A scrapbook of a newspaper publisher, state auditor, and legislator.
Recordings of American dance orchestra leader Eddy Duchin collected by David H. Scott.
Photographs of the Sheridan, Wyoming, area.
Materials about Roland W. Brown, the Brown Family, the Teton Valley, and the University of Wyoming.
Collection contains a detailed two-volume memoir written by Kennedy in 1956; correspondence dealing with court cases and other legal matters (1924-1957); speeches and addresses (1950-1956); opinions of cases (1924-1955); and six scrapbooks.
G. D. Ashabranner worked primarily as an oil and gas attorney in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Collection contains one manuscript written by Ashabranner.
The Lyn Murray papers contain the musical scores, audiotapes, and professional papers of the Emmy award winning composer Lyn Murray.
T.A. and Amelia Kent were settlers in the Wyoming Territory in 1867. The collection contains recipe books created by Amelia Kent, various artifacts, and legal documents about their life in Wyoming.
The Fee and Murphy families came to Laramie, Wyoming, in the 1860s as employees of the Union Pacific Railroad. Family members also engaged in local politics and owned businesses, including a saloon. The collection contains business records of Michael H. Murphy and others and photographs of people and places in the vicinity of Laramie.
B.H. Gerwin was a copper economics consultant. This collection contains his professional papers.
This collection contains music scores, notes, research materials, scripts, vinyl recordings, songbooks and related materials for six motion pictures.
The collection contains materials related to the Richardson Family from 1870 to 1945, including ranch records (1886-1925), manuscripts of reminiscences written by Willing G. Richardson prior to 1945, and photographs and glass plate negatives of the Richardson Family, activities on the Richardson Ranch and in the surrounding area, and the University of Wyoming at Laramie, Wyoming.
The collection contains materials relating to the filming of the 1939 motion picture "Jesse James" and the film's director Henry King.
The Daniel W. Knowlton family papers predominately consist of the personal and professional papers of Colorado lawyer Daniel W. Knowlton, Jr. (1881-1969). Also included are diaries from Daniel W. Knowlton, Sr. (1846-1897) and family pictures.
Manuscript, photographs, illustrations, and extensive research materials by this division of U.S. Steel Corporation’s manager of employee publications for a pamphlet series on the history of western industry entitled, 100 Years West of the Hundredth Meridian (or 100 Years West of 100º).
The Truman H. Kuhn papers include biographical material, administrative files (many from foreign university projects), geology articles, books, newspaper clippings, correspondence, maps, notes, mining reports, speeches, and subject files. The material traces his academic career, both as a student and a professor, and his professional career including his work at the Los Angeles County Flood Control District, and his consulting work for foreign universities in Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Indonesia.
The Animal Trap Company emerged in the 1920s under the leadership of C. M. Woolworth in Lititz, Pennsylvania as a sporting goods company. Collection contains a mousetrap.
Correspondence and financial records of oil companies in Montana in the early twentieth century.
Mine maps of the Union Pacific Coal Company, primarily from the Rock Springs, Wyoming, area.
Papers of a journalist and Chief of Division for Civil Affairs and Director of Posts in the Panama Canal Zone from 1907 to the 1950s.
Papers, photographs, and artifacts concerning construction and operation of the Pathfinder Dam in Wyoming.
Joseph Gras collected materials pertaining to Wyoming history. This collection contains his materials regarding Tom Horn.
Papers of a longtime Laramie, Wyoming, resident, graduate of the University of Wyoming, and daughter of a Wyoming pioneer family.
Reports and maps of a mining engineer who worked primarily in the western United States.
Collection contains materials mainly relating to Throssel's photographic work, including 2,481 photographs, glass plate negatives and lantern slides of the Crow and Northern Cheyenne Indians from 1902-1933.
In 1949, the people of France sent the “Merci Train” to the U. S., in appreciation of the American “Freedom Train,” which carried food to the French during WWII. Collection contains chinaware, vases, ceramics, pottery, buckles and studs, and other artifacts.
Maps and other materials of a land-holding company engaged in coal, oil, and gas extraction in Colorado.
Maps, photographs, diaries, transcripts, research notes, and other materials relating to emigration on the Overland Trails in the U.S. West.
William Wayne Morrison, b. April 8, 1898-d. March 7, 1977; telegrapher, freight and passenger agent for Union Pacific in Wyoming; historian of emigrant trails and pioneer graves
Fred G. Farish was a mining engineer who documented his travels as a mine inspector in the western United States and Mexico in photograph albums showing mines and living conditions for miners between 1900 and 1922.
Collection contains correspondence, office files, publications, and photographs documenting the administration, management, activities, and work of the Episcopal Church in Wyoming. 
The collection contains muster rolls, returns, and other records of Company D (1862-1866), a photograph of Peter W. Van Winkle (circa 1860s), and a brief biography of the Van Winkle family by Nellie W. Baum (circa 1951). The artifacts comprise of a sash, insignia, and an epaulette box of Capt. Van Winkle’s and a drawing of Fort Laramie during the time the Van Winkle family lived there. Also included with the collection are a funeral notice for Caspar Collins (1866) and copies of articles by C.O. Collins about his experiences with the 11th Ohio Volunteer Cavalry (1917).
Collection contains correspondence; lectures and class notes on physics and geology; publications and reprints; extensive research notes and subject files; glass negatives; maps & charts; and miscellaneous artifacts of this geophysicist.
Contains records documenting the history of the Medicine Bow National Forest in Wyoming.
Photographs, news clippings, and correspondence about oil wells and refineries on the Kevin Sunburst Oil Field in Montana.
Hugh Baker Cox was an antitrust lawyer who worked for the U.S. Department of Justice. The collection contains correspondence, memoranda, legal opinions, and other materials related to Cox's work
Business files, correspondence, financial records, photographs, and publications of this national organization of cattlemen.
Papers of an American playwright and screenwriter.
Typescript masters thesis on photographic reoccupation of Sand Creek area to study geomorphic and vegetative change from 1897 to 1989.
George T. Beck came to Wyoming in 1879, and was a sheep rancher, oil land developer, businessman, and politician in the Cody, Wyoming area. The collection contains correspondence and diaries of the Beck family, a manuscript for George Beck's autobiography, correspondence, journals and record books relating to his many business ventures, and printed material relating to his political and business careers.
Photographs, papers, and artifacts of a storekeeper on the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation, who also ranched in Wyoming and speculated in oil on the Crow Reservation in Montana.
Irving C. Root was an architect, city planner, chief engineer/planning director, and superintendent of the National Capital Parks in Washington D.C. The collection contains materials regarding his professional career and the projects he helped to develop. 
Jack Nason was a resident of Crook County, Wyoming. Collection contains Crook County plat maps and deed maps and a book of maps.
Philip Joseph Banner was born in Warwickshire, England and later lived as a resident of Laramie, Wyoming with his family.
The Daniel A. Nelson Bicentennial collection contains subject files, publications, articles, events, memorabilia and merchandise for America's bicentennial celebration in 1976. In addition, there is miscellaneous material from the mid 1970s. 
Business records of a 19th century sheep and cattle rancher in southeast Wyoming.
Papers of an American cinematographer and inventor.
Correspondence and other papers of a collector of the works of Jack London, including letters from Charmian London.
Contains materials compiled by Andrew Denny Rodgers in his research of Indian irrigation in the U.S. and Federal reclamation projects.
Robert H. Herr was involved in the aviation industry. This collection contains his personal and professional papers.
The papers of Edward D. Crippa, who was appointed to represent Wyoming in the United States Senate in 1954, consist of correspondence, case files, and subject files.
Memoirs and photographs of the Trapper's Lodge dude ranch on Shell Creek in Wyoming between 1913 and 1930.
Contains materials relating to Carter's work as a journalist and author of fiction.
Ben Howard was involved in the aviation industry. This collection contains his professional papers.
Diary, map, and printed materials about mountaineering in Wyoming and Montana during the 1920s.
Contains materials documenting Stonorov's career as an architect and city planner.
Contains the papers of L. Wolfe Gilbert, a Russian-born American songwriter known for his work as part of the Tin Pan Alley group.
Papers of a historian and writer on various Western subjects.
Gerald Fried was a music composer, musician, author and arranger for television and motion pictures. Collection contains music scores, movie and television production notes, audio recordings, and photographs regarding his career.
Material from a family that homesteaded in Albany County, Wyoming, in the 1870s.
Articles of incorporation and by-laws; prospecting reports, drilling agreements, and oil and gas leases from fields in California, New Mexico, Texas, Montana, and Wyoming; correspondence regarding leases and sale of stock; and stockholders materials and Board of Directors minutes of meetings for Indian Petroleum Corporation.
Personal papers of F. Bruce Lamb (1913-1992) a tropical forestry expert and writer; The collection contains his work as a professional forester, and his books on Manuel Cordova-Rios, an Amazon medicine man, and Harvey Logan, alias Kid Curry, and the Wild Bunch.
This collection contains materials related to Mrs. Gostas' work in POW/MIA issues.
Papers of an airmail pioneer who later served with the Federal Aviation Administration.
Frank W. Mondell was a Republican politician who served as the mayor of Newcastle, Wyoming and then in the Wyoming Legislature. The collection contains correspondence, his autobiography, photographs, speeches, newspaper clippings, printed material, and scrapbooks.
Albert B. Gerber was an American author who wrote a biography of Howard Hughes. This collection contains Gerber's professional papers.
Dr. Irving S. Cutter (1875-1945) was the dean of the Medical School at Northwestern University from 1925 to 1941. Dr. Cutter was also an author and book collector and was interested in a variety of topics including Western and Native American History.
William Tibbetts Brannon (1906-1981), an author, wrote chiefly nonfictional accounts of crimes under his own name and several pseudonyms. His work was syndicated in over 3,000 newspapers through King Features Syndicate. His main magazine markets were "Official Detective," "True Detective," and "Master Detective." Brannon also wrote nonfiction crime books and short crime fiction.
Charles Frederick Lambert (1887-1971) was an author of Western history and poetry. He was born in Cimarron, New Mexico, to Henri and Mary Lambert and named after William Frederick Cody (Buffalo Bill), who was his godfather. Henri Lambert owned and operated Lambert's Inn (later the St. James Hotel) in Cimarron. Fred Lambert was sworn in as a territorial marshal at the age of sixteen. He was also a deputy sheriff and deputy game warden in Cimarron. Lambert operated the Aztec Mill, built by Lucien Maxwell in 1864, as a museum. The mill was later taken over by the Cimarron Historical Society. Lambert's interest in history was supported by his talent as an artist. He 1948, he published a book of his poetry and drawings titled Bygone Days of the Old West. Lambert married Katie Hoover, also of Cimarron, New Mexico.
Reginald D. Woodcock, an aviation historian, wrote a history of Thomas W. Benoist and the Benoist Airplane Company, "Benoist" in 1971.
Thomas Wesly Benoist (1874-1917) was an aviation pioneer who established a flying school and the Benoist Airplane Company, which produced biplanes in St. Louis in 1910. Benoist also founded the first commercial airline in the U.S., the St. Petersburg-Tampa Airboat Line, which made two daily flights between the two cities from January to March in 1914.
Bernard M. Bench graduated from the Colorado School of Mines as a Geological Engineer in 1930. He worked for various private seismic corporations in Texas until he returned to the School of Mines as a graduate student. He entered the Army Engineers in 1941 and served in the China-Burma-India Theatre until 1945. He then worked as a consultant in Denver, Colorado. From 1961 to 1971, he helped with coal exploration and development in Korea, Mexico, Egypt, India, and Indonesia. He returned to Denver in 1972 and specialized in testing coalbeds in New Mexico, Colorado and Pennsylvania. He retired in 1981.
O. L. Rice was an engineer with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation and later a consultant.
Merrill John Mattes (1910- ), a historian, worked for the National Park Service (NPS) for 30 years, beginning as a ranger at Yellowstone National Park in 1935. He was superintendent of Scotts Bluff National Monument from 1935-1946, acting custodian of Fort Laramie National Monument (later Fort Laramie National Historic Site) beginning in 1938, and was acting historian for Fort Laramie from 1939-1946. Mattes was regional historian at the NPS Region 2 office in Omaha, Nebraska from 1946-1966, chief of history and historic architecture in San Francisco, California from 1966-1971, and manager of the historic preservation team at the NPS Denver Service Center from 1971-1975. He became an independent historical consultant in 1976. In 1944, Mattes testified as an expert witness against the state of Wyoming's lawsuit challenging the creation of the Jackson Hole National Monument.
Ernest Emery Harmon (1893-1933) was an aviator in the Air Corps of the United States. He joined the Air Corps in 1917. In 1919 he piloted the first flight around the rim of the continental United States, a trip that took three months to complete. In 1932 Harmon was commissioned a captain. He was killed jumping from an airplane in 1933. Ernest Harmon Air Force Base in Newfoundland was named for him in 1949.
Frank and Doris Hursley wrote drama and comedy programs for radio and serial dramas for both radio and television.
Ellsworth Eugene Lonabaugh (1861-1938), was an attorney in Sheridan, Wyoming, from 1890-1938. He was admitted to the Territorial Bar in 1887, and practiced in Lusk, Wyoming, prior to settling in Sheridan. From 1915-1938, he practiced in partnership with his sons Harvey E. and Alger W. Lonabaugh. Clients included Kooi Coal Company, Ohio Oil Company, the Chicago, Burlington, & Quincy Railroad Company, various ranches and the Sheridan Bank of Commerce. His personal business interests included three sheep and cattle ranches near Sheridan, Meeteetse Mercantile Company, and in 1922, a controlling interest in the Sheridan Bank of Commerce.
Harvey Gerald Bobst was an administrator for the Soil Conservation Service in the Great Plains region of the United States.
Mary Elizabeth Allen Richards Almy (1841-1915) was born in Providence, Rhode Island. Her family moved to Massachusetts and later to Illinois. In 1861, she married Thomas Jefferson Almy (1836-1916) in Illinois. The couple had three children, Elizabeth, Benjamin, and Grace. Mary E. Almy and her family left Illinois and homesteaded in the area of Salt Lake City, Utah. While Mary E. Almy stayed in Salt Lake City, Thomas Jefferson Almy bought land for a coal mining venture near Evanston, Wyoming, which was first known as “Wyoming Camp” and later as Almy, Wyoming. In 1891 Mary E. Almy traveled by military ambulance from Fort Washakie, Wyoming, to Casper, Wyoming, then by train to Fort Robinson, Nebraska. With her were her infant granddaughter Mildred Almy Parker, daughter Elizabeth Almy Parker, and son-in-law Lieutenant Montgomery Davis Parker. The ambulance was escorted by African American troops of the Ninth United States Cavalry Regiment, Company E. Mary E. Almy and her husband later returned to Illinois where Mary died in 1915.
Michael and Fay Kanin were one of the most prominent husband-wife collaborative teams in the performing arts responsible for writing, directing and producing hundreds of motion pictures, plays and works of fiction. Michael Kanin was born in Rochester, NY, studied at the Arts Students League in New York City and at the New York School of Design. He was an artist and musician before turning to writing, producing, and directing for the stage and screen. Michael, along with Ring Lardner, Jr., received the 1942 Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences Award for their original screenplay, "Woman of the Year", which starred Katherine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy.
Fay Kanin was a native of New York and attended Elmira College in Elmira, NY prior to moving to California where she graduated from the University of Southern California (1937). She married Michael Kanin in 1940 and immediately started writing collaboratively. She was a prolific playwright and screenwriter who along with her husband received the 1958 Academy Award for the best written comedy for their work "Teacher's Pet". Fay Kanin served as the president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (1979-1983).
Freeman was born Howard Freeman Schoppe and graduated from Yale in 1917. After serving in World War I, he became a character actor on stage, television and in motion pictures. Freeman was married to Ruth Dibble in 1939.
The Coldwater Copper Mining Company was formed in 1900 by a group of investors from Detroit, Michigan. The company was located near Encampment in Carbon County, Wyoming and held interest in the Wolverine Mining & Leasing Company, which was also located near Encampment and which conducted mining in Carbon County and Larimer County, Colorado.
Arthur William Harrington (1888-1964) served with the U.S. Geological Survey from 1922-1958, heading the U.S.G.S. District Office in Albany, New York. He was an expert on flood control and most of his work related to water resources development in New York State. Harrington co-authored "Stream Flow: Measurements, Records and Their Uses" in 1943 with Nathan C. Clifford.
Francis E. Warren, a Massachusetts native, emigrated to Wyoming in 1868. He began work in the mercantile business, soon becoming a partner and then owner of several businesses and ranching properties. While increasing his business holdings, Warren became involved in politics and government. He was a governor of the Wyoming Territory and the first governor of the state of Wyoming. He stepped down as governor after being elected one of Wyoming's first United States senators. Warren was a leader in Wyoming politics and business and in the U.S. Senate until his death in 1929.
Francis Emroy Warren was born in Hinsdale, Berkshire County, Massachusetts, on June 20, 1844. He attended public schools and Hinsdale Academy. At the outbreak of the Civil War he enlisted in Company C, Forty-ninth Regiment, Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and served as a private and non-commissioned officer. He received the Congressional Medal of Honor "for gallantry on the battlefield at the siege of Port Hudson".
In 1868 Warren emigrated to Wyoming, which was then a part of the Dakota Territory, where he worked in a furniture store for another Massachusetts native, A. R. Converse. By 1871 he became a partner, with the firm's name changing to Converse and Warren. In 1877 he bought Converse out and changed the company's name to F. E. Warren and Company, later Warren Mercantile Company.
In 1883 Warren formed the Warren Live Stock Company which grew to be one of the most important ranching operations in the state, encompassing some 150,000 deeded acres. Warren owned several parcels of real estate in Wyoming and a number of other companies including the Cheyenne and Northern Railroad and the Brush-Swan Electric Company, which provided the first electric power to Cheyenne.
In addition to his business interests, Warren was active in politics. He was a member of the Cheyenne City Council from 1873 to 1874 and was instrumental in securing the first lighting system for Cheyenne. In 1873 he was elected to the Council of the Territorial Assembly, where he served from 1873 to 1874 and from 1884 to 1885. He was council president during his first term.
Warren served as territorial treasurer in 1876, 1879, 1882, and 1884, and as chairman of the Republican Territorial Central Committee. He was elected mayor of Cheyenne in 1885 and was appointed territorial governor of Wyoming by President Chester A. Arthur to fill the unexpired term of William Hale. He took the oath of office February 28, 1885.
During his tenure Warren called for federal troops to protect Chinese workers during the riots in Rock Springs, Wyoming, on September 2, 1885. He also instituted a quarantine on cattle from all states and territories in which a pleuro-pneumonia was thought to have existed. He served as governor until November 11, 1886, when he was removed from office by President Grover Cleveland.
Warren was a delegate to the Republican National Convention at Chicago in 1888. He was appointed territorial governor for a second time by President Benjamin Harrison, taking the oath of office April 9, 1889, and serving until October 11, 1890, when he was elected the first governor of the State of Wyoming. He took office on October 11, 1890, and resigned November 24, 1890, after having been elected by the State Legislature as one of the first two U.S. Senators from Wyoming. He served until 1893 and was reelected in 1895 and served until his death in 1929.
From his first term in the Senate, Warren was one of its leaders. Between 1891 and 1893 and 1895 and 1899 he served as chair of the Committee on Irrigation and Reclamation of Public Lands. He worked closely with Wyoming's other senator, Joseph M. Carey, in supporting the Carey Act for the reclamation of public land. Following the passage of this act, Wyoming was the first state to begin the reclamation of arid land. In 1896 Warren offered an amendment to the rivers and harbors bill which provided funding for a survey of rivers in Wyoming and Colorado to determine reservoir sites. Along with Carey, Warren was known as a founding father of irrigation in the West.
Warren served as chair of the Military Affairs Committee from 1905 to 1911. During that period he worked with Secretary of War Elihu Root to reorganize the army, raise military pay, and establish a General Staff. As the ranking minority member prior to World War I, he supported the national defense and the selective service acts.
From 1921 until 1929, Senator Warren was chairman of the Appropriations Committee, one of the most important Senate committees. Here he supported reduced government expenditures and stiffer tariffs, especially those which protected the farm and livestock industries.
At his death on November 24, 1929, in Washington, D.C., Warren had served as Senator for thirty-seven years, the longest service record in the United States Senate to that time.
Francis E. Warren married Helen M. Smith on January 26, 1871, and before her death in 1902 they had two children, Helen Frances (Frankie) and Frederick Emroy. Senator Warren was remarried on June 28, 1911, to Clara LeBaron Morgan.
Helen married General John J. Pershing. Fred E. Warren became vice-president of Warren Live Stock Company in 1913 and replaced his father as president upon his death in 1929. He retained this position until his own death in 1949. Fred Warren was followed by his son Francis Emroy.
To maintain control of his many business interests while away from home, Warren relied heavily on two men. W.W. Gleason was general manager of Warren Live Stock and ran the operation while Warren was in Washington, D.C. Hiram Sapp was Warren's executive secretary and served as liaison between Warren and his companies and acted as a troubleshooter while Warren attended the Senate.
Jesse Wendell Vaughn was an author and historian of 19th century military campaigns in the U.S. West. Most of his work concerned the campaign against the Dakota and Cheyenne in 1876. Vaughn published books and articles, including "The Reynolds Campaign on Powder River," and "With Crook at the Rosebud."
Lahee (1884-1968), a petroleum geologist, received his Ph. D. from Harvard in 1911. He taught at Massachusetts Institute of Technology before joining Sun Oil Company, where he was chief geologist from 1920 to 1947 and geological counselor from 1947 to 1955. His book, "Field Geology," went through six editions between 1916 and 1961.
Danny Arnold (1925- ) was a writer for television and movies. He wrote screenplays early in his career and turned to television writing in 1956. He has written for many television programs including several program pilots. He was also co-creator and executive producer of several programs including "Barney Miller" and "Fish."
Frank R. Rapsilber (b. 1908) was a pilot and a professional aircraft communicator with the Civil Aeronautics Authority. After high school, Rapsilber began training at the U.S. Naval Training Station at Great Lakes, Illinois where he took a competitive test and was selected for the Navy’s radio school in San Diego, California. After completing the course, he was assigned to the cruiser U.S.S. Omaha and then to the staff of the Navy Unit, Commander Destroyers, Battle Force. Rapsilber was discharged from the Navy in 1933 after six years of service. He next served with the U.S. War Department’s Bureau of Engineers as a communications specialist for the Dundee, a hydraulic dredge boat. In 1936, Rapsilber transferred to the relatively new Bureau of Air Commerce, which became the Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) in 1940, and then the Federal Aviation Agency in 1958. Rapsilber began as a Junior Radio Operator with the Bureau of Air Commerce stationed in Peoria, Illinois, and was promoted in two years to Assistant Radio Operator, transferring to St. Louis, Missouri. In 1941, Rapsilber became a watch supervisor at a CAA station in Denver, Colorado. In 1942, he was assistant chief of a CAA station in Wichita, Kansas, and, when that station closed, became in 1944 the chief of a CAA station in Dodge City, Kansas. He spent the rest of his career in Dodge City and retired from the Federal Aviation Agency in 1963.
Emmie D. Mygatt is a writer of western stories, editor of western anthologies for the Western Writers of America, and a member of the World Friendship Society of Radio Amateurs.
Dave Jones was a Cody, Wyoming, businessman and oil speculator. Jones arrived in Cody in 1904 from Iowa and opened the Dave Jones clothing store in Cody in 1906. The store became known for its innovative advertising and use of display cases. Jones was also a member of the Board of Directors of the Western Oil and Gas Company of Cody, Wyoming.
Isaac L. Ellwood (1833-1910) was a co-inventor of barbed wire, industrialist, and rancher during the second half of the nineteenth century. Ellwood was born in Salt Springville, New York and settled in DeKalb, Illinois during the 1850s. He first observed Henry Rose's invention of barbed wire in 1873, then patented his own version of the concept in 1874. Ellwood purchased a half interest in Joseph Glidden's barbed wire patent, and the two men formed the Barbed Fence Company in DeKalb, Illinois in 1875. When Glidden sold his half interest to Washburn-Moen Manufacturing Company in 1876, Ellwood renamed his business I.L. Ellwood and Company and retained control of barbed wire production and distribution in the West. Elwood later formed Ellwood Wire and Nail Company, then reorganized his businesses as I.L. Ellwood Manufacturing Company in 1889. In 1898, he sold his barbed wire interests to John W. Gates, who created American Steel and Wire Company. In addition to his barbed wire business, Ellwood also imported and bred Percheron horses, owned ranches in Texas (including the famed Renderbrook and Spade Ranches), and invested in farm mortgages and mining.
William L. Ellwood (1859-1933), the son of of Isaac L. Ellwood, was a prominent horse breeder and rancher during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Born in DeKalb, Illinois, the younger Ellwood started his business career managing his father's Percheron horse interests, then found and operated his own successful Percheron breeding business, Will Ellwood Company, in DeKalb. In addition to his horse business, he was a co-manager of the Ellwoods' ranches (including the Renderbrook and Spade Ranches) in Texas.
Mitchell wrote the plays "Becky Sharp" and "The New York Idea" among many others.
Universal Oil Products Company (UOP) played a major role in the development of the petroleum industry. UOP was established in 1915, having been instituted in 1914 by Jesse A. Dubbs, inventor, and J. Ogden Armour, financier, as the National Hydrocarbon Company. C.P. Dubbs, son of the founder, headed research and development of technologies for the oil refining, petrochemical, and gas processing industries, centered in Independence, Kansas. In 1919 Universal Oil Products introduced Dubb's very successful thermal cracking process which was utilized worldwide. Headquartered in Chicago and then Des Plaines, Illinois, UOP offered the first viable catalytic condensation process and during World War II the company introduced needed innovations in aviation fuels and gasoline production.
Allan Nevins specialized in Civil War and economic history and American biography. He worked as a journalist in New York before beginning a 30 year career as professor of history at Columbia University in 1928. After his retirement from Columbia in 1958, he spent the remainder of his life as a senior research associate at the Huntington Library. Nevins won two Pulitzer Prizes for his biographies of Grover Cleveland and Hamilton Fish and was chair of the U.S. Civil War Centennial Commission.
Virginia Cole Trenholm (1902-1994) was a historian who wrote four books on the Shoshoni and Arapaho Indians of the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming.
Fuller (1875-1965) served as chief fiscal agent for the University of Wyoming from the 1920s to 1940s, and worked with the United States General Land Office. Through expertise gained in these two positions, Fuller was called as an expert witness in cases before the United States Indian Claims Commission. The Commission was established in 1946 and heard Indian claims against the U.S. government for payment of land ceded by the Indians.
Fuller testified on the values of land and land resources during the following Indian Claims Commission cases: Case #61 (1959) of the confederated Salish and Kootenai tribes of the Flathead Reservation in Montana involving an 1855 treaty; Case #239 (1954) of the Tillamook Indians of the Siletz Reservation in Oregon involving an 1874 treaty; and Case #63 (1953) of the Shoshone Tribe of the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming involving an 1868 treaty.
Frederick Ferdinand Ploetz (1914-1972) was a World War II pilot with the Flying Tigers, a group composed of pilots from the U.S. Army Air Corps, Navy, and Marine Corps. Ploetz is credited with destroying two enemy aircraft in aerial combat during World War II and was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. He then became a career Air Force officer attaining the rank of colonel.
Bradley (1863-1953) graduated from the University of California in 1885 as a mining engineer and worked as superintendent of the Spanish Mine outside of Kellogg, Idaho from 1885-1897. From 1897-1926 he was superintendent, assistant manager and president of Bunker Hill and Sullivan Mining and Concentrating Company, which held interest in gold, silver and lead mines in Idaho, California, Utah and Alaska and the Alaska Juneau Gold Mining Company.
Allan Dwan was a film director. He was born in Toronto, Canada on April 3, 1885. He graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a degree in electrical engineering. Allan worked for Essanay as a scenario editor, later moving to the American Film Company. He married Betty Marie Shelton and had no children. He directed more than 400 films from 1909 until his death. His pictures included "Hold Back the Night", "Restless Breed", and "Rivers Edge." Allan Dwan died of heart failure on December 21, 1981 at the age of 96.
Fernald began his career as a journalist and actor, and later became a stage manager and director. After serving in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve during World War II, Fernald, became a director of several theater groups and wrote several articles and books including "The Play Produced," "Destroyer from America," and "Sense of Direction."
C.P. Arnold was an early resident of Laramie, Wyoming. He was a lawyer, Democratic politician and businessman and the father of Thurman Arnold (Pres. Roosevelt's well-known trust buster).
Richard B. McGinnis (b. 1879) was a consulting mining engineer. He began his career in 1898 as an assayer and chemist. He worked for various mining companies and engineering firms before establishing his own consulting firm in 1927. Most of his work was in the Western United States and Canada, but also included South America, Mexico, and Africa.
Edward T. Devine, an author, lecturer and social worker, was a professor at Columbia University from 1905-1919, secretary of the Charity Organization Society of New York, dean of the graduate school of American University, and chairman of the committee on revision of a statement on social ideals for the National Council of the Churches of Christ in America from 1930-1932. Devine was involved in American Red Cross relief efforts following the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, in Russia in 1916 and in France in 1917-1918.
Anderson (d. 1976), an actor, was most noted for starring in the television programs "The Line-up" and "Peyton Place."
Robert Olney Easton, prominent author and environmental activist, was born in San Francisco, California in 1915. He was the son of Robert Easton Sr. and Ethel Olney Easton. He was also the grandson of Warren Olney, one of the founders of the Sierra Club. Easton attended Stanford University in 1933 and 1934 and earned his bachelor’s degree in English from Harvard University in 1938. Between 1938 and 1939, Easton did postgraduate work at Stanford University.
Easton’s literary career began in 1939, when he became associate editor of Coast Magazine. He became a professional free-lance writer in 1941 and published a series of short stories in The Atlantic a year later. Easton’s first book, The Happy Man, was published in 1943. A modern western novel based upon his experiences as a California ranch hand, it was well received by critics and established him as a literary talent. Easton enlisted in the Army during World War II and saw combat in Germany.
Between 1946 and 1950, Easton co-founded and co-edited the Lampasas (Texas) Dispatch. He continued to free-lance throughout the late 1940s and 1950s, contributing short stories to magazines such as Colliers, True, and The Saturday Evening Post. Of particular interest are his stories about Fred Meyer Schroder, an American adventurer who traveled in California, the Yukon, and China, between the 1890s and 1917. Published in True and The Saturday Evening Post, these stories were the foundation of his later works on Schroder.
Easton broadened the scope of his writing during the 1960s. Lord of the Beasts, a biography of American adventurer Charles “Buffalo” Jones co-written with MacKenzie Brown, was published in 1961. In 1963, his article Guns of the American West appeared in The Book of the American West. That same year, he wrote the unpublished article Right Turn in the Rockies, a study of the political far right in the Rocky Mountain region. The Hearing, a novel about the Red Scare of the 1950s, and California Condor: Vanishing American, a book concerning the threatened extinction of the California condor (co-written with Dick Smith), were published in 1964. Easton also edited the anthology Max Brand’s Best Stories (1967) and with MacKenzie Brown, co-edited Bullying the Moqui (1969), which concerned Charles F. Lummis and his exposure of abuses on the Hopi Indian Reservation.
Easton continued to be a productive writer for the duration of his life. Max Brand: The Big Westerner (1970) is a biography of Easton’s father-in-law Frederick Faust, a famed western writer. Black Tide: The Santa Barbara Oil Spill and Its Consequences (1972) was his second work exemplifying his concern with environmental issues. After years of research, Easton wrote two books in succession about Fred Meyer Schroder, Guns, Gold, and Caravans (1978) and China Caravans: An American Adventurer in Old China (1982). Easton turned to historical fiction in the 1980s and 1990s, writing the Saga of California trilogy: This Promised Land (1982), The Power and the Glory (1989), and Blood and Money (1998). He also co-wrote and co-edited three works with his wife Jane Easton: Love and War (1991), Max Brand’s Best Poems (1992), and Collected Stories of Max Brand (1994).
Robert Easton married Jane Faust, the daughter of western writer Frederick Faust (Max Brand) in 1940. They had four daughters: Joan, Katherine, Ellen, and Jane. In addition to his literary activity, Easton was an English instructor at Santa Barbara City College (1959-1965) and a writing and publishing consultant with the U.S. Naval Civil Engineering Laboratory in Port Hueme, California (1961-1969). He was involved in efforts to save the California condor from extinction, helping to found refuges for this bird at Sisquoc Sanctuary (1937) and Los Padres National Forest (1968). He was also active in the civic and environmental affairs of Santa Barbara, California, his adopted hometown.
Robert Olney Easton passed away on November 14, 1999.
The Pearl Harbor Survivors Association (PHSA) was founded in 1958 and first incorporated in California in 1961. It was incorporated nationally in 1973, which, in that year, the Association comprised more than 5,000 members and 100 chapters throughout the United States. On December 7, 2011, during the 70th anniversary ceremony in Hawaii of the attack on Pearl Harbor, William Muehleib, the President of the PHSA, announced that due to the ages and health of the 2,700 members, the executive board had decided to terminate the corporate association as of December 31 of that year. The Pearl Harbor-Gram closed its membership in February 2012. However, informal social and local activities involving Pearl Harbor survivors were to continue. Peak membership for the association was 18,000 members nationally and more than 70,000 members worldwide.
Cooper emigrated to Wyoming from England around 1874 and established a ranch in what is now Carbon and Albany Counties, Wyoming.
Estelle Hill LaMar was a pianist, music teacher, and composer of orchestral music from the 1920s to the 1950s. She studied music at the Chicago Conservatory under the direction of Frederick Grant Gleason, S.L. Weiss, Walton Perkins, and Walter Keller. Her music was primarily performed in the city of Houston, Texas, where she lived her married life with Robert LaMar.
M. Marion Marberry (1908- ) a journalist and writer, worked as a sports reporter for "Chicago Times" and the "New York World Telegram" before writing several books, including "Splendid Poseur: Joaquin Miller, Poet" (1953), "Vicki: A Biography of Victoria C. Woodhull" (1967), and written jointly with Ted Jordan, "Fool's Gold: An Unrefined Account of Alaska in 1899" (1960).
Fennelly (1899-1975) was an investment banker in Chicago, Illinois.
Frederick Hutchinson "Bunk" Porter (1890-1976) was an architect in Cheyenne, Wyoming, where he was associated with the firm Baerrensen & Porter (1915-1921), F.H. Porter (1921-1944), Porter & Bradley (1944-1961), and Porter, Porter & Graves (1961-1965). He designed residential, commercial and public buildings throughout Wyoming. Among these were the federal building in Cheyenne and 40 buildings on the University of Wyoming campus in Laramie, Wyoming. He was also a water color painter whose works won numerous awards at Cheyenne fairs and exhibitions.
Richard de Rochemont (1903-1982) was a motion picture producer and director during the twentieth century. Born in Boston, Massachusetts, and educated at Harvard University, De Rochemont started his motion picture career as a foreign editor for Fox-Movietone News (1930-1934). He joined Time Incorporated's March of Time film series, produced by Richard's brother Louis De Rochemont, in 1934 and enjoyed a notable career with this newsreel series, serving as European correspondent and managing director (1934-1940), managing director in New York City (1940-1943), and executive producer (1943-1951). As executive producer, he won an Academy Award for his production of the March of Time film "A Chance to Live" (1949). In 1955, De Rochemont founded his own film production company, Vavin Incorporated, and produced instructional films for a number of organizations between the mid 1950s and early 1980s, including the Reader's Digest Association and the French Government Tourist Office. In addition to his work in the film industry, De Rochemont was the author of several cookbooks, including Contemporary French Cooking (1962), The Pets' Cookbook (1964), and Eating in America (1976).
Henry King was a pioneer in the American motion picture industry. He began his career as a film actor in 1912. He moved to California, where he began directing in 1915. His first major Hollywood success was “23 ½ Hours Leave” (1920). King made at least one film a year during the next forty years, working primarily for 20th Century Fox. His final film was “Tender Is the Night” (1961).
Davis was born in Ireland and came to the U.S. in 1871 and began working for the trading company of J.W. Hugus & Company at Fort Fred Steele in Carbon County, Wyoming. In 1879 Davis accompanied Major Thomas T. Thornburg to assist at the White River Indian Agency in Colorado. Davis was wounded in the foot when the expedition was ambushed by Ute Indians near Milk Creek in what is now Moffatt County, Colorado. Davis later became an executive with J.W. Hugus & Company, which expanded into merchandising and banking in Wyoming and Colorado.
Garrett W. Price was born in Bucyrus, Kansas in 1895. Garrett's father was a doctor and his practice took the family to several Western states, finally settling in Saratoga, Wyoming. Early on, Garrett showed an aptitude for drawing. His first cartoon was published by the "Saratoga Sun" in 1912. He entered the University of Wyoming in 1912 where he studied for two years before entering the Chicago Institute of Art. After graduating from there he was hired by the Art Department of the "Chicago Tribune" where he worked from 1916 to 1925. He illustrated stories for the Sunday Magazine, made two cartoons daily for the sports column, made one illustration a day for a serial, and laid out the roto section. Garrett also contributed some poetry to the "Tribune", but never under his own name. During World War I, he also found time to be the editorial cartoonist for the "Great Lakes Navy Bulletin". He then decided to move to New York to work as a freelance artist. He had much success furnishing cartoons, illustrations, and cover art for the fledgling magazines "Life" and "The New Yorker". He also contributed to "Look", "Colliers", "Harper's Bazaar", "Saturday Evening Post", "Good Housekeeping", "Promenade", "Esquire", and others, but his most important work was with the "New Yorker", which put him under contract. He worked with "The New Yorker" for more than forty years giving them nearly 100 covers and several hundred cartoons. While living in New York he met Florence Semler. They were married in 1928 and continued to live in New York until they moved to Westport, Connecticut, where they spent the remainder of their days. When "Look" and "Colliers", two of Garrett's mainstays, shut down, Garrett began to submit more of his work to "Saturday Evening Post" and "Sports Illustrated". He also found time to illustrate several children's books and do a weekly cartoon for the Westport "Town Crier" called "Price Tags". Garrett spent the last few years of his life painting watercolors and relaxing in his Connecticut home. He died in 1979. 
James W. Odell was a geologist who was involved in mining exploration in Tennessee, Missouri and Colorado.
The International Cowboy Association was formed in 1939 in Billings, Montana, as a social organization of former and current cowboys and ranchers who had worked on ranches or in cattle drives from 1880-1900. The Association's goals were to perpetuate the memory and traditions of the "Old West."
Nellie L. Wales was a resident of Thermopolis, Wyoming.
Richard H. Wilson (d. 1937) was an army officer who served with the U.S. Eighth Infantry. He was probably stationed at Fort McKinney, Wyoming, before it closed in 1894. In 1895, he was posted to the Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming, where he served as Indian agent. In 1898, with the outbreak of the Spanish-American War, he was recalled to regular army service and saw action in Cuba.
Len L. Newton was a Wyoming newspaperman and historian of the Fremont County area. He was born in Wyanet, Illinois, in 1877 and came to Cody, Wyoming, in 1901 to work as a printer on the Cody Enterprise. Later, in association with his father, he established the Northern Wyoming Herald which eventually consolidated with the Cody Enterprise. In 1924 he sold his interest in the Enterprise and bought the Wyoming State Journal located in Lander, Wyoming. He was appointed by Governor Robert Carey to supervise the first bond issue for the state highway system. Governor Frank Emerson appointed him director of the Wyoming State Department of Commerce and Industry in 1929. Newton sold the Wyoming State Journal to his son, Ernest L. Newton, in 1938. During World War II he worked as editor of the Alliance, Nebraska, Times Herald. Newton took great interest in the early history of Wyoming, particularly the Lander and Fremont County area. He was active in Republican politics and outspoken on controversial questions of his time. L.L. Newton died in Lander at the age of 76 on July 20, 1954.
Howard A. Meyerhoff (1899-1982), a geologist, was professor of geology at Smith College from 1925-1949, administrative secretary and chair of the editorial board for the American Association for the Advancement of Science from 1949-1953, a member of the Scientific Manpower Commission from 1953-1965, and head of the Geology Department at the University of Pennsylvania from 1962-1967. He was also chairman of the board of Propper-McCallum Hosiery Co. from 1938-1947, a mediator for the National War Labor Board from 1943-1944, a founder of GeoSurveys, Inc., an expert on copyright, a founder of the Northeastern Section of the Geological Society of America, an investor in mining ventures and a consultant. Meyerhoff was an authority on the geology of Puerto Rico and the Caribbean Basin and a critic of the plate tectonic and continental drift theories. He was author of numerous articles, including some co-authored by his son A.A. Meyerhoff.
Western Writers of America was founded in 1953 to promote literature pertaining to the American West. Although the founders wrote mainly western fiction, other members included historians and non-fiction writers. The WWA presented annual Spur Awards for distinguished writing in several categories and an annual Owen Wister Award for lifelong contributions to the field of western literature.
The William Clayton Chapter of the National Society of the Daughters of the American Colonists was founded in Laramie, Wyoming, in 1953 with the purpose of commemorating the American colonists and researching the members’ family genealogy. Members were expected to demonstrate that they had at least one ancestor who resided in the country before the creation of the United States of America.
Rex B. Magee (d. 1965) did personal research on the Civil War.
David C. Brooks (d. 1982) was a collector of automobile memorabilia.
Unger (1905-1970) was a lyricist for Broadway musicals including "Three Little Girls" and "Vanities of 1930." Her film credits include "Where the Boys Are" and "The Courtship of Eddie's Father."
Hamilton was a graphic artist and designer with "Time" magazine and Time-Life Books from 1942-1967 and also a consultant.
John Finnegan of Butte, Montana was actively involved in conservative politics. He was state chairman of the Constitutional Party, resigning this position in 1970. He also ran unsuccessfully for the Montana House of Representatives in 1970 as an independent. Political causes espoused by Finnegan included abolishment of the Federal Reserve System, resignation of the United States from the United Nations, an end to urban renewal programs, and halting efforts toward regional governmental consolidation and cooperation.
Robert S. Anderson and a group of friends from Butte, Montana, attempted to develop petroleum prospects in the Devil’s Basin area of Montana in 1916. The group organized the Montana Cycle Oil Company, invested money to bring in geologist Gordon Campbell, and leased about 12,000 acres. Although a drilling rig was brought in, the under-capitalized association was unable to find profitable oil.
Addison A. Spaugh was a Wyoming rancher and businessman. He was born in Indiana in 1857 and arrived in Wyoming with a trail herd of Texas cattle in 1874. From 1879 he was employed by Manville & Peck, founders of the OW brand on Hat Creek. He became foreman of the Converse Cattle Company in 1880; and in 1885 he began ranching on his own near the town of Manville (which he named), expanding rapidly by buying ranches and brands both north and south of Manville. He acquired the 77 and the Horseshoe ranches from T.B. Hord about 1897. In 1910 he began to divest himself of range interests and by 1917 had turned to banking in an effort to build up the town of Keeline, which he had platted. He held interests in banks in Glenrock, Cheyenne, and Douglas, but sold them as a result of pressures in World War I. In 1913 Spaugh and H.B. Card acquired the Jireh Record, which they published for a time together with the Keeline Courier. Spaugh was also interested in the development of the Lance Creek oil field. In 1929, however, Spaugh declared bankruptcy. In 1941 he retired altogether from management of his remaining ranch interests. He first married Estella R. Bailey. His second wife, Marguerite, who survived him, later married A.G. Underwood. Addison A. Spaugh died in Denver in 1943 and was buried in Manville, Wyoming.
Harold L. Bache spent his entire career in the family brokerage firm in New York City except for service as an infantry lieutenant with the U.S. 77th Division in France during World War I. He joined J.S. Bache & Co. (later renamed Bache & Co.) in 1914 as a runner, became president in 1945 and remained in control of the company until his death at age 73.
Medora Steedman Bass graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1959 with an M.A. in psychology, specializing in human sexuality and the mentally handicapped. She later worked for Planned Parenthood of Philadelphia and was vice-president of the Association for Voluntary Sterilization (AVS), which promotes voluntary sterilization for the mentally handicapped.
Wishart (b. 1834) was a lieutenant with the U.S. Army's 27th Infantry Regiment. In 1867 he was assigned to Fort Phil Kearny, Wyoming.
William W. McClellan was an employee of the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs in New Mexico for over 30 years. He joined the BIA in 1927 as a general foreman for irrigation at the Shiprock Agency and in 1937 transferred to a similar position at the Navajo Agency. In 1941, he became the Agricultural Extension Agent at the United Pueblo Agency. He supervised the irrigation systems of the Hogback Irrigation Project at the Shiprock Agency.
Gilbert Haven Cady (1882-1970), received his Ph. D. in geology from the University of Chicago in 1917. He worked summers, and later full time, for the Illinois Geological Survey (1907-1919). Cady went to China from 1919-1920 to survey the Ming Kwang Mining Area in Western Yunnan Province for the New York Orient Mines Company. He worked as a geologist in Arkansas (1920-1926) and as senior geologist and head of the coal division of the Illinois Geological Survey from 1926-1951.
Ellis L. Armstrong (1914- ), an engineer, worked on water resource development in the western United States. He worked for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation from 1936-1954 and was a project engineer on the St. Lawrence Seaway project from 1954-1957. From 1958-1961 he was the U.S. Commissioner of Public Roads and returned to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation as Commissioner in 1968. In 1973 he left the Bureau to found Ellis Armstrong Associates, an engineering consulting firm.
William Fahnestock was a resident of New York, New York. His father, William Fahnestock, Sr., founded Fahnestock and Co., and his son became its senior partner 1936. He was a collector of Western Americana and took great interest in Wyoming.
Frazee operated "The Leader," a dry goods, clothing and furnishings store in Laramie, Wyoming.
Al Christie started working for the Nestor Film Company in 1909. Nestor was based in New Jersey, but in 1911 Christie moved to California to open a studio for Nestor on the west coast. This was the first movie studio in Hollywood. Al Christie founded Christie Film Company with his brother Charles Christie in 1916. The company was best known for producing Christie Comedies. Many of these productions were two-reel shorts, but the company also produced full-length features. Christie Film Company ceased production in 1933.
W.L. Connelly (1873-1964) was a pioneer of the American oil industry, whose career spanned 73 years. He drilled his first well in 1895 in Wood County, Ohio. He did oil work in Montgomery County, Kansas from 1903-1905. In early 1906 he became associated with Harry F. Sinclair. Connelly moved to Tulsa Oklahoma with Sinclair in 1912. In 1916 he was one of the founders of Sinclair Oil and Refining Company and became president of the subsidiary Sinclair-Cudahy Pipeline Company. He moved to Houston in 1917, where he was vice president of Sinclair Gulf Oil Corporation with responsibility for operations in Mexico. Between 1922 and 1928 he was stationed in Casper, Wyoming, as president of Mammoth Oil Company. This was during the period of the Teapot Dome scandal. He was then promoted to vice president of Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corporation and president of Venezuelan Petroleum Corporation. In this capacity he oversaw operations in Mexico, Venezuela, and Africa from a base in New York City. In 1932 Sinclair Oil merged with Prairie Oil and Gas Company, and Connelly became chairman of the board (1932-1950).
William L. Connelly married Elizabeth Conlisk in Toledo, Ohio, in 1898. The couple had a daughter and a son. In 1933 he received the rank of Knight Commander of the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre from Pope Pius XI. Connelly published a book on his experiences in the oil industry, "The Oil Business As I Saw It," in 1955. During his life he traveled to Europe, Russia, Turkey, South America, Mexico, and the Caribbean to pursue business, as well as to pursue his favorite hobby of fishing.
Carroll Baker (b. 1931) was an actress, primarily in motion pictures. Her work included "Baby Doll," "But Not for Me," "Giant," "The Miracle," "How the West Was Won," "Bridge to the Sun," "Something Wild," "The Carpetbaggers," "Cheyenne Autumn," and others. Carroll Baker also authored three books: "Baby Doll, An Autobiography," (1983) "A Roman Tale, "(1985) and "To Africa with Love," (1985).
William C. Alden (b. 1871) was a geologist for the United States Geological Survey during the first half of the twentieth century. Alden was an expert on glacial geology and conducted extensive research on glacial geology in the Midwest (including Wisconsin and Iowa) and the West (including Montana and Wyoming). He was a noted authority on the glacial geology of Glacier National Park in Montana. Alden was also an active member of the Geological Society of America and was the author of several books concerning glacial geology, including "Geology of Glacier National Park" (1942).
Arthur B. Nolan was a Pan American Airlines radio operator. He was a member of the crew that constructed radio stations to guide planes across the Pacific and was stationed in Guam in 1934-1935. Pan American Airlines' China Clipper made its first transpacific crossing in November-December, 1935. The Martin M-130 flew from California to Manila and back. Stops were made at Honolulu, Midway, Wake, and Guam.
Mrs. E. Frost was a Wyoming resident.
Ethelbert Talbot (1848-1928) was born in Missouri. He graduated from Dartmouth College and the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church and began his clerical career as rector of the Episcopal Church in Macon, Missouri, in 1873. In 1887 he was elected missionary bishop of Wyoming and Idaho, an office which required him to travel great distances through thinly-populated country often under difficult conditions. There were at that time only four Episcopal clergymen at work in Wyoming and only six church buildings. Bishop Talbot chose Laramie, Wyoming, as his see city, and he oversaw the building of St. Matthew's cathedral there between 1892 and 1897. In 1898 he was chosen bishop of Central Pennsylvania and went to live in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. In 1924, he became Presiding Bishop of the Church. Ethelbert Talbot married Dora Harvey (1850-1920), and they were the parents of one daughter, Anne Harvey Talbot (Donaldson) (b. 1875). 
This drugstore operated in Laramie, Wyoming from about 1905-1963.
Ward Walker Husted was born June 20, 1895, in Galesburg, Illinois. He graduated from Lombard College in Galesburg in 1917. After serving in the aviation section of the U.S. Signal Corps during World War I, Husted moved to St. Joseph, Missouri, to begin his career in the gas industry. In 1929, he moved to Laramie, Wyoming, to manage the Laramie Gas Company. While in Laramie, Husted involved himself in numerous community service organizations including the Booster Club, the Jesters, the American Legion, and the Elks Club. He received the Laramie Daily Boomerang-Laramie Lions Club Community Service Award in 1959. Husted brought the first natural gas pipeline to Laramie in 1933. He was also a member of the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority in the 1970s, which encouraged his interest in Navajo life and history. During the Lincoln and Douglas Debates Centennial and Carl Sandburg Celebration, Husted returned to Galesburg to participate in the events. He died 2 September 1986.
Wilhelm G. Solheim (1924- ) conducted extensive anthropological work in southeast Asia. He graduated from the University of Wyoming in 1957, earned his Ph. D. from the University of Arizona in 1960 and became professor of anthropology at the University of Hawaii. Solheim also served as editor of "Asian Perspectives."
Pressman was a television and theatrical director. His work included the television programs "The Actor's Studio" and "Esso Repertory Theatre."
Seligman (1918-1969) was a lawyer turned television and motion picture producer. During the 1950s Seligman served as a vice president of the American Broadcasting Company and the General Manager of KABC-TV in Los Angeles, California. In 1961 he founded the production company Selmur Productions. He was perhaps best known for producing the television series “Combat!” and the movie “Charly.”
Martin Olson (b. 1880) came to Wyoming from his native Norway in 1898. He worked in lumber camps in southern Wyoming and was employed by the Wyoming Tie & Timber Company in Riverton and Dubois, Wyoming, from 1916 to 1947. He served as a Fremont (Wyoming) County commissioner from 1954 to 1960.
Simon (1888-1971) was born in Leeds, England, and came to the United States at age nine. He was a pianist for 20 years with the Meyer Davis organization, worked for the National Broadcasting Company for many years, played on radio and television shows, and wrote for the Broadway musical theater.
Ruskin was a screenwriter who wrote for the "Dr. Kildare" and "Andy Hardy" film series during the 1930s and 1940s. He also wrote the motion pictures "Married before Breakfast" (1937), "Love Is a Headache" (1938), "Beg, Borrow or Steal" (1937), and "Paradise for Three" (1939).
Carl J. Sigfrid practiced law in Ouray, Colorado from 1895-1956. Along with Lyman I. Henry, he established the Henry & Sigfrid Law Firm in 1895 and practiced law independently after 1924.
A.G. (Alonzo G.) Setter was vice president and later president of the New York Oil Company, which operated oil wells in Wyoming. Setter resided in Cattaraugus, New York.
Oscar A. Thompson was involved in oil drilling activity in Wyoming and Montana.
Behre Dolbear & Company, Inc. was founded in 1911, based in New York City, and operated continuously in the 20th century and on into the 21st century. The company specialized in consulting for major and junior mining companies, lenders, government agencies, Native American tribes, and mineral and other landholding companies. The operations were worldwide.
Hugo Butler began writing for the movies in Hollywood in 1937. He wrote screenplays for Huckleberry Finn (1939), Lassie Come Home (1943), and Robinson Crusoe (1954). He was nominated for an Academy Award for Edison the Man (1940). In 1951 Butler and his wife, Jean Rouverol, moved to Mexico as a result of blacklisting in Hollywood. Butler wrote documentary screenplays and worked with film director Luis Buñuel while in Mexico. For a time he lived in Italy to work on The Last Days of Sodom and Gomorrah. In 1964 the family returned to California. Butler and Jean Rouverol were working together on the screenplay of The Legend of Lilah Clare when Butler died in 1968.
Mildred Stead Capron (1899-1978) was a photographer, author, and member of the Society of Women Geographers, 1955-1978. Her publications included: "Wyoming Indians, Describing the Work of the Episcopal Church in Wyoming amongst the Shoshone and Arapaho Tribes" (1944) and "Prayers at Christmas" (1944). After arriving in Wyoming in 1935, she lived on the Arapaho Reservation. She lived in Moose, Wyoming in Teton County where she operated Capron Film Productions on the Murie Ranch. She corresponded with the noted photographer, Maragaret Bourke-White, 1963-1971. She was a friend of Mardy and Olaus Murie, noted Wyoming conservationists whose views she shared.
Frank H. Allyn was the first engineering graduate of the University of Wyoming, a draftsman in the U.S. Surveyor General's office in Cheyenne, an early homesteader of the Riverton Valley, and postmaster of Riverton, Wyoming, from 1907 to 1914. He retired from the Wyoming State Highway Department in 1949, having worked in its drafting office since 1920.
Alvy Dixon was a prominent rancher in Albany and Carbon Counties, Wyoming, having homesteaded on 160 acres near McFadden in 1888. He was treasurer of School District #24, Rockdale, ca. 1903, president of First National Bank of Rock River ca. 1920 and water commissioner of Wyoming District #2, Division #1 ca. 1917-1925.
Daniel E. Doody was the cinematographer on the 1963 American expedition to Mount Everest, which was the first successful American attempt to reach the top. Doody contracted thrombophlebitis and did not reach the summit. In 1965 Doody was killed by a fall on the slopes of Mount Washington in New Hampshire.
Tex Jordan was a collector of western movie, rodeo, and wild west show images and memorabilia. His subjects of interest included Jane Bernoudy and Art Acord. Jordan also researched and published about boxing, the 6th and 7th Cavalries, and the frontier West.
D. B. Newton was a western novelist who began writing short stories for magazines while studying for his master’s degree. He wrote under various other pseudonyms, publishing 74 novels over the course of his career. He was one of the founders of Western Writers of America when it formed between 1952 and 1953.
Harry R. Hammerle was associated with Gulf Oil Corporation for 43 years, primarily in the foreign sales division. During World War II Hammerle negotiated sales with allied nations. After the war, he was involved with oil imports from Kuwait.
Sally Rowlett resided in Atascadero, California. She a collector of fine antiques.
Boyd V. Osborn (1891-1970) was a safety engineer. He came to Basin, Wyoming in 1916 as editor of the Basin "Republican." From 1918-1921, he worked as a warehouse clerk for Ohio Oil Company at Grass Creek, Wyoming. He joined Standard Oil Company of Indiana in Casper, Wyoming in 1921, and became director of safety at its Casper refinery in 1923. In 1938, he became Standard Oil's Supervisor of Labor Relations and Safety Director for the Casper area. He was instrumental in the passage of Wyoming's first Workman's Compensation Law and lectured on individual safety throughout the Rocky Mountain region.
Ruth Alexander was a conservative writer and lecturer. She was associate editor of "Finance" from 1942-1944, participated in several of the American Economic Foundation's "Wake Up, America!" radio broadcasts from 1940-1946, and was an editorial columnist for the New York "Mirror" from 1944-1963. She wrote a weekly column entitled "Our America" from the 1950s to early 1970s. Alexander also had a short career as a concert pianist from 1929-1930.
Lucille Nichols Patrick (1924-2003), an author and artist, was born in Illinois, but settled in the Cody, Wyoming, area, where her father, James Calvin Nichols had business interests. Among her books were "The Best Little Town by a Dam Site : or Cody's First 20 Years," "The Candy Kid : James Calvin 'Kid' Nichols, 1883-1962," and "Caroline Lockhart, Liberated Lady, 1870-1962" (published under the name Lucille Patrick Hicks). She also edited "The Park County [Wyoming] Story" under the name Lucille N. Hicks.
James Calvin Nichols (1883-1962) was a professional wrestler known as "The Kid" and the "Candy Kid" in his youth. After working for a paper company in Chicago, Illinois, he established his own plywood and veneer business around 1920. He owned plywood and related businesses in Illinois, Georgia, Mississippi and Wyoming, where he established Nichols Industries in Cody. He bought the Diamond Bar Ranch near Cody around 1926.
Fenimore Chatterton was born in New York and came to Wyoming in 1878 to work as a sutler at Fort Steele. He later operated a general store in Saratoga, Wyoming, and was elected as a state senator in 1890 for Carbon and Niobrara counties. From 1891-1892 Chatterton attended the University of Michigan’s law school and from 1894-1898 he served as Carbon County attorney. In 1898 he was elected secretary of state and served as acting governor from April 1903 to January 1905 to fill the term of DeForest Richards, who died in office.
In 1906 he moved to Riverton, Wyoming, where he practiced law and was also involved in water development projects in Fremont County for the Wyoming Central Irrigation Company. He served on the Wyoming Public Service Commission from 1927-1933 and retired to Arvada, Colorado in 1937. He was married to Stella Wyland and they had two daughters, Eleanor and Constance.
Van Cleave was a conductor, composer, and arranger for motion pictures, radio, and television. His 1940s radio series included "The Man Behind the Gun," "This Is Our Enemy," "Variations by Van Cleave," and "Radio Reader's Digest." Van Cleave's television work included "Perry Mason," "The Twilight Zone," "Gunsmoke," and "Have Gun, Will Travel." His motion picture work included "Anything Goes," "White Christmas," and "Fancy Pants."
George Jackson Mead began his career in aviation as an experimental engineer with Sterling Engine Company in 1916. He worked in the same capacity for Wright-Martin Aircraft, 1916-1919. He was chief engineer for Wright Aeronautical Corporation, 1920-1925 and then was vice-president of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Company, 1925-1929. He helped to found and worked for United Aircraft Corporation through the 1930s. In 1939 he won the Sylvanus Albert Reed Award from the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences for the design and development of high output aircraft engines. He was special assistant to William S. Knudson during World War II.
George Henry Ellis (1884- ) served as an engineer with the U.S. Reclamation Service from 1907-1920 and from 1920-1925 with the Montana State Engineer's Office. He worked as a hydrological engineer with the Middle West Utilities Company from 1923-1929 before returning to the U.S. Reclamation Service in 1930. Ellis worked on the Shoshone Project in Wyoming and the Sun River Project in Montana while with the Reclamation Service from 1908-1915.
Clayton O. Crane (1908- ) worked for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation from 1936-1967 as an engineer. He was the project engineer for the Washita Project in Oklahoma from 1957-1961 and the Canadian River Dam Project near Amarillo, Texas from 1961-1966.
William Henry Isom (1859-1929) was president of Sinclair Refining Company. He went to work for Michael Cudahy as manager of the North American Transportation and Trading Company in the 1890s. He was made president of Cudahy Refining Company in 1908. In 1916 the company was acquired by H.F. Sinclair and renamed Sinclair Refining Company. Isom retained the presidency until his death in 1929.
Robert D. Bedinger was an American military pilot and civil aeronautics official. He received pilot training in France in 1917 and became an instructor during World War I. He engaged in barnstorming in the West Indies during the 1920s. During World War II he was called up from reserve and served with the Air Transport Command. He later worked for the Civil Aeronautics Administration in the western United States and Alaska.
Donald Stanfield was a resident of Cheyenne, Wyoming. He was involved with a variety of local Cheyenne businesses.
Renaldo (1904-1980) was an actor noted for his most popular role as the "Cisco Kid," whom he played in twelve films and in 156 television episodes. He was orphaned at an early age and raised by relatives in Europe. Renaldo began his acting career in the United States in the 1920s on stage and in silent movies. Because of Renaldo's own uncertainty surrounding the facts of his birth and nationality, he became involved in a trial in 1931 relating to his legal status and citizenship. He was later charged with making false statements on his passport and served eighteen months in prison. Renaldo was formally pardoned by President Roosevelt and released in 1936.
Renaldo managed to regain status as an actor and was cast in several films including "For Whom the Bell Tolls" in 1941. In 1946 he was offered the film role of the "Cisco Kid" and went on to play the role on radio and television.
Joseph R. Drake served as vice-president of the Hupp Motor Car Company which he co-founded with his brother John Walter Drake in 1908. He traveled around the world in a Hupmobile from 1910-1912 and set up dealerships in many foreign locales.
James Lawrence Kilgallen had a career in journalism that spanned seventy-seven years. Born in 1888 in Pittston, Pennsylvania, Kilgallen started working as a reporter in 1903 for the "Chicago Daily Farmers and Drovers Journal." Kilgallen assumed half ownership and editorial duties of the "Laramie Daily Boomerang" in 1913 and served in that capacity until 1914, when he became editor of the "Indianapolis Daily Times." Kilgallen worked briefly for United Press International and the Associated Press before serving with the International News Service from 1920-1958. In 1958 the International News Service merged with United Press International. Kilgallen spent 1960-1966 with the "New York Journal American" before it folded. Kilgallen served with the Hearst Headline Service from 1966 until his retirement in 1981.
Kilgallen covered national and international stories, including the 1919 World Series Black Sox Scandal; the Lindberg-Hauptman trial (1932-1936) for the kidnapping of the Lindberg baby; the surrender of Germany at Rheims, France in 1945; the Bikini atoll atomic bomb tests; and the Alger Hiss trial in 1948. Kilgallen also interviewed such notables as Henry Ford, John D. Rockefeller, Thomas Edison, Al Capone, Winston Churchill and Bernard Baruch.
Kilgallen was married to Mae Ahern of Denver in 1912. Their daughter, Dorothy Kilgallen, was also a reporter for the "New York Journal American" before her death in 1965.
Ray J. Green was an air mail pioneer. He left U.S. Air Mail and began working on the S.S. Leviathan, a luxury ocean liner. In 1936, he was a traffic controller for the Civil Aviation Authority in Denver.
Nye was a prolific author of Western novels. He was co-founder of the Western Writers of America and served as president in 1953 and in 1960-1961. He received the WWA's "Spur" award for best Western novel in 1959. Nye was also a quarter horse enthusiast. He raised horses and wrote many articles on quarter horses and horse racing.
Roscoe Harold Alcorn was a newspaper publisher in Rawlins, Wyoming, and a Republican politician who served in the Wyoming legislature in 1921, 1923 and 1925. He also served as state auditor from 1929 to 1931.
Edward Lyman Munson (1904-1967) organized and operated the Army Research branch of the War Department (1941-1942), organized and operated the Army Information Division, and was chief of the Army Pictorial Service. Following his retirement from the military, he was director of the NBC Film Division, an executive in the motion picture industry, and director of Television Operations of NBC Television.
Edward D. Lynton (b 1912) was a mining engineer and geologist in Mexico and Arizona from 1915-1920. From 1920-1943 he was employed by Standard Oil of California as a field geologist in California and Texas, conducting magnetometer surveys and petroleum prospecting. From 1943-1944 he worked for the North African Economic Board to help develop oil and mining companies. Lynton served as a petroleum consultant to the Institute of Petroleum in Paris from 1946-1948. From 1948-1958 he was a mining and petroleum consultant, examining mines and oil fields in California, Germany, Portugal, Ireland and Africa.
David H. Scott began collecting recordings of Eddy Duchin’s music and radio shows in 1933. He completed the collection in 1977.
Draper served on the Federal Power Commission from 1930-1951 and was from Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Frank H. Mitchell was a mining engineer.
Donald H. Coffeen was a Sheridan, Wyoming, resident and collector of historical photographs.
Allen Boyer McDaniel (b. 1879), graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1901 and was the principal engineer of the Construction Division of the U.S. Army from 1918-1920. From 1924-1934 he was director of The Research Service Inc., an engineering consulting firm and from 1934-1947 he was an independent consulting engineer.
Coe (1888-1970) was a parish minister of Congregational churches in Somerville, Massachusetts, Waterbury, Connecticut, and Oak Park, Illinois, before becoming president of the Massachusetts Congregational Christian Conference from 1949-1958. He was active in national church affairs, serving on various committees and as Moderator of the General Council of the Congregational Christian Churches of the United States from 1954-1956, during which time the decision was made to merge with the Evangelical and Reformed Church to form the United Church of Christ.
Mimi Benzell (1924-1972) was an American singer and radio talk show hostess during the twentieth century. Born in Bridgeport, Connecticut, Benzell started her show business career as a soprano opera singer and made a number of appearances with New York City's Metropolitan Opera Association during the 1940s. She moved into popular music in 1949 and enjoyed a long and notable career as a popular singer, giving numerous concert performances at night clubs and theaters between the late 1940s and 1960s and appearing in several musical theater productions, including the Broadway musical "Milk and Honey" (1961-1963) and the Off-Broadway plays "A Night on the Town" and "Show Boat". Benzell started singing in radio during the 1940s and made regular appearances on a number of popular radio shows during the 1950s, including "The Pet Milk Show" and "Railroad Hour" (1952-1954). Benzell also sang on a number of television shows during the 1950s a nd 1960s, including the "Mike Douglas Show" (1963). From 1964 to 1967, she was the hostess of WNBC New York's radio talk show "Luncheon with Mimi", in which she interviewed numerous celebrities, including Woody Allen and Nipsey Russell.
Burton, a Lake Geneva, Wisconsin businessman and mining financier, was originally from New York. He came to Lake Geneva in 1870, and after teaching school and running a newspaper, began investing in various businesses and industry. Working from his office in Milwaukee, Burton invested heavily in mining. In 1885 he started iron and copper mining operations in the Gogebic Range in northern Wisconsin and Michigan. He was also involved in gold and crystal mining in California, silver mining in Colorado and Mexico, and tin mining in Alaska.
Burton's businesses made him a millionaire. His hobby was collecting Abraham Lincoln books, manuscripts, and memorabilia, of which he amassed a huge collection. In the late 1890s Burton's mining businesses failed. He eventually lost his fortune and was forced to sell his collection of Lincolniana.
Roland W. Brown was born June 12, 1897 in Providence, Utah. In 1898, Brown’s father became the first U.S. Forest Ranger in Jackson Hole, Wyoming and later in Teton Valley. Brown grew up in Teton Valley and was one of the first 8th grade graduates of the Alta, Wyoming school in 1914, subsequently graduating from Teton High School in 1918. He attended the University of Wyoming during the summers from 1919 to 1923 and Albion State Normal School the summers of 1924 and 1925. For the next five years, he was a teacher and school principal at schools in Teton Valley and Jackson Hole. In 1924, his booklet, Souvenir History of Jackson Hole, was published, featuring S.N. Leek’s photographs of Jackson Hole. Brown homesteaded acreage in Teton Valley during his teaching career and, after his teaching career, worked in sales. In 1931, he married Hattie Wainwright (1901-1993). In 1938, Brown became an agent for the Beneficial Life Insurance Company in their Rexburg, Idaho office, where he was employed for more than 40 years. He, his wife, and two daughters traveled extensively in the United States, Europe, Canada, and Mexico. Brown kept notes of their experiences and turned them into travelogues published by local newspapers. Brown and his family were active members of the LDS Church in their region.
Henry Beckett (1889-1969) was a reporter with the New York Post from 1924 to 1968. During World War I he reported for the Cincinnati Post while serving in a cavalry unit and later participated in the Meuse-Argonne offensive. He interrupted his career to join the United States Army again in 1942 for the duration of World War II. Beckett also loved music and was a friend of social activist John Haynes Holmes.
T. Blake Kennedy (1874-1957) served as the U.S. District Court Judge of Wyoming from 1922-1955. Born in Oakland County, Michigan, Kennedy graduated from Franklin College, Franklin, Michigan, in 1895. He began practicing law in Syracuse, New York, with his partner Rodrick M. Matson. In 1901 Matson and Kennedy moved their practice to Cheyenne, Wyoming. One of their first cases was the defense of Tom Horn. Horn was accused of murdering a thirteen year old boy in 1901. Although, Kennedy lost the case, he and the other attorneys received a great deal of notoriety. In addition to his expanding law practice, Kennedy served as Referee in Bankruptcy for the State of Wyoming from 1903-1913. In 1906 he married Anna Lyons. He was temporarily appointed to serve as the federal judge presiding over U.S. District Court of Wyoming in 1921. In 1922, his appointment became permanent, and he held the position until his retirement in 1955. One of his most celebrated cases was the Teapot Dome Lawsuit, (United States vs. Mammoth Oil Company) in 1925. Kennedy also presided over other controversial cases that were reported across the country. He was also occasionally temporarily assigned to Washington DC, Colorado, New Mexico, and Kansas. Judge and Mrs. Kennedy were childless and frequently traveled both within and without the United States. He was active in local, state, and national Republican Party politics. Prior to his judgeship, he held the position of State Chairman for the Republican Party. His other activities included membership in the Masonic Lodge and other civic groups including a literary society and the Frontier Day Heels. In 1951, he received an honorary Ph.D. from the University of Wyoming. Although he retired in November of 1955, he would continue to occasionally fill in for judges or write opinions. 
G. D. Ashabranner worked primarily as an oil and gas attorney in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. He also wrote western novels under the pseudonym Dan Kirby.
Lyn Murray (1909-1989) was a conductor, arranger, and producer responsible for writing musical scores for radio, television and motion pictures, and Broadway theatrical productions. In 1950, he moved to Hollywood and began composing scores for feature films, including "The Prowler" (1951), "To Catch a Thief" (1955), and "The Miracle" (1959). His scores for television shows include "The Virginian" (1962), "Daniel Boone" (1964), "The Time Tunnel" (1966) and "Dragnet" (1967). He won an Emmy in 1986 for his score to the National Geographic special "Miraculous Machines."
T.A. and Amelia Kent were settlers in the Wyoming Territory. They came to Cheyenne in 1867 where he became a business man dealing with wholesale liquor and banking. Kent lost his fortune in the panic of 1893 and moved to Colorado where he worked in real estate until his death. The Kents started and raised their family in Cheyenne, Wyoming; they had three children. Their daughter, Amelia Kent, became the First Lady of Wyoming when she married Amos W. Barber, Governor of Wyoming from 1890-1893.
Michael H. Murphy (b. 1845) came to Wyoming in 1867 with the Union Pacific Railroad. He settled in Laramie, Wyoming, in 1871, where he operated a saloon, called Tammany Hall, at 301 First (Front) Street. He married May Fee (d. 1898) in 1873, and they had seven children: Thomas, Kate, Nellie, James, Edward, John, and George.
Lawrence and John Fee also came to Wyoming in 1867 with the Union Pacific Railroad and settled in Laramie. Lawrence Fee was town marshal and tax collector for the city of Laramie in the 1870s and 1880s and was a city councilman during the 1890s.
B.H. Gerwin was a copper economics consultant. He served as the assistant to the director of the Arizona State Department of Mineral Resources and manager of the Kennecott Copper Corporation’s smelting and refining contracts and scheduling for 34 years.
Brothers Richard M. and Robert B. Sherman composed music and lyrics for more motion-picture musicals than any other songwriting team in film history, including several Walt Disney productions. The Sherman brothers were the sons of Russian-Jewish immigrants. Their father was also a famous songwriter, Al Sherman, who wrote Tin Pan Alley. Robert B. Sherman was born in December of 1925, and his brother Richard M. was born June of 1928. Together the duo received various accolades including two Academy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards. In 1976, they received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and in 2008, the National Medal of the Arts. The brothers' music is featured in films, stage productions, TV shows, and theme park songs, and garnered them numerous award nominations and victories. Robert B. Sherman died in 2012. 
The pair of brothers founded the music publishing company Music World Corporation in 1958, which would go on to enjoy a landmark relationship with Disney's publishing firm beginning in the 1960s. They wrote many well-known songs for Walt Disney, including their most well-known song, It's a Small World (After All) written in 1964. The brothers worked directly for Walt Disney until his death in 1966, after which they left the company. In 1968, their first non-Disney work was produced- Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. The production earned the pair their third Academy Award nomination. In the 2000s the pair wrote six more songs for Chitty, the stage adaptation of their hit film. In the 1970s the brothers returned to Disney and worked on films like The Jungle Book and The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, as well as many non-Disney affiliated films.
Lee (1917- ) wrote over 50 western novels and several plays.
William Richardson (1847-1943) and Mary Jane Bloomer (1841-1910) were married in Carbon, Wyoming, in 1880. William Richardson was born in England and came to Carbon to work in the coal mines in 1875. Mary Jane Bloomer had previously been married to Norman Morley (d. 1862) in 1857 and William G. Stimpson (d. 1876) in 1874. She moved to Wyoming in 1868 and established a boarding house at Percy Station, near Fort Halleck in Carbon County. After Mary Jane and William were married, they established a cattle ranch near Elk Mountain in Carbon County, Wyoming. Their children were: Thomas D. (b. 1881), Edward L. (b. 1883), and Willing G. (1886-1968).
Brisbin was born in Pennsylvania and enlisted in the 7th Pennsylvania Volunteers for the Civil War in 1861 and fought in the first battle of Bull Run. Following extended service in the Civil War, Brisbin was eventually promoted to Major in 1868 and assigned to the 2nd U.S. Cavalry to fight in the Indian wars in northwestern Kansas. After serving at Omaha in 1872-1874, Brisbin campaigned in the Indian wars in Montana with General Sheridan in 1875-1877. The rest of his career was spent in Montana or at Fort Robinson, Nebraska and he died in 1892 at the rank of general. Brisbin was also the author of several books on his military career and President James Garfield.
Larry C. Bradley was a Pineville, Missouri resident who wrote about Missouri history and was an avid collector of materials related to the 1939 Jesse James film.
"Jesse James" (1939) was a western movie directed by Henry King and starring Tyrone Power, Henry Fonda, Nancy Kelly, and Randolph Scott. Written by Nunnally Johnson, the film was loosely based on the life of the notorious outlaw from which the film derives its name. "Jesse James" was the fourth largest grossing movie of 1939, and was primarily filmed in Pineville, Missouri.
Chaplin (1912- ) was a music composer, conductor and arranger, and motion picture producer. He was associate producer for the film "The Sound of Music," producer for the film "Star!", and associate producer and music director for the film "West Side Story."
Daniel W. Knowlton, Jr. was born in 1881, and graduated from Harvard University in 1903. Knowlton practiced law in Colorado Springs, Colorado from 1910-1917, at which time he joined the U.S. Army’s 148th Field Artillery Regiment for World War I. After the war he served as a counsel for the Interstate Commerce Commission, and from 1928-1952 he was the Commission’s chief counsel. He passed away in March, 1969.
Daniel W. Knowlton, Sr. was born September 7, 1846 in West Upton, Massachusetts. He briefly attended Harvard University in 1864-1865, and married Mary Anna Frost in 1873. He passed away on August 27, 1897.
William T. Coleman worked for the U.S. Reclamation Service at Cody, Wyoming and on the Shoshone Dam Project.
Charles Willard Lewis (1860-1904) was president of the University of Wyoming. Appointed in September 1903, he served less than a year before his death from pneumonia in 1904.
Marian T. Place (1910- ) wrote juvenile fiction and nonfiction on Western subjects.
Author Rockwell Hereford was born April 12, 1902 to Adeline Lucina (Rockwell) and Frank H. Hereford (distinguished Tucson, Arizona attorney). He married Marda Leppo and had three children, David, Frances, and Anne.
While employed with Consolidated Western Steel, a division of United States Steel Corporation, Hereford wrote a series of pamphlets on the history of western industry entitled 100 Years West of the Hundredth Meridian. Later, he was transferred to U.S. Steel’s Columbia-Geneva Steel Division as manager of employee publications. His charge was to inaugurate an employee communication program involving a monthly magazine, U.S.S. Westerners. This magazine, started in November 1956, was published for employees and families of Columbia-Geneva Steel and Columbia Iron Mining Company. The “100 Years West” series was planned to continue, but was cut due to budget constraints.
A biographer of Henry M. Robinson, who was a banker and fiscal policy advisor to Herbert Hoover, Hereford authored the book, A Whole Man, Henry Mauris Robinson, and a Half Century, 1890-1940. (The manuscript and research materials for this book are housed at the Hoover Presidential Library in Iowa.)
Rockwell Hereford died November 26, 1988.
Truman H. Kuhn spent most of his professional life as a professor of Geological Engineering at the Colorado School of Mines in Golden, Colorado. He was born in 1908 in Glendora, California. He graduated from Citrus Union High School in 1922 and earned a B.S. degree from the California Institute of Technology in 1930. He graduated with a Ph.D. from the University of Arizona in 1940. From 1930 to 1937 he was an engineer geologist for the Los Angeles Flood Control District, and from 1940 to 1942 he worked for the Magma Copper Company as a geologist. He was also a consulting geologist for the Eagle-Picher Mining and Smelting Company and for the Arizona Molybdenum Corporation.
Mr. Kuhn became an Assistant Professor of Geology at the Colorado School of Mines in 1942, and he was promoted over the next 12 years until he achieved the rank of Faculty Dean and then Vice President for Administrative Affairs. He held many active positions outside of the School of Mines, including Geological Consultant to the School of Mines Research Foundation and Registered Professional Engineer in Colorado. He was a consultant to Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Indonesia, and other foreign governments as an expert on setting up mining and petroleum colleges. He also had an abiding interest in the problems involved in maintaining academic and professional standards in geology and geology education. He belonged to many boards concerned with these issues including the Colorado State Board for the Registration of Engineers, the American Institute of Professional Geologists, and the ECPD Engineering Education and Accreditation Committee.
He wrote numerous articles and produced 16 publications on mining geology, applied geology, engineering education, and manpower. He also received numerous awards including the medallion of merit from the University of Arizona, the Tasker H. Bliss medal as a military engineer, and the George R. Brown medal from the Colorado School of Mines. Truman Kuhn died on November 14, 1988.
Cole worked as an arranger for CBS from 1941 to 1956 before becoming a composer for motion pictures. He also composed orchestral and popular music.
Lee S. Miller worked in Wyoming for the U.S. Bureau of Mines and U.S. Geological Survey in the 1920s. He later went to Michigan, where he worked for the Michigan Geological Survey Division and as a petroleum consultant.
The Animal Trap Company emerged in the 1920s under the leadership of C. M. Woolworth in Lititz, Pennsylvania as a sporting goods company that paid particular attention to the activities of hunting, fishing, boating, skiing, and golf. It also specialized in the area of rodent control with its Victor products. In 1966, the company launched a contest to rename itself. The Animal Trap Company was thereafter known as Woodstream Corporation.
James H. Rowe (d. 1945) was a Montana businessman who engaged in oil exploration and development in the early twentieth century. He was a partner in the Lawlor & Rowe corporation of Butte, Montana.
Root was a writer for motion pictures, television and theater.
The Union Pacific Coal Company was a subsidiary of the Union Pacific Railroad Company. The coal company was formed in 1890, replacing the earlier Union Pacific Coal Department (created in 1874). Most of the coal was extracted from mines in the Rock Springs, Wyoming, area.
Crede Haskins Calhoun (1885-1978) worked as Chief of Division for Civil Affairs and Director of Posts and as a journalist, in the Panama Canal Zone, from 1922-1947. He first came to the Panama Canal in 1907 to work as a postal clerk and after a brief return to the U.S. for college, he worked as a reporter for the Panama "Star & Herald" from 1911-1920, the New York "Herald Tribune" from 1920-1926 and the New York "Times" from 1926-1952. While with the "Times" Calhoun covered Central and South America and Charles Lindbergh's flight across Central America. After 1953 he wrote occasionally for "Newsweek" magazine. 
J. B. Stoutamore was superintendent at the Pathfinder Dam in Wyoming for over twenty years, retiring in 1962. He invented an electric water gauge that was installed at the Guernsey and Alcova Dams, as well as the Pathfinder Dam.
Lenski (1893-1974) was an author and illustrator of children's books. She won the 1946 Newbery Award for "Strawberry Girl."
Clymer (1884-1974) worked as an oil well salesman in Casper, Wyoming, and Denver, Colorado, from 1911-1963.
Harold Gilbert (1897-1987) was born in Iowa and raised in Lander, Wyoming. He attended the University of Wyoming from 1922-1925 and was also appointed State Bee Inspector in 1925. Gilbert was married to Hila Garard in 1927.
In 1942 the Gilberts moved to Sheridan, Wyoming, to operate an apiary. Harold Gilbert was later an instructor of agriculture from 1949 to 1966 at the Northeast Agricultural Junior College in Sheridan, later known as Sheridan College.
Hila Gilbert was an artist and an author of 3 books on Wyoming history, including "Big Bat Pourier; Guide & Interpreter, Fort Laramie, 1870-1880."
Joseph Gras was a collector of Wyoming history.
Mamie Thompson Tyvold was a longtime resident of Laramie, Wyoming who graduated from the University of Wyoming in 1893. Her father was Ole Thompson, a pioneer resident of Laramie and an engineer for the Union Pacific Railroad. Her husband, Lewis Tyvold (1865-1937), was owner of Gem City Grocery in Laramie. He was also vice-president of Albany National Bank in Laramie.
William M. Magruder was a test pilot and aeronautical engineer during the twentieth century. From 1949 to 1956, Magruder served as a test pilot and engineer for the U.S. Air Force Flight Test Division and Flight Test Center, where he test flew and supervised the engineering of a number of aircraft, including the North American F-86 Sabrejet and Boeing B-52 Stratofortress. After leaving the military in 1956, he worked for Douglas Aircraft Company (1956-1963), where he helped design and test piloted the Douglas DC-8 airliner. From 1963 to 1967, Magruder worked for Lockheed Corporation, where he supervised the design and development of the Lockheed L-1011 airliner and served as test engineer and project pilot on the company's Supersonic Transport (SST) program. From 1970 to 1971, he served as Director of the U.S. Department of Transportation's Director of SST Development.
Ellsworth Y. Dougherty, a mining engineer and geologist, worked for a number of mining companies in the United States and Canada from 1911-1941. From 1941-1947 he was a mining engineer with the U.S. Bureau of Mines and from 1948-1962 was a mining engineer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for its San Francisco and Seattle offices.
Throssel (1882-1933) was born in Washington state of Cree Indian and English descent. He worked as an office clerk at the Crow Indian Reservation in south-central Montana from 1902-1910 and was adopted by the Crow tribe in 1905. While at the reservation he met photographer Edward S. Curtis, and was briefly instructed by him. Throssel became a field photographer for the Crow reservation before he established his own photography studio, the Throssel Photocraft Company, in Billings, Montana, in 1910.
John William Kingman (1821-1903) graduated from Harvard University in 1843 and began practicing law in New Hampshire in 1847. In 1862 he was commissioned as a colonel in the 15th Regiment of New Hampshire Volunteers during the Civil War and was mustered out in late 1863. He was appointed associate justice of the Supreme Court of Wyoming Territory in 1869 and served until 1873. Kingman practiced law in Laramie and Cheyenne, Wyoming, and operated a sheep ranch outside of Laramie until around 1883 when he moved to Cedar Falls, Iowa.
In 1949, the people of France sent the “Merci Train” to the U. S., in appreciation of the American “Freedom Train,” which carried food to the French during WWII. This trainload of gifts was sent to Wyoming, where the train itself is exhibited in Cheyenne.
Arthur Beeby-Thompson (b. 1873) was one of the first consulting engineers in the petroleum field. After training as a mechanical engineer, he used his knowledge of well-drilling in the Baku oilfields in Russia. He made numerous innovations in oilfield operations. His career encompassed Europe; North, Central, and South America; the Caribbean; the Middle East; and Africa.
The Rocky Mountain Fuel Company was a land-holding company incorporated in 1910 under the laws of Wyoming. The company owned land which was leased for coal, oil, and gas development in Boulder, Fremont, Garfield, Grand, Gunnison, Huerfano, Las Animas, Park, Routt, and Weld Counties in Colorado. The company also leased its land for agriculture and timbering. Although the company filed for bankruptcy and was ordered to be liquidated in 1946, it was still in liquidation in 1973, when Gerald R. Armstrong took over the presidency.
The Jesters Club, a University of Wyoming Club founded in 1926, produced plays in order to promote amateur dramatics. The club disbanded in 1944.
Myrtle Mockel (b. 1901) wrote Western history and fiction.
Redington Fiske (1898-1970) served as editor of "Export Trade and Shipper" from 1949-1963 and was also a member of the U.S. Trade and Industrial Development Mission to Ireland in 1966.
William Wayne Morrison (1898-1977) was passenger agent of the Union Pacific Railroad and also a historian of emigrant trails and pioneer graves.
Frederick G. Farish (1866-1946) was a mining engineer who traveled extensively in the western United States and in Mexico in order to inspect mines. He documented these travels with photographs, which were mounted in albums accompanied by identification. Farish began his career as a mine manager in San Miguel County, Colorado, in the 1890s. He was a construction and examining engineer between 1902 and 1911 and superintendent of the Humboldt Mine in Colorado from 1912 to 1913. Between 1915 and 1925 he managed mines in Chihuahua, Arizona, and Colorado.
The Episcopal Church has been in the state of Wyoming since 1856, being included in a missionary district with Colorado, Idaho, Nebraska and the Dakotas since 1859. The Missionary District of Idaho and Wyoming was created by the General Convention of October 1886. The Episcopal Church Diocese of Wyoming was established in 1896 by the Episcopal Missionary Board. By 2010, there were over 7,000 Episcopalians in Wyoming.
Bishops of the Diocese of Wyoming were: Ethelbert Talbot (1887-1896); Nathaniel S. Thomas (1909-1927); Elmer N. Schmuck (1929-1936); Winfred H. Ziegler (1936-1949); James W. Hunter (1949-1969, deceased 1987); David R. Thornberry (1969-1977, deceased 1995); Bob G. Jones (1977-1996); Bruce Caldwell (1997-2010), and John Smylie (2010-). 
Peter Weldon Van Winkle was captain of Company D, 11th Ohio Volunteer Cavalry between 1862 and 1866. He was born March 9, 1825, near Hillsboro, Ohio, and helped to organize the 11th Ohio Volunteer Cavalry in 1861. Most of the men in Company D were residents of Highland County, Ohio. The company was stationed at Fort Laramie and at Platte Bridge Station. After the company had been at Fort Laramie for a time, Captain Van Winkle’s wife, Margaret Kinkead Van Winkle, and two daughters, Mary Eliza (12) and a younger girl (6) joined him. Margaret and the girls were sent home again in 1864 during the Sioux war. Van Winkle suffered a stroke while on duty and was sent home to Hillsboro, Ohio, where he died on August 2, 1871.
Betters was executive director of the United States Conference of Mayors from 1932-1956 and worked with several presidents of the organization including Fiorello H. La Guardia of New York City and George W. Welsh of Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Dempster appeared in the National Company's theatrical production of "My Fair Lady" from 1957-1963.
Levi S. Howes (1872-1967) operated the Circle Bar Ranch, located on the Otter River in Powder River County, Montana. He also held business interests in Sheridan, Wyoming.
Walter Fitch Sr. (1854-1937) was born in London and came to the U.S. in 1874. He worked in the copper mining industry in Michigan starting in 1881 and then organized the Chief Consolidated Mining Company (CCMC) in 1909 with investors from Michigan. The CCMC conducted general mining operations near Eureka in Juab County, Utah.
Marion King Hubbert (1903-1989) was born in central Texas and studied geology and physics at the University of Chicago. He received a Ph.D. from that institution in 1937. He taught geology and geophysics at Columbia University for ten years beginning in 1931. He served as senior analyst of world mineral resources on the Board of Economic Warfare during World War II. From 1943 to 1964 he worked for Shell Oil in Houston. After leaving Shell he became research geophysicist with the U.S. Geological Survey. He continued to teach, as a visiting professor, at various times at Stanford University and at the University of California, Berkeley. He was also a prolific author of scientific articles.
The Medicine Bow National Forest (MBNF) of southeastern Wyoming was created in 1902.
Louis F. Lombardi worked as an engineer for the Virginia Department of Water Resources and was later an economics professor at Virginia Commonwealth University.
B.G. Stevenson and his brothers, Lon C., Grover, J.H., and John T., created the Sunburst Oil & Gas Company to develop a discovery well in the Kevin-Sunburst oil field in Montana in the 1920s. B.G. Stevenson was sales manager of the company, which was successful in producing oil. Stevenson remained in the oil industry, later working for Socony Mobil Oil Company, while also pursuing a career as an artist and potter.
Hugh Baker Cox (1905-1973) was born in Logan, Iowa and grew up in Lincoln, Nebraska. He earned a bachelor of arts degree at the University of Nebraska in 1926 and became a Rhodes Scholar the same year. He then received a bachelor's degree in English from Christ Church at Oxford in 1929 followed by a law degree in 1930 under the Vinerian scholarship. Cox was admitted to the New York State Bar in 1933 and in 1935 he joined the antitrust division of the U.S. Department of Justice. He was counsel for the Department before the Temporary National Economic Committee from 1938-1939. In 1942, he was assigned to the Board of Economic Warfare, working in London on economic intelligence activities. He was named assistant attorney general in 1943 in charge of the War Division and from 1943-1945 was assistant solicitor general. In 1944, he was directly involved in formulation of federal policy regarding a dispute between Montgomery Ward and the National War Labor Board which resulted in the seizure of the company under presidential executive order. Cox returned to private legal practice in Washington, D.C. in 1945.
Ridley was born in Tasmania and emigrated to the U.S. with his parents, Arthur Ernest Brooke Ridley and Mary Amelia Leechman in 1887. Arthur Ernest and Mary Amelia were born in London and had emigrated to Tasmania. Arthur Grahame married Margery Paulson Richardson in 1923. Arthur Ernest (d. 1919) was an electrical engineer and president of the Electric Motor Chair Company of San Francisco.
Mary Leechman's father, John Leechman (d. 1916), was a merchant in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) along with his brothers, William and Robert in the 1870s. John moved to San Francisco during the 1880s and was an agent for selling tea from India and Ceylon. He was later secretary of the Soulsby Gold Mining Company and the Hamilfield Mining Company.
From 1903-1906 Arthur Grahame designed and built custom manufactured automobiles. He worked as an engineering consultant from 1911-1932, designing and building over 20 fruit and vegetable dehydration plants. Ridley was also owner of the Speed Carburetor Company from 1912-1916. Ridley designed warehouses and processing plants for the California Walnut Growers Association (later the Diamond Walnut Growers, Inc.) from 1934-1936 and the California and Hawaiian Sugar Corporation from 1936-1940. From 1940-1946 he was a systems analyst for Lockheed Corporation and was in Northern Ireland from 1942-1944.
William B. Peters was a soil scientist for the United States Bureau of Reclamation. He was born in Montana in 1922 and graduated from Colorado State College with a degree in agronomy. He started with the Bureau of Reclamation in 1947 when he was stationed at the Riverton Reclamation Project in Wyoming as a land classifier. He retired in 1977 as chief soil scientist and head of the Land Utilization Section in Denver, Colorado. During his years at the Bureau of Reclamation he became an expert on irrigation, reclamation of salt-affected lands, and tropical agriculture. He worked on many overseas projects, and was a consultant for numerous organizations including World Bank and the International Development Association.
The origins of the National Cattlemen’s Association go back to January 1898, when a meeting of cattle, sheep, goat, swine, and horse growers was held in Denver, Colorado to consider forming a national organization to represent and defend the interests of livestock producers. At this meeting, the National Live Stock Growers Association was formed and John W. Springer became its first president. The organization changed its name to the National Live Stock Association in 1900.
In 1905, a group of cattle and sheep growers protested the presence of meat packers, railroad representatives and others allied but not directly involved with the livestock industry in the National Live Stock Association, and broke away to form the American Stock Growers Association. However, the two organizations reunited to form the American National Live Stock Association in 1906.
Between 1906 and 1953, the market for horses declined and sheep and swine growers gradually drifted away to form their own national organizations, leaving behind a membership consisting primarily of cattlemen and cattlemen’s associations. In recognition of this, the American National Live Stock Association changed its name to the American National Cattlemen’s Association (ANCA) in 1953.
In 1977, ANCA merged with the National Livestock Feeders Association, and changed its name to the National Cattlemen’s Association (NCA). By this time, the NCA represented a membership from all facets of the cattle industry. In 1996, NCA merged with the National Beef Council to form the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association (NCBA).
Cassady served with the French Flying Service as a pilot with the 28th Aero Pursuit Squadron during World War I. He returned to France in 1942 as a naval attaché to the U.S. Embassy in Vichy, France, during World War II. However, Cassady reported to the Office of Strategic Services as an undercover agent whose job was to help the French Underground find escape routes for downed Allied pilots, which took him into occupied France on four occasions.
After the Nazis occupied Vichy in November 1942, Cassady was taken prisoner and held in a hotel on account of his diplomatic status. He was returned to the U.S. in February 1944 as part of a prisoner exchange and resumed his undercover work that same month in Algiers and later in Paris when France was liberated. Cassady worked as an investor before and after World War II.
Alden Nash (1903-1996) was a playwright and screenwriter. Filmography includes the comedy We’re Rich Again (1934) that was adapted from Nash’s play And Let Who Will be Clever; uncredited dialogue writer for Gridiron Flash (1934), uncredited contributing writer for Magnificent Obsession (1935), story writer for Passport to Suez (1943), playwright for The Sainted Sisters (1948), adaptation of Man-Eater of Kumaon (1948) and screenwriter for Unwed Mother (1958).
Parke Levy (1905- ), a radio and television writer, produced the television program "Many Happy Returns," which was broadcast during the 1960s.
Ingram T. Hermanson (1912- ), worked as a camp engineer with the Civilian Conservation Corps in South Dakota from 1935-1938. From 1938-1942 and 1945-1971 he served with the U.S. Soil Conservation Service as an engineer concerned with flood control. Hermanson served with the U.S. Army Air Forces in the South Pacific during World War II from 1942-1945.
Charles Stacy French (1907-1995) was an avid skier and mountain climber. He climbed the Matterhorn in 1920. He helped build the Appalachian Mountain Club hut at Franconia Notch, New Hampshire and spent many weekends and vacations camping.
Gordon (1930- ) was an author on science and aeronautics.
George Washington Thornton Beck was a Wyoming sheep rancher, oil land developer, businessman, and politician. Born 28 July 1856 near Lexington, Kentucky, Beck was the son of James Burnie Beck and a collateral descendant of George Washington. Beck studied civil engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York. In 1877 he headed west, eventually settling in northern Wyoming near present-day Sheridan. He owned a large sheep operation and was active as a mining engineer. In 1895 Beck laid out the city of Cody with his friend Colonel William F. (Buffalo Bill) Cody. Together they also formed the Shoshone Land and Irrigation Company. Later Beck built and operated the Shoshone Electric Light and Power Company and helped develop surrounding oil fields. Beck was the first member of the Wyoming territorial council from Johnson County and the president of the last territorial council. In 1902 he made an unsuccessful run for the governorship, but earned the nickname "Governor" nonetheless. He served as mayor of Cody in 1903 and was a member of the Wyoming State Senate from 1913-1917. He also served as a six time delegate to the Democratic National Convention. In 1897 Beck married Daisy M. Sorenson. Together they had three children: George T. Beck, Jr., Jane Beck Johnson, and Betty Beck Roberson. George Beck died 1 December 1943 in Cody. 
Raymond Benjamin West (1875- ) was a lawyer in Basin, Wyoming.
Walker Peyton Moncure (1877-1964) was a rancher, petroleum investor, and owner of a general store in Busby, on the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation in southeastern Montana. Moncure became a friend of Two Moon, a Cheyenne who participated in the Battle of Little Bighorn. Two Moon died in 1917 and Moncure had him reburied at Busby, erecting a monument for him. Moncure sold his store to join the Merchant Marine during World War I. He then homesteaded in Wyoming and speculated in oil on the Crow Reservation in Montana. In 1929 Moncure bought back the Busby store, which he continued to operate into the 1940s. Moncure organized festivals, some of which he called "Sun Dances," for his Cheyenne customers. In 1931, Moncure built what became known as the “Moncure Tipi,” a structure that became a site of tribal give-away ceremonies and dances. In addition, it housed Civilian Conservation Corps work crews during the 1930s construction of the Busby School. The structure was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2002.
Irving C. Root (1891-1973) was an architect during the mid-20th century. He began his career as a city planner in Cambridge, Massachusetts (1916-1920) and Flint, Michigan (1920-1922). From 1922-1927 he pursued his own private practice as a planning consultant before becoming the Chief Engineer and Planning Director of the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission. In 1940 Root was appointed Superintendent of the National Capital Parks in Washington D.C. He held this post until 1953 when he returned to private practice as a planning consultant.
Matthew Josephson (1899-1978) and Hannah Geffen Josephson (1900-1976) were married in 1920 shortly after they graduated from Columbia University. After graduation Hannah took a job as a reporter for the New York "American" and Matthew was editor of "Broom" magazine from 1922-1924 and later an account representative with several stock brokerage firms. Both of the Josephsons lived in Paris from 1926-1928, working as writers.
They returned to the U.S. in 1928 where Matthew was a writer for "Transition" magazine from 1928-1930 and then as editor at "The New Republic" from 1931-1932. After 1932 he was an author and biographer. Hannah worked as editor of publications for the American Academy of Arts and Letters from 1949-1965. She also worked as an author and biographer. Together they wrote the biography "Al Smith: Hero of the Cities" in 1969.
Lewis H. Bowen (1910-1977) worked as a financial reporter for the "New York Herald Tribune" from 1935-1936, the "U.S. News" (later "U.S. News and World Report") from 1936-1937 and the "New York Journal of Commerce" from 1937-1938. He was national publicity director for the American Red Cross from 1940-1945 and later an executive with several fund-raising firms.
Daniel Isaac Axelrod, a paleobotany educator, received his M.S. degree in 1936 and his Ph. D. in 1938 from the University of California. He began his professional career as a technician at the California Forest and Range Experiment Station in 1934. Following his positions at the United States National Museum and the Carnegie Institution of Washington, he became a professor of geology at the University of California, Los Angeles from 1946-1968. He became professor of botany at the University of California, Davis in 1968.
Format Films was founded in 1959 by Herbert Klynn, who had previous experience as a graphic designer, animation director, and producer. The firm, which produced graphically oriented films for advertising, industry, television and theater, was incorporated in 1964 as Format Productions, Inc. Among its television productions were "Alvin and the Chipmunks" and an animated revival of "The Lone Ranger" which ran from 1966-1969.
Jack Nason was a resident of Crook County, Wyoming. 
Philip Joseph Banner was born in Warwickshire, England and later lived as a resident of Laramie, Wyoming with his family.
Irwin B. Hosig (1884- ) worked as an engineer for the U.S. Reclamation Service and was Assistant Supervisor on the Shoshone Irrigation Project in Wyoming. He later worked as a consultant to the Twin Lake Reservoir and Canal Company of Colorado.
Daniel A. Nelson was a junior high school teacher and director of the Laramie Plains Museum in Laramie, Wyoming. He incorporated the celebration of the Bicentennial into teaching lessons, was involved with local planning of celebrations, and collected Bicentennial Memorabilia.
B.W. Allred was an ecologist concerned with range and livestock management in the American West. He worked with botanists Frederic E. and Edith S. Clements at the Alpine Laboratory from 1934-1945. After Frederic Clements' death, Allred edited "Dynamics of Vegetation", a compilation of Clements' work. Allred was also interested in the history of the range cattle industry in the West.
Mark M. Regan (b. 1906) was an economist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Bureau of Agricultural Economics.
Josiah Gay Seabourne (1896-1978) was a member of the Civil War Round Table of the District of Columbia and served as its president in 1958. For many years he was a field guide and narrator for field trips to Civil War battlefields in the Washington, D.C. area.
Thomas had several business interests in Cheyenne, Wyoming, during the 1870s and 1880s, dealing mainly with the cattle and sheep industries. Hay & Thomas, a company formed by his partnership with Henry Gurley Hay (1847-1919), included the operation of a sheep ranch near Cheyenne, Valley Ranche. During the 1870s both Thomas and Hay served as surveyors for Wyoming Territory with the U.S. Surveyor Generals Office. Hay also operated a wholesale grocery in Cheyenne, Whipple & Hay. In 1884 Hay sold his interest in Hay & Thomas to Thomas.
Thomas also held interests in Thomas & Page, a partnership with E.A. Page; the Suffolk Cattle Company involving James B. and W.A. Crawford; Thomas & Arnett and Warner & Arnett, involving A.H. Arnett, a cattle grower in Dickinson, North Dakota, and William D. Warner of Texas; and Adams, Choate & Company in Station, Nebraska.
Tazewell (1900-1972) was an author of children's books and television programs. He wrote the children's Christmas books "The Littlest Angel" in 1939 and "The Littlest Snowman" in 1956 and the 1963 television Christmas special "The Story of Christmas," which starred Tennessee Ernie Ford.
Donald Bosley Woodward (1905-1974), an economist, served as an advisor to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in 1939, the U.S. Treasury Department from 1942-1944 and with the President's Citizen Mutual Security Program in 1955.
J.B. Okie (1864-1930) was a Wyoming sheep rancher and businessman. He came to Rawlins, Wyoming, in 1882 and worked briefly as a cowboy before buying his first herd of sheep, which he grazed along the Sweetwater River before moving them to the Badwater Creek in Fremont County, Wyoming, in 1883. In 1884 he built his first home on the Badwater at Lost Cabin, Wyoming. He formed the Bighorn Sheep Company at Casper in 1893 and moved its headquarters to Lost Cabin in 1902. Also in 1893, he bought the Smith Mercantile Company in Casper, Wyoming, and reopened it as the Casper Mercantile Company with his brother Fred as manager; this store was closed in 1898 when Fred Okie left Wyoming. The first Bighorn Sheep Company mercantile store opened in Lost Cabin in 1895, with later expansion into the central Wyoming communities of Arminto, Lysite, Kaycee, Moneta, and Shoshoni. In 1919, Okie bought the Piggly Wiggly stores franchise for Mexico, where he owned six stores.
Donald W. Norwood was a cinematographer. He and cinematographer Karl Freund created the Norwood Director, which is a series of hand-held light meters. The design was patented in 1940. Sekonic of Japan acquired the rights to manufacture the Norwood Direction in 1957.
Frederick V. Coville (1867-1937), a botanist for the United States Department of Agriculture, was considered an authority on North American rushes, wild currents, and blueberries. His "Botany of the Death Valley Expedition" was a classic study. He participated in the 1899 Harriman expedition to Alaska. Coville was the first curator of the National Herbarium and was chairman of the research committee of the National Geographic Society from 1920 to 1937.
Herbert Oliver Brayer (1913-) was an American historian during the twentieth century. An expert on the economic history of the American West, Brayer was born in Montreal, Canada and educated at the University of Southern California and the University of New Mexico. He served as Director of the Western Range Cattle Industry Study (1944-1949) and authored a number of books concerning the economic history of the American West, including "William Blackmore, A Case Study in the Economic Development of the West" (1949).
Earnest Hill (born 1902) was a machinist, boxer, and high school shop teacher. Hill became a collector of Jack London first editions and manuscripts in 1931. Through his collecting activities he became a correspondent of Charmian London, Jack London’s widow.
Andrew Denny Rodgers, III (1900-1981) was born in Columbus, Ohio and graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University in 1922, followed by law school at Ohio State University in 1925. He practiced law from 1926-1933 and later became a historian of botany and botanists.
Robert H. Herr was an aviator, airport manager and funeral home director.
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey was an oil company and holding company during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Standard Oil Company of New Jersey was originally formed in 1882 as a refining and marketing arm of the Standard Oil Trust. When the Standard Oil Trust was broken up under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act in 1892, the trust was reorganized as Standard Oil Interests. Taking advantage of New Jersey laws that allowed corporations to own stock in other corporations, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey became a holding company that effectively replaced the Standard Oil Trust. In this capacity, it provided administrative coordination to Standard Oil Interests and held stock in forty-one other oil companies. In 1911, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey was split off from its subsidiaries by order of the U.S. Supreme Court under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. Between 1911 and 1973, the company operated as an international oil company in its own right, producing and marketing petroleum products under a number of brands, including Esso, Enco, and Humble. It also controlled a number of other oil companies, including Humble Oil and Refining Company, Carter Oil Company, Imperial Oil Limited, and Standard of Louisiana. In 1973, Standard Oil of New Jersey changed its corporate name to Exxon to provide uniform branding of its products.
David E. Donley (1902-1968), a hydraulic engineer, worked with the Tennessee Valley Authority from 1934-1940 as an engineer. After serving as a professor of civil engineering at Cornell University from 1946-1949, he worked for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation from 1950-1959. After retiring from the Bureau of Reclamation, he served as a technical adviser to the United Nations on irrigation and flood control in South America, Iceland and Asia.
The Ivinson Memorial Hospital of Laramie, Wyoming, was built and endowed by Edward Ivinson (1830-1928) in honor of his wife Jane Wood Ivinson following her death in 1915. The original Ivinson Memorial Hospital opened in 1916. Construction of a new hospital building was completed in 1973.
Edward David Crippa (1899-1960) of Rock Springs, Wyoming, was appointed to the United States Senate in June, 1954, to fill the vacancy created by the death of Lester Calloway Hunt. He served only six months in the Senate. Crippa was a businessman in Rock Springs, served as Wyoming State Highway Commissioner from 1941-1947, was a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1944, and was on the Republican National Committee from 1948-1960.
Watson Wyman and his brother Gay Wyman bought a ranch near Shell, Wyoming, in 1908. Gay Wyman married Marguerite in 1910. Originally the ranch was operated to raise cattle but about 1913 it became a dude ranch, Trapper’s Lodge. Among the regular guests were Owen Wister and Julian Huxley. The Wyman family sold the ranch in 1930.
John Franklin Carter was a New Deal columnist syndicated under the pen name of Jay Franklin. He was the author of more than 30 books of fiction and nonfiction. Carter attended Yale where he formed a network of important contacts. After a brief career in government service, he became the Rome correspondent for the London Daily Chronicle in 1922. A year later he moved to the New York Times. In 1928 he became an economic specialist for the Division of Western Europe for the U.S. State Department. He was Washington correspondent for Liberty magazine, but returned to government service from 1934 to 1936 as Under Secretary for Agriculture. Carter was best known for his syndicated column "We the People," which ran 1936-1948.
Carter supported Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal policies and acted as an advisor on “political intelligence” to the president during World War II. He was also a radio commentator for NBC from 1938 to 1939. Carter later worked for Harry Truman as a speechwriter but resigned from the White House staff shortly after Truman's election. He joined the Republican Party and became an active supporter of President Richard Nixon. Carter became an economic research consultant for the New York State Department of Commerce. In 1950, he was appointed director of public relations for the New York State Publicity Department. He died in 1967.
Harrington (1890-1971), an accountant, spent most of his career with Ernst & Ernst before serving as commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service from 1955-1958.
Benjamin Odell Howard was an aviator and aeronautical engineer.
Ray Palmer Teele (1868-1927) graduated from the University of Nebraska in 1899 and was an irrigation economist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture from 1899-1927. He was in charge of the irrigation and drainage census for the U.S. Census Bureau in 1910 and 1920 and was investigating economic conditions on water reclamation projects on Indian reservations at the time of his death in 1927.
Arthur C. Tate ascended Gannet Peak in Wyoming in 1922. He engaged in several other climbing expeditions in the Wind River Range (Wyoming) and Mission Range (Montana) during the 1920s. On later expeditions he was accompanied by his son, Malcolm C. Tate.
Harold W.C. Prommel (1887-1970) was a miner in South America and the western U.S. from 1902-1917 before working as a consulting geologist and mining engineer from 1917-1965 in the western U.S., Mexico, South America and the U.S.S.R. From 1932-1934 he was president of Prommel Mining Company, which conducted gold placer mining near Rollinsville, Colorado.
Madden (1861-1928) operated several sheep ranches in Fremont County, Wyoming. He was also involved in establishing a fund to hire T.W. Joyce, a special agent of the Chicago and North Western Railway Company, to investigate the July 20, 1906 murder of Warner Moody of Shoshoni, Wyoming.
Oscar [Oskar] Stonorov (1905-1970), an architect and sculptor, emigrated to the United States from Germany in 1929 and settled in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the early 1930s. He was interested throughout his career in public housing and affordable housing for the working classes. His architectural associates included Alfred Kastner, Louis I. Kahn, George Howe, and Frank Haws. In addition to numerous projects in Philadelphia and the northeastern U.S., Stonorov was the designer of the Frank Lloyd Wright exhibit which toured the U.S. and major European cities in 1951-1952. He was the principal designer of the United Auto Workers headquarters building in Detroit, Michigan and the UAW's Black Lake Conference Center in Onaway, Michigan. Stonorov and his long-time friend, UAW President Walter Reuther died in a plane crash in 1970 while inspecting the Black Lake construction site.
George Haven Putnam was the son of publisher George Palmer Putnam, founder of G.P. Putnam & Co., which had offices in New York and London. He served during the Civil War with the 176th New York Volunteers from 1862-1865, rising to the rank of major. As a prisoner of war, he spent the winter of 1864-1865 in Libby and Danville prisons. Putnam joined his father's publishing house after the Civil War and became head of G.P. Putnam's Sons in 1872, a position he held until his death in 1930. He was an organizer of the American Copyright League in 1887 and was instrumental in the development of American copyright law.
Putnam was actively involved in the English-Speaking Union, the American Rights League, the Free Trade League, and support of the League of Nations. From 1926 until his death he devoted his efforts to creating an endowed chair in American history at the University of London. Putnam wrote several books and lectured widely on subjects including his Civil War experiences, Abraham Lincoln, copyright, censorship, publishing, free trade, American-British relations and Washington Irving.
L. Wolfe Gilbert (1886-1970) was an American lyricist and composer during the twentieth century. Known as the "Dean of Tin Pan Alley", Gilbert was born in Odessa, Ukraine and immigrated to the United States with his family as an infant. He later moved to New York City and started working in vaudeville as a teenager. Gilbert wrote his first hit song, "Waitin' for the Robert E. Lee" in 1912 and went on to write more than 250 songs, including "Down Yonder" (1921), "Lucky Lindy" (1927), and "Peanut Vendor' (1931). His songs were performed and recorded by numerous performing artists, including Fred Waring, Count Basie, and Xavier Cugat. Gilbert also wrote lyrics and composed for radio, motion pictures, and television, and his work included writing music for the "Eddie Cantor Show", writing the lyrics for the song "Ramona" (which became the first ever motion picture theme song for the movie "Ramona" in 1936), and writing the lyrics for "Hopalong Cassidy March" (which became the theme song for Hopalong Cassidy's movies and television show during the 1940s and 1950s). In addition to his musical activities, Gilbert was an active member of the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers, serving as its director from 1941 to 1944. He was also the author of his autobiography Without Rhyme or Reason (1956).
John A. Minion was a historian and writer on various Western subjects. He authored The Death of a Survivor (1964) about Christian Madsen, a private in the Battle of the Little Bighorn. He also authored the book The Riddle of Annie Elinor Jones, Pal of Custer (1964) about Anna "Annie" Elinor Jones, a vivandière who served during the Civil War and later traveled with George Armstrong Custer's regiment. Additionally, he wrote an article titled, “Negro Soldiers in the Confederate Army” (1969) that appeared in the June-July 1970 issue of The Crisis, the official magazine of the National Association for Advancement of Colored People.
Gerald Fried (b. 1928) was a music composer, musician, author and arranger for television and motion pictures. Educated at Juilliard, he performed in the Dallas Symphony, the New York Little Orchestra and the Pittsburgh Symphony before his career as a freelance composer for television and movies. He wrote musical scores for "Dynasty," "Roots," "Sixth Sense," "Survivor," "Man Eater," "Star Trek," "Mannix," "Mission Impossible" "Gilligan's Island," "Ben Casey" and "The Man from U.N.C.L.E." His musical scores for films include "The Killing," "Paths of Glory," "Cold Wind in August," "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari," "Dino," "Timbuktu," "Machine Gun Kelly," and many others.
The Ethyl Corporation, chartered in Delaware in 1924, originated from the research efforts of scientists and chemical engineers Charles F. Kettering and Thomas Midgeley, Jr. In 1921, Midgley and Kettering discovered tetraethyl lead as an anti-knock agent in automobile engines. Kettering named this tetraethyl lead "Ethyl" gasoline and made it available to the public in 1923. Midgley and Kettering founded the General Motors Chemical Company to provide distribution of the gasoline. Standard Oil Company of New Jersey joined General Motors Chemical in its manufacturing to create Ethyl Corporation in 1924.
Kettering served as president of the corporation, serving until 1925. Midgley served as vice-president and general manager until his death in 1944. James Boudreau served as vice-president and director of public relations until 1966. Earl Botholomew, an engineer, developed several important patents, including a special mixture of bromine and chlorine and an engine that could use tetraethyl lead and meet clear air regulations. In 1962, Albemarle Paper Manufacturing Company bought out Ethyl Corporation.
Herb Meadow was a radio, motion picture, and television writer. He created the television series “Have Gun, Will Travel” and “Arrest and Trial”. His screen credits included both motion picture and television scripts for “The Lone Ranger” and the screenplay for “Redhead from Wyoming”.
Harriman Daniel Richardson and his wife, Elizabeth Tamer Page Richardson, homesteaded on Horse Creek in Albany County, Wyoming, in 1874. The couple had three daughters: Lovisa (b. 1873), Beulah (b. 1875), and Lucia Submit (called “Mittie”) (b. 1877). The girls grew up herding sheep and doing ranch work alongside a series of hired men. Lovisa was blinded by an accident when she was about thirteen years old. Beulah was a mail carrier for the post office. H.D. Richardson died in 1910 and Elizabeth Richardson died in 1912. Although the estate was divided between the three sisters, it was Mittie who stayed on the home ranch.
Beulah Richardson married Elmer LaPash in 1896. Elmer LaPash was clerk of Albany County School District #11 near the town of Buford. Caira Mae Simpson (1841-1930) was a sister of Elizabeth Richardson. Caira Simpson and her husband, Jabez Simpson, homesteaded south of Laramie, Wyoming, at Red Buttes.
The Indian Petroleum Corporation was founded in Carson City, Nevada, in 1926.
Gayle Stewart Burns was a woman aviator. She was a Los Angeles teacher when she decided to take flying lessons. She received her pilot's license in 1933.
Frank M. Johnston was a petroleum geologist active in the first half of the 20th century and resident of Rawlins, Wyoming. He was an early developer of the Lost Soldier Oil Field which brought a second oil boom to Casper, Wyoming. He owned Frank M. Johnston Motor Company in Rawlins.
Phebus, a petroleum geologist, was involved in the development of the oil industry in the Rocky Mountain region in the 1920s-1940s.
Dullenty served as editor of the outlaw history magazines "Old West" and "True West", and as a board member of the National Association for Outlaw and Lawman History.
Dillard was an early cattleman from Texas who took an active part in the development of the 1934 Taylor Grazing Act, administered by the Grazing Service and later by the Bureau of Land Management. Dillard worked on cattledrives from Texas to ranges in Colorado and Wyoming during the 1880s. He later settled in Colorado and operated his own ranch.
F. Bruce Lamb (1913-1992) was a tropical forestry expert and writer. A graduate of the University of Michigan, School of Forestry, he wrote his doctoral dissertation on mahogany. During WWII Lamb traveled to Brazil as part of the Rubber Development Corporation in an effort by the United States to develop a rubber production program. After the war, his work as a consultant and with multiple forestry agencies, and eventually his employment with U.S. Plywood Corporation lead him to work throughout South America, Southeast Asia and parts of Africa. While working in the Amazon, Lamb met Manuel Cordova-Rios, who studied Amazonian medicinal plants under a Huni Kui (Cashinawa) shaman. Lamb wrote several books on the life and work of Cordova-Rios. In addition to his books on Cordova-Rios, Lamb, a native Coloradoan, collected family stories about Harvey Logan, alias Kid Curry, a member of the Wild Bunch, who visited the family ranch. Lamb published a book on the life of Kid Curry as well as an annotated bibliography on the Wild Bunch.
Lesan was a writer and producer of radio and television soap operas.
Johanna Gostas, of Sheridan, Wyoming, was the Wyoming coordinator for the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia. Her husband, U.S. Army Major Theodore W. Gostas, was taken prisoner by the North Vietnamese during the Tet Offensive in February, 1968, and was released in March, 1973, following the signing of the Paris peace agreement in January, 1973. Johanna Gostas worked with national and state POW/MIA groups from 1968 to 1973, and was a National League of Families representative to a 1971 conference on prisoner of war treatment held in Geneva, Switzerland.
Coffin (1912-1974) was a writer and editor of "Life" and "Look" magazines and also the author of the child psychology book "1,2,3,4,5,6: How to Understand and Enjoy the Years That Count" (1972).
Lincoln O'Brien (1907- ) spent his career in newspaper writing, editing and publishing. He was involved with several New England newspapers before moving to New Mexico in 1949, where he was president of New Mexico Newspapers, Inc. At various times, he published daily newspapers in Las Vegas, Tucumcari, Artesia, Gallup, and Farmington, New Mexico.
William L. “Red” Pedri (d. 1979) was an airmail pioneer. He retired from the Federal Aviation Administration in 1969.
Thompson, an author of western fiction, has written over 250 short stories and 12 novels, including "Brand of a Man" (1957) and "Outlaw Valley" (1987). He also worked as editor for the Amarillo, Texas "Globe-Times" during the early 1960s.
Frank W. Mondell was born 6 November 1860 in St. Louis Missouri. He settled in Wyoming in 1887 and was a Wyoming politician, coal prospector, developer of the Cambria mines and oil property in what is now the Newcastle, Wyoming area. He took an active role in establishing the town of Newcastle and served as Newcastle's first mayor. Mondell was elected State Senator to the first and second legislatures, 1890-1893, and served as president of the Wyoming State Senate in 1893. In 1894 Mondell was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives and then defeated for re-election in 1896. After serving as assistant commissioner of the General Land Office, he was again elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in1898, a position he held until 1923. He served as Republican House Majority Leader for the 66th and 67th Congresses. After an unsuccessful candidacy for the U.S. Senate, he retired from Congress in 1923. He was appointed director of the War Finance Corporation from 1923-1925, and thereafter practiced law in Washington D.C. He died in Washington D.C. on 6 August 1939.
Albert B. Gerber was an American author of several books and publications. He is best known for writing “The Bashful Billionaire,” a biographical examination of Howard Hughes’ life.
Collection contains lantern slides and glass plate negatives created and collected by Dr. Irving S. Cutter relating to Western U.S. and Native American History. Topics include Dr. Edwin James (a member of the Stephen H. Long 1819-1820 expedition to the Rocky Mountains) and George Armstrong Custer.
Collection includes correspondence (1946-1977); manuscripts of articles; periodical issues containing his articles (1942-1981); newspaper clippings; awards; notebooks; financial documents; reminiscences of ghostwriting for con man Joseph "Yellow Kid" Weil; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes business and personal correspondence from 1908-1969, much of which concerns Fred Lambert's writings and his game warden activities. There are also drawings, essays, and poems by Lambert about the West, focusing mainly on the Southwest and New Mexico. Also included are family and personal information and photographs and other materials supporting Lambert's art and historical research.
Contains essays, artwork, and other materials about persons.
Contains essays, artwork, and other materials about subjects.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains materials relating to Woodcock's book on Benoist and aviation, including correspondence (1912-1977); subject and research files on aviation, the St. Petersburg-Tampa Airboat Line and Benoist (1915-1965); 3 scrapbooks on aviation, Benoist and the Benoist Airplane Company; miscellaneous maps (1918-1971); newspaper clippings (1909-1977); and photographs of Benoist and the Benoist Airplane Company.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains a resume and professional correspondence with oil companies. It also contains a railroad survey and articles by Bench about Rangely field. Geological maps, articles, and reports about coal exploration make up the rest of the collection.
Collection consists of reports by Rice on dams and water reclamation projects in Europe, Brazil, and India (1959-1965).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection is chiefly materials on Wyoming including copies of Mattes' National Park Service files of correspondence, memorandums, maps, reports, photographs, negatives, legal documents, and printed materials related to Fort Laramie, Yellowstone National Park, Grand Teton National Park, Jackson Hole National Monument, Fort Phil Kearny, Fort Caspar, Fort Bridger and the Oregon Trail. Collection also includes two boxes of note cards containing bibliographic citations and research notes on the history of Jackson Hole and the fur trade.
The collection contains biographical information about Harmon and his family; photographs of Harmon, his family, and colleagues; newspaper clippings about the 1919 around-the-rim flight; and speeches from the dedication of Harmon Air Force Base.
Collection includes mainly scripts for radio programs (1943-1954) written by the Hursleys along with correspondence and other related materials. There are also scripts for two television soap operas, "Search for Tomorrow" (1957-1964) and "The Guiding Light" (1963-1969). One of the radio programs, "Service to the Front" dramatized World War II incidents and experiences of soldiers which were furnished by the U.S. War Department. One episode dramatized the dropping of the first atomic bomb and was broadcast the day following the bombing. There are also letters from servicemen commenting on the show. The radio program "American Women" dramatized homefront activities of women during World War II.
Week #1
Week #2
Week #3
Week #4
Week #5
Week #6
Week #7
Week #8
Week #9
Week #10
Week #11
Week #12
Week #13
Week #14
Week #15
Week #16
Week #17
Week #18
Week #19
Week #20
Week #21
Week #22
Week #23
Week #24
Week #25
Week #26
Week #27
Week #28
Week #29
Week #30
Week #31
Week #32
Week #33
Week #34
Week #35
Week #36
Week #37
Week #3 8
Week #39
Week #40
Week #41
Week #42
Week #43
Week #44
Week #45
Week #46
Week #47
Week #48
Week #49
Week #50
Week #51
Week #52
Week #53
Week #54
Week #55
Week #56
Week #57
Week #58
Week #59
Week #60
Week #61
Week #62
Week #63
Week #64
Week #65
Week #66
Week #67
Week #68
Week #69
Week #70
Week #71
Week #72
Week #73
Week #74
Week #75
Week #76
Week #77
Week #78
Week #79
Week #80
Week #81
Week #82
Week #83
Week #84
Week #85
Week #86
Week #87
Week #88
Week #89
Week #90
Week #91
Week #92
Week #93
Week #94
Week #95
Week #96
Week #97
Week #98
Week #99
Week #100
Week #101
Week #102
Week #103
Week #104
One folder containing a copy of the University of Syracuse Press "Atomic Bombs" and a review of this show from the Chicago Tribune
Week #1
Week #2
Week #3
Week #4
Week #5
Week #6
Week #7
Week #8
Week #10
Week #11
Week #12
Week #13
Week #14
Week #15
Week #16
Week #17
Week #18
Week #19
Week #20
Week #21
Week #22
Week #23
Week #24
Week #25
Week #26
Week #27
Week #28
Week #29
Week #30
Week #31
Week #32
Week #33
Week #34
Week #35
Week #36
Week #37
Week #38
Week #39
Week #40
Week #41
Week #42
Week #43
Week #44
Week #45
Week #46
Week #47
Week #48
Week #49
Week #50
Week #51
Week #52
Week #53
Week #54
Week #55
Week #56
Week #57
Week #58
Week #59
Week #60
Week #61
Week #62
Week #63
Week #64
Week #65
Week #66
Week #67
Week #68
Week #69
Week #70
Week #71
Week #72
Week #73
Week #74
Week #75
Week #76
Week #77
Week #78
Week #79
Week #80
Week #81
Week #82
Week #83
Week #84
Week #85
Week #86
Week #87
Week #88
Week #89
Week #90
Week #91
Week #92
Week #93
Week #94
Week #95
Week #96
Week #97
Week #98
Week #99
Week #100
Week #101
Week #102
Week #103
Week #104
Week #105
Week #106
Week #107
Week #108
Week #109
Week #110
Week #111
Week #112
Week #113
Week #114
Week #115
Week #116
Week #117
Week #118
Week #119
Week #120
Week #121
Week #122
Week #123
Week #124
Week #125
Week #126
Week #127
Week #128
Week #129
Week #130
Week #131
Week #132
Week #133
Week #134
Week #135
Week #136
Week #137
Week #138
Week #139
Week #140
Week #141
Week #142
Week #143
Week #144
Week #145
Week #146
Week #147
Week #148
Week #149
Week #150
Week #151
Week #152
Week #153
Week #154
Week #155
Week #156
Week #157
Week #158
Week #159
Week #160
Week #161
Week #162
Week #163
Week #164
Week #165
Week #166
Week #167
Week #168
Week #169
Week #170
Week #171
Week #172
Week #173
Week #174
Week #175
Week #176
Week #177
Week #178
Week #179
Week #180
Week #181
Week #182
Week #183
Week #184
Week #185
Week #186
Week #187
Week #188
Week #189
Week #190
Week #191
Week #192
Week #193
Week #194
Week #195
Week #196
Week #197
Week #198
Week #199
Week #200
Week #201
Week #202
Week #203
Week #204
Week #205
Week #206
Week #207
Week #208
Week #209
Week #210
Week #211
Week #212
Week #213
Week #214
Week #215
Week #216
Week #217
Week #218
Week #219
Week #220
Week #221
Week #222
Week #223
Week #224
Week #225
Week #226
Week #227
Week #228
Week #229
Week #230
Week #1
Week #2
Week #3
Week #4
Week #5
Week #6
Week #7
Week #8
Week #9
Week #10
Week #11
Week #12
Included are two copies of the screenplay and two copies of the screenplay treatment, showing the steps by which the scripts for a radio daytime serial became a viable screenplay.
Week #1621
Week #1622
Week #1623
Week #1624
Week #1625
Week #1626
Week #1627
Week #1628
Week #1629
Week #1630
Week #1631
Week #1632
Week #1633
Week #1634
Week #1635
Week #1636
Week #1637
Week #1638
Week #1639
Week #1640
Week #1641
Week #1642
Week #1643
Week #1644
Week #1645
Week #1646
Week #1647
Week #1648
Week #1649
Week #1650
Week #1651
Week #1652
Week #1653
Week #1654
Week #1655
Week #1656
Week #1657
Week #1658
Week #1659
Week #1660
Week #1661
Week #1662
Week #1663
Week #1664
Week #1665
Week #1666
Week #1667
Week #1668
Week #1669
Week #1670
Week #1671
Week #1672
Week #1673
Week #1674
Week #1675
Week #1676
Week #1677
Week #1678
Week #1679
Week #1680
Week #1
Week #2
Week #3
Week #4
Week #5
Week #6
Week #7
Week #8
Week #9
Week #10
Week #11
Week #12
Week #13
Week #14
Week #15
Week #16
Week #17
Week #18
Week #19
Week #20
Week #21
Week #22
Week #23
Week #24
Week #25
Week #26
Week #27
Week #28
Week #29
Week #30
Week #31
Week #32
Week #33
Week #34
Week #35
Week #36
Week #37
Week #38
Week #39
Week #40
Week #41
Week #42
Week #43
Week #44
Week #45
Week #46
Week #47
Week #49
Week #50
Week #51
Week #52
Week #53
Week #54
Week #55
Week #56
Week #57
Week #58
Week #59
Week #1
Week #2
Week #3
Week #4
Week #5
Week #6
Week #7
Week #8
Week #9
Week #10
Week #11
Week #12
Week #13
Week #14
Week #15
Week #16
Week #17
Week #18
Week #19
Week #20
Week #21
Week #22
Week #23
Week #24
Week #25
Week #1
Week #2
Week #3
Week #4
Week #5
Week #6
Week #7
Week #8
Week #9
Week #10
Week #11
Week #12
Week #13
Week #14
Week #15
Week #16
Week #17
Week #18
Week #19
Week #20
Week #21
Week #22
Week #23
Week #1
Week #2
Week #3
Week #4
Week #5
Week #6
Week #7
Week #8
Week #9
Week #10
Week #11
Week #12
Week #13
Week #14
Week #15
Week #16
Week #17
Week #18
Week #19
Week #20
Week #21
Week #22
Week #23
Week #24
Week #25
Week #26
Week #27
Week #28
Week #29
Week #30
Week #31
Week #32
Week #33
Week #34
Week #35
Week #36
Week #37
Week #38
Week #39
Week #40
Week #41
Week #42
Week #43
Week #44
Week #45
Week #46
Week #47
Week #48
Week #49
Week #50
Week #51
Week #52
Week #53
Week #54
Week #55
Week #56
Week #57
Week #58
Week #59
Week #60
Week #61
Week #62
Week #63
Week #64
Week #65
Week #66
Week #67
Week #68
Week #69
Week #70
Week #71
Week #72
Week #73
Week #74
Week #75
Week #76
Week #77
Week #78
Week #79
Week #80
Week #81
Week #82
Week #83
Week #84
Week #85
Week #86
Week #87
Week #88
Week #89
Week #90
Week #91
Week #92
Week #93
Week #94
Week #95
Week #96
Week #97
Week #98
Week #99
Week #100
Week #101
Week #102
Week #103
Week #104
Week #105
Week #106
Week #107
Week #108
Week #109
Week #110
Week #111
Week #112
Week #113
Week #114
Week #115
Week #116
Week #117
Week #118
Week #119
Week #120
Week #121
Week #122
Week #123
Week #124
Week #125
Week #126
Week #127
Week #128
Week #129
Week #61-65
Week #66-70
Week #71-75
Week #76-80
Week #81-85
Week #86-90
Week #91-95
Week #16-100
Week #101-105
Week #106-110
Week #111-115
Week #116-120
Week #121-125
Week #126-130
Week #131-135
Week #136-140
Week #141-145
Week #146-150
Week #151-155
Week #156-160
Week #161-165
Week #166-170
Week #171-175
Week #176-180
Week #181-185
Week #186-190
Week #191-195
Week #196-200
Week #201-205
Week #206-210
Week #211-215
Week #216-220
Week #221-225
Week #226-230
Week #231-235
Week #236-240
Week #241-245
Week #246-250
Week #251-255
Week #256-259
Week #1-5
Week #6-10
Week #11-15
Week #16-20
Week #21-25
Week #26-30
Week #31-35
Week #36-40
Week #41-45
Week #46-50
Week #51-55
Week #56-60
Week #61-65
Week #66-70
Week #71-75
Week #76-80
Week #81-85
Week #86-90
Week #91-95
Week #96-100
Week #101-105
Week #106-110
Week #111-115
Week #116-120
Week #121-125
Week #126-130
Week #131-135
Week #136-140
Week #141-145
Week #146-150
Week #151-155
Week #156-160
Week #161-165
Week #166-170
Week #171-175
Week #176-180
Week #181-185
Week #186-190
Week #191-195
Week #196-200
Week #201-205
Week #206-210
Week #211-215
Week #216-220
Week #221-225
Week #226-230
Week #231-235
Week #238-240
Week #241-245
Week #246-250
Week #251-255
Week #256-260
Week #1-5
Week #6-10
Week #11-15
Week #16-20
Week #21-25
Week #26-30
Week #31-35
Week #36-40
Week #41-45
Week #46-50
Week #51-55
Week #56-60
Week #61-65
Week #66-67, 74 & 75
Week #76-80
Week #81-85
Week #86-90
Week #91-95
Week #96-100
Week #101-105
Week #106-110
Week #111-115
Week #116-120
Week #121-125
Week #126-130
Week #131-135
Week #136-140
Week #141-145
Week #146-150
Week #151-155
Week #156-160
Week #161-165
Week #166-170
Week #171-175
Week #176-180
Week #181-185
Week #186-190
Week #191-195
Week #196-200
Week #201-205
Week #206-210
Week #211-215
Week #216-220
Week #221-225
Week #226-230
Week #231-235
Week #236-240
Week #241-245
Week #246-250
Week #251-255
Week #1-5
Week #6-10
Week #11-15
Week #16-20
Week #21-25
Week #26-30
Week #31-35
Week #36-40
Week #41-45
Week #46-50
Week #51-55
Week #56-60
Week #61-65
Week #66-70
Week #71-75
Week #76-80
Week #81-85
Week #86-90
Week #91-95
Week #96-100
Week #101-105
Week #106-110
Week #111-115
Week #116-120
Week #121-125
Week #126-130
Week #131-135
Week #136-140
Week #141-145
Week #146-150
Week #151-155
Week #156-160
Week #161-165
Week #166-170
Week #171-175
Week #176-180
Week #181-185
Week #186-190
Week #191-195
Week #196-200
Week #201-205
Week #206-210
Week #211-215
Week #216-220
Week #221-225
Week #226-230
Week #231-235
Week #235-240
Week #241-245
Week #246-250
Week #251-255
Week #256-260
Week #261-262
Week #3-5
Week #6-10
Week #11-15
Week #16-20
Week #21-25
Week #26-30
Week #31-35
Week #36-40
Week #41-45
Week #46-50
Week #51-55
Week #56-60
Week #61-65
Week #1651-1652
Week #1653-1655
Week #1656-1660
Week #1661-1665
Week #1666-1670
Week #1671-1675
Week #1676-1680
Week #1681-1685
Week #1686-1690
Week #1691-1695
Week #1696-1700
Week #1701-1705
Week #1706-1710
Week #1711-1715
Week #1716-1720
Week #1721-1725
Week #1726-1730
Week #1731-1735
Week #1736-1740
Week #1741-1745
Week #1746-1750
Week #1751-1755
Week #1756-1760
Week #1761-1765
Week #1766-1770
Week #1771-1775
Week #1776-1780
Week #1781-1785
Week #1786-1790
Week #1791-1795
Week #1796-1800
Week #1801-1805
Week #1806-1810
Week #1811-1815
Week #1816-1820
Week #1821-1825
Week #1826-1830
Week #1826-1830
Week #1821-1835
Week #1836-1840
Week #1841-1845
Week #1846-1850
Week #1851-1855
Week #1856-1860
Week #1861-1865
Week #1866-1870
Week #1871-1875
Week #1876-1880
Week #1881-1885
Week #1886-1890
Week #1891-1895
Week #1896-1900
Week #1901-1905
Week #1906-1908
Week #1909-1910
Week #1911-1915
Week #1916-1920
Week #1921-1925
Week #1926-1930
Week #1931-1935
Week #1936-1940
Week #1941-1945
Week #1946-1950
Week #1951-1955
Week #1956-1960
Week #1961-1965
Week #1966-1970
Week #1971-1975
Week #1976-1980
Week #1981-1985
Week #1986-1990
Week #1991-1995
Week #1996-2000
Week #2001-2005
Week #2006-2010
Week #2011-2015
Week #2016-2020
Week #2021-2025
Week #2026-2030
Week #2031-2035
Week #2036-2040
Week #2041-2045
Week #2046-2050
Week #2051-2055
Week #2056-2060
Week #2061-2065
Week #2066-2070
Week #2071-2075
Week #2076-2080
Week #2081-2085
Week #2086-2090
Week #2091-2095
Week #2096-2100
Week #2101-2105
Week #2106-2110
Week #2111-2115
Week #2116-2120
Week #2121-2125
Week #2126-2130
Week #2131-2135
Week #2136-2140
Week #2141-2145
Week #2146-2150
Week #2151-2155
Week #2156-2160
Week #2161-2165
Week #2161-2165
Week #2166-2169
Week #2170-2175
Week #2176-2180
Week #2181-2185
Week #2186-2190
Week #2191-2195
Week #2196-2200
Week #2201-2205
Week #2206-2210
Week #2211-2215
Week #2216-2220
Week #2221-2225
Week #2226-2230
Week #2231-2235
Week #2236-2240
Week #2241-2245
Week #2246-2250
Week #2251-2255
Week #2256-2260
Week #2261-2265
Week #2266-2270
Week #2271-2275
Week #2276-2280
Week #2281-2285
Week #2286-2290
Week #2291-2295
Week #2296-2300
Week #2301-2305
Week #2306-2310
Week #2311-2315
Week #2316-2320
Week #2321-2325
Week #2326-2330
Week #2331-2335
Week #2336-2340
Week #2341-2345
Week #2346-2350
Week #2351-2355
Week #2356-2360
Week #2361-2365
Week #2366-2370
Week #2371-2375
Week #2376-2380
Week #2381-2385
Week #2386-2390
Week #2391-2395
Week #2396-2400
Week #2401-2405
Week #2406-2410
Week #2411-2415
Week #2416-2420
Week #2421-2425
Week #2426-2430
Week #2431-2435
Week #2436-2440
Week #2441-2445
Week #2446-2450
Week #2451-2455
Week #2456-2460
Week #2461-2465
Week #2466-2470
Week #2471-2475
Week #2476-2480
Week #2481-2485
Week #2486-2490
Week #2491-2495
Week #2496-2500
Week #2501-2505
Week #2506-2510
Week #2511-2515
Week #2521-2525
Week #2526-2530
Week #2531-2535
Week #2536-2540
Week #2541-2545
Week #2546-2550
Week #2551-2555
Week #2556-2560
Week #2561-2565
Week #2566-2570
Week #2571-2575
Week #2576-2580
Week #2581-2585
Week #2586-2590
Week #2591-2595
Week #2596-2600
Week #2601-2605
Week #2686-2610
Week #2611-2615
Week #2616-2620
Week #2621-2625
Week #2626-2630
Week #2631-2635
Week #2636-2640
Week #2641-2645
Week #2646-2650
Week #2651-2655
Week #2656-2660
Week #2661-2665
Week #2666-2670
Week #2671-2675
Week #2676-2680
Week #2681-2685
Week #2686-2690
Week #2691-2695
Week #2696-2700
Week #2701-2705
Week #2706-2710
Week #2711-2715
Week #2716-2120
Week #2721-2725
Week #2726-2730
Week #2731-2735
Week #2736-2740
Week #2741-2745
Week #2746-2750
Week #2751-2755
Week #2756-2760
Week #2761-2765
Week #2766-2770
Week #2771-2775
Week #2776-2780
Week #2781-2785
Week #2786-2790
Week #2791-2795
Week #2796-2800
Week #2801-2805
Week #2806-2810
Week #2811-2815
Week #2816-2820
Week #2821-2825
Week #2826-2830
Week #2831-2835
Week #2836-2840
Week #2841-2845
Week #2846-2850
Week #2851-2855
Week #2856-2860
Week #2861-2865
Week #2866-2870
Week #2871-2875
Week #2876-2880
Week #2831-2885
Week #2886-2890
Week #2891-2895
Week #2896-2900
Week #2901-2905
Week #2906-2910
Week #2911-2915
Week #2916-2920
Week #2921-2925
Week #2926-2930
Week #2931-2935
Week #2936-2940
Week #2941-2945
Week #2946-2947
Week #2953-2955
Week #2956-2950
Week #2961-2965
Week #2966-2970
Week #2971-2975
Week #2976-2980
Week #2981-2935
Week #2986-2990
Week #2991-2995
Week #2990-3000
Week #3001-3005
Week #3006-3010
Week #3011-3015
Week #3016-3020
Week #3021-3025
Week #3026-3030
Week #3031-3035
Week #3036-3040
Week #3041-3045
Week #3046-3050
Week #3051-3055
Week #3056-3060
Week #3061-3065
Week #3066-3070
Week #3071-3075
Week #3076-3080
Week #3081-3085
Week #3086-3090
Week #3091-3095
Week #3096-3100
Week #3101-3105
Week #3106-3110
Week #3111-3115
Week #3116-3120
Week #3121-3125
Week #3131-3135
Week #3136-3140
Week #3141-3145
Week #3146-3150
Week #3151-3155
Week #3156-3160
Week #3161-3165
Week #3166-3170
Week #3171-3175
Week #3176-3180
Week #3181-3185
Week #3136-3190
Week #3191-3195
Week #3196-3200
Week #3201-3205
Week #3206-3210
Week #3211-3215
Week #3216-3217
Week #3218-3220
Week #3221-3225
Week #3226-3230
Week #3231-3235
Week #3236-3240
Week #3241-3245
Week #3246-3250
Week #3251-3255
Week #3256-3260
Week #3261-3265
Week #3266-3270
Week #3271-3275
Week #3276-3280
Week #3281-3285
Week #3286-3290
Week #3291-3295
Week #3296-3300
Week #3301-3305
Week #3306-3310
Week #3311-3315
Week #3316-3320
Week #3321-3325
Week #3326-3330
Collection consists of case files from Lonabaugh's law practice. There are two boxes of oil related case files and three of general case files. Principals in the cases include Peter Kooi and the Kooi Coal Company, Alaska-Wyoming Oil Company, Ohio Oil Company and Marshall Field.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains reports and speeches by H. Gerald Bobst regarding soil conservation and irrigation on the plains.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains a photocopy of a transcript of a journal written by Mary E. Almy during a journey by military ambulance with her daughter and granddaughter in 1891 from Fort Waskakie, Wyoming, to Casper, Wyoming. The ambulance was escorted by the Ninth United States Cavalry Regiment, Company E. The Ninth Cavalry Regiment was one of a few segregated African American regiments. Although the transcript is only eight pages, Almy's descriptions of the march, the soldiers, and camp life are detailed.
Collection contains primarily motion picture and stage scripts produced by Michael and Fay Kanin along with related production materials spanning their career. The collection contains manuscripts, teleplays, burlesque sketches, photographs, newspaper clippings, books, magazines, box office statements, contracts and agreements, correspondence, pressbooks, scrapbooks, souvenir books, sheet music, movie posters and placards, movie reels and audiotapes. Personal research material and interviews used for character outlines and development for a 1980s project based on South Africa are also included.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 39 pieces of correspondence (1918-1967), including 3 letters from Archibald B. Roosevelt, son of Theodore Roosevelt and Freeman's classmate at Yale; photographs and film stills; miscellaneous theater programs; 3 scrapbooks (1932-1948); scripts for the theatrical productions of "Erasmus--With Freckles", "Hot Spot," and "No Time for Sergeants" and the television programs "The Baileys of Balboa" and "Route 66" (1946-1964); 8 contracts for acting performances; the eulogy delivered at Howard Freeman's funeral by his son William Freeman Schoppe; artifacts; and a 215 page diary kept by Ruth D. Freeman while on tour with Howard Freeman for the play "No Time for Sergeants" (1957-1958).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains a minute book for the board of directors and a book of stock certificates for the Coldwater Copper Mining Company (1900-1915); and a general journal (1904-1907), a cashbook (1904-1911), a book of stock certificates, and miscellaneous correspondence (1904-1907) for the Wolverine Mining & Leasing Company.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Two scripts from the television program "Room 222."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence (1916-1964); maps of the United States (1939-1941); newspaper clippings (1906-1964); reports by Harrington on stream gauging and snow measurement in New York (1934-1955); the manuscript for "Stream Flow"; photographs of Harrington (1937-1956); and minutes of meetings (1938-1947) and budgets (1946-1947) of the American Society of Civil Engineers.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The papers include gubernatorial papers (1885-1892); senatorial papers (1890-1945); the records of: Warren Livestock Company (1884-1957); Guiterman and Warren (1878-1880); Miner and Warren (1878-1883); Post and Warren (1880-1884); Brush-Swan Electric Light Co., Cheyenne City Gas Co., and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power (1882-1905); Cheyenne Black Hills and Montana Railway Co. (1883-1889); Cheyenne Carriage Co. (1883-1900); Cheyenne Street Railroad Co. (1887-1907); Wyoming Phonograph Co. (1889-1891); Cheyenne Investment Co. (1889-1911); Warren Irrigation Co. (1909-1915); Cheyenne Hotels Co. (1910-1913); Cheyenne Securities Co. (1910-1961); A.R. Converse (1867-1874); Converse and Warren (1874-1878); F.E. Warren Company (1878-1883); F.E. Warren Mercantile Co. (1883-1961); and others. Also included are papers of F.E. Warren's son, Fred E. Warren; correspondence with Francis E. Warren's daughter Helen and son-in-law General John J. Pershing; and one series of papers of W.W. Gleason, manager of the Warren Livestock Company.
Also included are papers of F.E. Warren's son, Fred E. Warren; correspondence with Francis E. Warren's daughter Helen and son-in-law General John J. Pershing; and one series of papers of W.W. Gleason, manager of the Warren Livestock Company.
The Francis E. Warren Papers, 1868-1974, include political, business and personal material. There are letterpress copybooks, financial books, scrapbooks, correspondence and photographs documenting F. E. Warren's political, business and personal life.
Political material includes scrapbooks of F. E. Warren's political life, general correspondence as well as government letterpress copybooks, military affairs and congressional reports. Information on the Johnson County War is included as well as telegrams in code.
The history of Warren Live Stock Company, located in Cheyenne, Wyoming, is documented in journals, ledgers, and day and cash books, leases and legal and financial material. Includes federal government papers investigating enclosure of public lands and the 1906 fencing case against Warren. W. W. Gleason's personal papers are also included. Much of the correspondence with the company is in telegrams.
F. E. Warren's other business interests are documented in record books and correspondence concerning his many companies. The largest of these, in addition to Warren Live Stock Company, are F. E. Warren Mercantile, Cheyenne Securities Company and Cheyenne Hotel Company, which owned the Plains Hotel and Opera House.
Personal materials include F. E. Warren's correspondence with his son, Fred, first wife, Helen, and other personal and general correspondence. There are estate, legal and financial documents, as well as newspaper clippings and scrapbooks of invitations. Box 19, folder 4, contains papers related to F. E. Warren's decorated service during the Civil War.
Arranged chronologically. Letterpress copybooks including political, business and personal correspondence.
Arranged chronologically. Letterpress copybooks including political, business and personal correspondence.
Arranged chronologically. Letterpress copybooks including political, business and personal correspondence.
Arranged chronologically. Letterpress copybooks including political and personal correspondence.
Arranged chronologically and alphabetically. Letterpress copybooks, correspondence, documents and other records created during Warren's tenure as governor. Also includes some correspondence of Governor Amos W. Barber.
Correspondence and letterpress copybooks regarding Warren's senate years.
Letterpress copybooks and correspondence. Includes information on Senator Warren's military pension.
Scrapbooks of political and business subjects and travels. Includes clippings, photographs and documents.
Correspondence deals with all aspects of Francis E. Warrens life: personal, business, sheep raising, wool and politics. This series is divided into 2 subseries:
The letterbooks are arranged chronologically, boxes are arranged alphabetically. Correspondence deals with personal, business and associational matters. This series is divided into 3 subseries:
Included are tax returns, estate and will papers, deeds, mortgages, ledgers, journals, bills and receipts. This series is divided into 8 subseries:
8 invitational scrapbooks are arranged chronologically, 1 scrapbook deals with the death of Frances (Warren) Pershing and her three daughters, the Pershing Memorial Hospital and John J. Pershing's career. One scrapbook is news clippings concerning the railroad in 1909. This series is divided into 3 subseries:
Arranged alphabetically. Includes biographies, marriage certificate, Medal of Honor, military pension, family interests, F.E.W. and John J. Pershing newspaper clippings, and a copied letter from Theodore Roosevelt (1910).
Arranged alphabetically. Includes Bantayan Islands with letter from King Harry N. McLauley, Theodore Roosevelt, San Francisco, Helen (Smith) Warren, Mary Helen Warren, steel plate portraits of F.E.W. and his funeral, unidentified photographs and photograph negatives from Warren Live Stock Company.
General and personal correspondence.
Arranged chronologically by year and alphabetically by company or personal name of the signer. Contains correspondence concerning the daily operation of Warren Live Stock. Includes telegrams and letters dealing with the federal, state, and local authorities as well as businesses nationwide whose services were necessary to operating a livestock company. Includes telegrams and correspondence from F.E. Warren.
Arranged chronologically by year and alphabetically by agency or personal name of signer. Contains legal documents, statements, and correspondence regarding the dealings of Warren Live Stock with the federal government, including documentation of Warren's defense against federal allegations of illegal enclosure of public lands in 1906. This series is divided into 2 subseries:
Arranged chronologically by year and alphabetically by company, agency, or personal name of the Signer. Contains grazing leases, Union Pacific land leases, bills of sale, mortgages, agreements, statements, school and state land leases and reservoir filings all pertaining to Warren Live Stock Company.
Arranged chronologically by year and by company or personal name. Contains records of daily transactions between Warren Live Stock and various customers. Includes bills payable and bills receivable.
Arranged chronologically by year. Contains cash on hand statements for Warren Live Stock and other companies affiliated with them.
Arranged chronologically by year. Letterpress copybooks containing outgoing correspondence from Warren Live Stock to various companies and individuals with which it did business.
Includes a Warren Live Stock charge blotter, time sheets, (1917-1923, 1931-1939), general ledger index, plat book, lease record (1901 to 1912), land office plats and map of Warren Live Stock lands, trial balance book (1926-1930), and a workers' time book (1899-1904)
Arranged alphabetically by company or name of addressor. Contains personal and business correspondence received by W.W. Gleason concerning the operation of Warren Live Stock Company and Gleason Mercantile Company. This correspondence includes letters and telegrams from F.E. Warren.
Correspondence, legal documents, journals, ledgers, cash books, day books, inventories, and newspaper clippings
Arranged chronologically. Correspondence, legal documents, invoices, receipts, ledgers, journals, cash books, day books and record books.
Arranged chronologically. Correspondence, legal documents, statements, newspaper and clippings.
Arranged chronologically. Correspondence, legal documents, maps, sketches, newspaper clippings and statements. This series is divided into 2 subseries:
Arranged chronologically according to document's filing date. Quit claim deeds, warranty deeds, mortgages, releases, bills of sale, leases, liens, abstracts of title, proofs of labor, stock brands, deeds of trust, mining notices of location, affidavits, homestead certificates, foreclosure deeds, bonds, and chattel mortgages.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains research material used in the creation of Vaughn's books and articles, including correspondence (1865-1958), manuscripts, periodicals, newsletters, newspaper clippings, biographical papers, blueprints, and a scrapbook. Also included are photographs depicting sites of forts such as Fort Fetterman, Fort Laramie, and Fort Reno, as well as sites where battles took place.
Includes copy prints of historic photographs, as well as photographs taken by J.W. Vaughn and others of historic battle sites.
Collection contains files of correspondence, notes, drafts, illustrations, and proof sheets chiefly related to the fifth and sixth editions of "Field Geology" (1948-1961); 3 photograph albums; negatives; pamphlets and reprints; and 3 16 mm motion pictures of trips to Venezuela (1926) and Mexico City (1935).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains primarily scripts written by Arnold along with some notes, drafts and other related materials for many television programs including mainly "Barney Miller," "Fish," "That Girl" and "The Wackiest Ship in the Army."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains official correspondence and memos, mostly orders related to Rapsilber’s aviation career, but also memos regarding CAA policy (1938-1963); articles on aviation, including several by Rapsilber; newspaper clippings regarding aviation; Rapsilber’s pilot log book; and maps and aeronautical charts. There are Civil Aeronautics Authority property certificates; issues of CAA Memo (1953-1958) and Fly By (1961); and Rapsilber’s travel vouchers. Also included are photographs of the Dodge City, Kansas, airport and the 1957 snow storm.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Paul Ottenstein photograph album contains photos pertaining to asphalt road construction in Nebraska, South Dakota and Wyoming. Photographs in the album also include images of vehicles owned and operated by the Wyoming Highway Department and the White Eagle Oil and Refining Co. The album also contains a map of western states showing the distribution territory of the White Eagle Oil and Refining Co.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes correspondence (1950-1963); typed manuscripts and galley proofs of four books, "Rim-rocked," "Prisoner in the Circle," "Stand by for Danger," and "Search for the Hidden Places"; eleven drawings for "Rim-rocked" and one for "Stand by for Danger"; research materials on the Northern Cheyenne tribe (1886-1961); seven scrapbooks on American Indians, with a detailed table of contents (1951-1973); materials on the World Friendship Society of Radio Amateurs; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains information relating to Jones' clothing store and the Western Oil and Gas Company. The collection includes correspondence (1928-1937) regarding Jones' store; ledgers (1906-1942) dealing with sales, inventories and expense accounts; catalogs of Jones' store (1938); newsclippings and advertisements of the store (1936-1942); and a manuscript by Jones in 1905 about his trip to Yellowstone National Park. The collection also includes Western Oil and Gas Company agreements and contracts (1908-1921); stock certificates (1918-1920); correspondence (1908-1925); and Board of Directors minutes of meetings (1908-1922).
Collection mainly concerns Isaac and William Ellwood's barbed wire and Percheron horse breeding businesses (including I.L. Ellwood and Company, Ellwood Wire and Nail Company, I.L. Ellwood Manufacturing Company, and Will Ellwood Company), but also contains significant amounts of material concerning their ranching, farming, and mining interests. The collection consists of the Ellwoods' business correspondence, letter books, financial ledgers, and legal documents. Miscellaneous business files (containing correspondence, legal documents, and financial documents) and miscellaneous financial documents are in this collection as well.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains the scripts for 30 plays authored by Mitchell, including "Becky Sharp" and "The New York Idea"; personal and professional correspondence (1890-1934); speeches; 2 scrapbooks; miscellaneous photographs; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains the corporate records of the Universal Oil Products Company from inception to the 1970s which include the Legal Department with documentation of numerous legal actions taken by the company in patent actions and mergers among other actions. These files contain a wide variety of legal documentation including photographs and other evidentiary materials dating back to the early years of the company. The files of the Records Center, highlighted in a 1978 article titled "Records Management at UOP, Inc." in "Information and Records Management " are included. Blueprints, site information, photographs, some personnel records, and other documentation are contained.
Collection includes notes on 19th century political scientist Francis Lieber and economic developments in the Civil War era; glass slides related to Civil War history; illustrations related to Civil War history; publications by Nevins; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection includes correspondence (1929-1979); subject files containing correspondence, research notes, etc. (1929-1974); newspaper clippings; and research notebooks which contain correspondence, contracts with publishers, etc.
Manuscripts with related correspondence of some of this author's Western novels.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection consists mainly of background materials Fuller gathered in relation to each of these cases, including reports, bulletins, maps, statistics, and newspaper clippings. There are also Fuller's notes, briefs, exhibits and other court documents. In addition there are subject files of materials on various industries and corporations Fuller gathered in the course of his work. Materials include annual reports of companies, newspaper clippings, and Fuller's notes on many railroads, airlines, and oil, gas and mining companies.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Most of the collection contains Ploetz’s military orders and special orders (1941-1967). Also included are correspondence (1941-1967); newspaper clippings about Ploetz (1955-1967); photographs of Ploetz and military subjects (1941-1963); a U.S. Air Force ROTC summer camp schedule (1952); awards and certificates given to Ploetz; artifacts from Ploetz’s Far East duty; and foreign currency.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection consists of picture postcards of the construction of the transcontinental railroad by the Union Pacific and Central Pacific Railroads, locomotives, Pullman sleeping cars and various other railroad scenes in the American West from 1866-1870.
Collection consists of 13 pieces of correspondence (1897-1898); 2 mining reports for mines in California (1896, 1907); newspaper clippings (1901-1930); photographs of mining operations in Alaska and Idaho (1885-1930); a blueprint of the Centennial Eureka Mine in Juab County, Utah; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains the manuscript of this author's work about Elizabeth Bacon Custer, "General Custer's Libbie."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains, photographs, manuscripts written by and about Allan Dwan, government documents, awards, gifts, video cassettes, correspondence, film agreements, purchases, artifacts and certificates.
This material has been archivally housed but has not been organized.
Collection contains the manuscripts for the book "Sense of Direction," and for an entry in Encyclopedia Brittanica on directing by this theatrical director. Collection also contains newspaper clippings and pamphlets from the Meadow Brook Theatre Company; a letter, articles, and programs from the Shakespeare on the Desert project; and a telegram.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains 17 boxes of legal case folders, 5 boxes of legal documents and 3 boxes of manuscripts, speeches and original poetry. The collection also contains 7 boxes of correspondence (1841-1943) and 1 box of maps, and blueprints and scrapbooks, photographs and printed material. There are also 20 financial ledgers and account books which preserve records of Arnold's business interests.
The collection includes correspondence, assay reports, mine reports, maps, and photographs, all related to McGinnis' consulting work (1908-1955). There are also federal and California income tax returns for 1954-1956.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
A September 19, 1861 letter by Upper Platte Agency Indian Agent Joseph Cody from what is now Converse County, Wyoming to his sister describing the distribution of food and other goods.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 13 handwritten journals chiefly related to World War I relief efforts in Russia and France; scrapbooks; files including Red Cross work, support of Al Smith for president in 1928, National Council of the Churches of Christ social ideals committee, speeches and articles; books by Devine; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Scripts for "The Line-up" and "Peyton Place."
The Robert Easton papers include correspondence, clippings, manuscripts, notebooks, photographs, and other materials concerning his life and literary career. The papers are an excellent primary source about Easton’s literary activities, revealing how he conceived, researched, and developed his works and how they appeared in their final form. They also document the evolution of Easton’s literary style throughout the course of his career.
This collection provides much information about Easton himself. The papers document the events of his life and career and how he coped with them. They also reveal much about the private Robert Easton throughout his adult life. These papers reveal him to be a man heavily influenced by the historical, social, and cultural developments of the American West. They also document the impact these influences had upon his literary work.
Collection contains the manuscript of this author’s novel, “Comanche Captives”.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The manuscript, photographs, research notes and related correspondence for the book "A Century of Fisheries in North America" which was edited by Benson.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains an article titled “The First Fifteen Years” describing the history of the Pearl Harbor Survivors Association (PHSA) from 1958 to 1973; a reprint of the Congressional Record from May 7, 1973 regarding a bill to incorporate PHSA; newsletters of PHSA (1971-1974); pamphlets and schedules related to reunions (1971, 1973, 1984), and a pamphlet published for PSHA members showing photos of the Pearl Harbor attack. The collection also contains the pamphlet “White Caps: Sketches” by Anna Urda Busby published for PHSA members in December 1974 regarding U.S. Army nurses in World War II (includes sketches of Anna Urda Busby, Phyllis Dana, Harriet Moore Holmes, Margaret Olsson, Hubertina Schepers Whetsell, and Anna Danyo Willgrube). There is also one printed color poster of the USS Arizona Memorial at Pearl Harbor.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Frank Cooper collection consists of 2 letters (photocopied) sent by Cooper from Laramie, Wyoming, to his family in Nottingham, England describing Wyoming and a trip from New York to Laramie.
About forty letters to Estelle Hill LaMar, some personal and some relating to LaMar’s attempts to make a name for herself as a composer. Also, there are photographs of C.T. Hoecke, a local Houston, Texas, actor who performed in LaMar’s Chimes of Normandy.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Correspondence (1935-1967); the manuscripts and galleys and a small amount of research materials for the books "Splendid Poseur," "Vicki," "Fool's Gold," and "Adah Isaacs Menken" (written by Joaquin Miller ca. 1892); 1 scrapbook; miscellaneous other writings by Marberry; and miscellaneous photographs.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence, a speech, and books and several articles on investment banking by Fennelly.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes blueprints of numerous Wyoming buildings (1899-1965); architectural drawings; negatives; black and white photographs; 20 pieces of correspondence; biographical material; lists of buildings designed by Porter and his associates; scrapbooks related to his architectural projects; newspaper clippings; subject files; awards and certificates; and miscellaneous other materials.
Project files include manuscripts and articles, scripts, research files, and other documents relating to projects produced by and associated with De Rochemont. Correspondence includes subjects both personal and professional in nature. Personal and professional files include documents, research materials, membership files, newspaper clippings, engagement diaries, Vavin, Inc. records, and other files both personal and professional in scope. The films include 16mm and 35mm films produced by De Rochemont, including March of Time and films produced for the Readers Digest Association and the French Government Tourist Office. The photographs depict both De Rochemont’s personal life as well as the production of his various films, including March of Time. Audio contains reel-to-reel audio tapes, including sound for some of De Rochemont’s films.
Arranged alphabetically. Contains manuscripts, articles, scripts, research files, and other material related to films, books, and articles produced by De Rochemont.
Arranged alphabetically. Contains personal and professional correspondence with both individuals and organizations.
Arranged alphabetically. Contains documents, research materials, membership files, newspaper clippings, engagement diaries, Vavin, Inc. records, and other files both personal and professional in scope.
Includes films produced, written, or directed by De Rochemont. Contains 4 sub-series: Reader’s Digest, March of Time, French Government Tourist Office, and Informational and other. Many of the films include the final print, originals and clips, and inter-negatives.
Arranged alphabetically by title. Contains films produced by De Rochemont and his production company, Vavin, Inc., for Reader’s Digest Association.
Arranged alphabetically by title. Contains March of Time
newsreel films.
Arranged alphabetically by title and subject. Contains informational films produced for the French Government Tourist Office (FGTO).
Arranged alphabetically. Contains films, primarily informational, produced for various companies and organizations by De Rochemont, Vavin, Inc., and Louis De Rochemont’s production company. Organizations for which De Rochemont produced informational films include American Iron and Steel Institute, Mobil Oil Corporation, and the Moroccan Ministry of Tourism.
Arranged alphabetically. Contains photographs created during the production of De Rochemont films (including the March of Time newsreels), as well as personal and family photographs of De Rochemont. Series includes prints, color slides, and negatives.
Arranged alphabetically. Contains reel-to-reel audio tapes, including sound for some of De Rochemont’s films, and four phonograph records. All are reel-to-reel unless otherwise labeled.
The Henry King collection contains scripts and publicity materials for many of the motion pictures King directed, including “Romola”, “Jesse James”, “Carousel”, “Chicago”, “Prince of Foxes”, “Twelve O’clock High”, and “Tender Is the Night”. There are production stills and other photographs, as well as reviews of some of King’s motion pictures. There is also a musical score from “Carousel”.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection consists of a 4 page letter sent to Davis' wife Ella M. Davis describing the Thornburg Massacre; a powder horn and a bullet which was removed from Davis' foot following the attack; a 1908 souvenir booklet for J.W. Hugus & Company; 2 photographs of Davis; an 1874 certificate of appointment as postmaster in Carbon County, Wyoming; newsclippings on Davis and the Thornburg Massacre (1880-1924); and 6 letters, newsclippings and miscellaneous other materials relating to Davis' involvement in the Thornburg Massacre and John C. Davis' son, Roblin H. Davis' involvement in marking the Overland Trail in Carbon County, Wyoming (1922-1942).
The Garrett W. Price Papers contain mainly Price's artwork from 1918-1969, including cover illustrations for "The New Yorker" with drafts and sketches; cartoons; sketches and sketchbooks, including his works while in France and Mexico and a picture diary of those trips; advertisements; illustrations for books and book covers; and watercolors. The collection also contains diaries (1942-1973); correspondence with editors and his family (1909-1973); miscellaneous biographical information and photographs (1912-1976); and publications (1935-1968). The artwork gives a good representation of Garrett's professional work. From it one is able to discern the different periods of his professional life and artistic methods. Particularly insightful are his personal notes attached to certain items that explain how he came up with an idea or what troubles he had getting it published. The correspondence, especially the notes and letters from magazine editors shows how much the artists had to do to get their work published.\\\
Collection includes hand drawn and printed maps; reports on mining districts and minerals; field notebooks; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains membership lists, correspondence, minutes of meetings, cash books and financial reports of the Association.
Collection contains Houghton and Cotter mercantile business records in South Pass, Wyoming and a letter concerning the Shoshone Indian agency.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
The collection includes handwritten and typed drafts of Wilson's reminiscences of the Spanish-American War; a handwritten manuscript regarding a military operation from Fort McKinney, "History of the Salt Creek Expedition of 1894"; three hand drawn maps (1898, 1935) related to the Battle of El Caney; and miscellaneous materials related to his Spanish-American War service.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The L.L Newton Papers primarily concern the history of Lander and Fremont County in Wyoming. The correspondence and manuscripts focus on early settlers in the area. In addition to narratives and personal reminiscences there are several lists of names of early settlers. The collection also contains correspondence and council minutes from the Shoshone and Arapahoe business councils on the Wind River Reservation.
Collection contains business and personal correspondence (1925-1982); professional files; field notebooks (1916-1933); maps; manuscripts; memorandums; reports; speeches; legal documents; biographical information; and miscellaneous other materials. Correspondents include geologists, business associates and General Lewis B. Hershey, who directed military drafts from World War II through the Vietnam War.
This series contains personal and professional correspondence, arranged by date and then alphabetically by correspondent.
This series contains personal and family files, arranged by alphabetically.
This series contains professional papers, arranged alphabetically by company or association.
Manuscripts of two of this author's books, "The Greatest Cattle Drive," a juvenile book on the Western cattle trade, and "Spawn of Evil," a non-fiction book on outlaws.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Letters, diaries, photographs, flags and other miscellaneous materials related to this mountaineer's expeditions in the Karakoram Range (K-2) in the Himalaya Mountains, and Idaho, Washington, Alaska, Canada and Pakistan.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Western Writers of America records contain organizational records, including membership renewals, financial records, invoices, and convention memorabilia. In addition there are legal documents, research files, biographical information, press releases, newspaper and magazine clippings, and photographs. The collection also contains printer's blocks (including images of authors) used in book printing, issues of the organization's newsletter, "The Roundup, and books authored by writers of the organization.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains material compiled by members and officers of the Daughters of the American Colonists. Four scrapbooks document club activities through newspaper clippings, membership lists, photographs, publications, and copies of papers and reports written by members. The research material includes both Wyoming information (church records, county records, territorial records) and family genealogies which cover many parts of the country.
The index cards in Series III carry dates of admission from the 1920s through the early 1930s. The names are of infants and small children primarily in the Laramie area, but it is not clear to what the children are being admitted.
Arranged alphabetically by folder title, chronologically within that division. Consists largely of scrapbooks documenting the activities of the organization. Also included is a small amount of correspondence.
Arranged alphabetically by folder title. Contains material collected and contributed by members to assist in genealogical research, including transcripts of county records (primarily Albany County, Wyoming), transcripts of church records (primarily Cheyenne and Laramie, Wyoming), and genealogies of various members’ families.
Manuscripts of Boyer's western novels "The Guns of Morgette" (1982), "Morgette in the Yukon" (1983), "Morgette on the Barbary Coast" (1984), and "Dorn" (1986).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Research files including notes, correspondence, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, transcriptions and maps, chiefly related to the Civil War.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection is chiefly printed materials on early automobiles including pamphlets from over 150 domestic and foreign manufacturers and parts makers, catalogs, books, periodicals, reprints, newspaper and magazine clippings, photographs, correspondence and directories. Also includes some travel guidebooks and postcards and materials on railroads.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence (1940-1969); sheet music; newspaper clippings; 2 scrapbooks; telegrams; royalty receipts; scripts; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Daily record of bank manager's client contacts regarding credit matters covering years 1921-1928, 1930-1934, 1937-1940, 1942-1948, 1950 and 1952.
Contains professional correspondence (1952-1971); subject files regarding his work with "Time" and Time-Life as a graphic designer (1952-1971); and 6 reel-to-reel tapes of a 1970 interview with Hamilton about his work with Time-Life.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection includes correspondence (1963-1971); newsletters and publications of conservative organizations; newspaper clippings; notes; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains letters, telegrams, and a geological report from Gordon Campbell; legal agreements, leases, and other documents; promotional material for the Montana Cycle Oil Company and the Montana-Canadian Oil Company; and reminiscences from Robert S. Anderson about the activities of the men who formed the Montana Cycle Oil Company.
The collection contains a small amount of correspondence and other papers; photocopies of a legal document regarding sale of some land in New York in 1887; a narrative by Spaugh about his discovery of the Spanish Diggings (an ancient Native American quarry site); and photographs of Spaugh (1890-1940 and undated), the OW Ranch and employees (circa 1880s), cattle, and Manville, Wyoming (1907). The oversize box contains magazines and newspapers with articles by or about A.A. Spaugh.
Collection contains business and personal correspondence of Bache and his wife Alice Kay Bache (1920-1968); speeches, news releases and pamphlets related to Bache & Co.; materials related to his military service; minutes, memorandums and reports related to the New York Stock Exchange and several of its internal committees; photographs; uniforms and other artifacts; Bache family papers; awards; and miscellaneous other materials. Correspondents include several prominent politicians and business leaders.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence (1945-1982); subject files on abortion, family planning, sex education, human sexuality and the mentally handicapped, and voluntary sterilization (1939-1981); materials relating to AVS and its predecessor, the Human Betterment Association of America, including budgets, news releases, Board of Directors and Executive Committee meeting minutes and annual reports (1947-1978); newspaper clippings (1956-1978); speeches on sexual rights and sex education for the mentally handicapped (1971-1977); a script of the television special "Alicia's Story" (1978); and 13 audio cassette tapes of meetings from the American Association on Mental Deficiency dealing with sexual rights and sex education for the mentally handicapped (1969-1972).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection consists of a diary kept by Wishart from April to December 1867 narrating his train trip from Washington, Pennsylvania to Fort McPherson, Nebraska and the subsequent march to Fort Phil Kearny. Wishart also describes performing guard duty while timber and hay were being cut and escorting wagon trains to and from Fort Reno, Wyoming, and into Montana. Wishart was escorting a wagon train at the time of the Wagon Box fight in August 1867.
The collection also contains the transcript of a September 1, 1867 letter to his son Marcus W. Wishart on his eighth birthday.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes pictorial crop and construction reports for the Hogback Project (1924-1933) and pictorial reports for the Alamo and Canoncito Navajo areas (1946, 1955-1960).
Collection contains materials related to Cady's work in the Yunnan Province of China, 1919-1920: 11 letters; 2 diaries; a field notebook; a notebook containing copies of the diaries and letter, photographs, postcards, and maps; 43 mounted photographs; negatives; and maps.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains speeches, articles and reports by Armstrong on water resource development, reclamation, and dam construction.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Miscellaneous material (mainly 1945-1970) including correspondence, legal documents and maps related to W. Walter Byron's mining interests near Kokomo, Colorado, with a few items (1902-1905) relating to Ethan E. Byron (relationship with Walter unknown) and his mining interests near Kokomo.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 2 maps of the Overland Stage Route on the Oregon Trail, 2 maps of the State of Wyoming, and 2 maps of Natrona County, Wyoming.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
Frazee's store ledgers contain accounts with wholesalers and Laramie residents.
The collection contains scripts, story outlines, publicity materials and synopses. The scripts include "Divorce Made Easy", "Charley's Aunt", "College Cuties", "Loose Relations", and others. Also included are photographs of actors (including Dorothy Devore) and stills from movies, (including "The Nervous Wreck"). In addition there is a scrapbook of publicity for Betty Compson, a Christie Comedy star.
The collection includes narratives of trips to Mexico, Russia, Europe, Africa, Caribbean Islands, and Venezuela. Also included are scrapbooks, photographs, and photograph albums documenting Connelly's career in the oil industry and his personal life, including his travels and his investiture as a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. The Teapot Dome scandal is covered in photographs and newspaper clippings. There is also information about Harry F. Sinclair and other prominent men in the oil industry. In addition there are records of oil companies that were absorbed into Sinclair Corporation, including Kathleen Oil Company, Numa Oil Company, Lucas Oil Company, Oil Production Company, and Mammoth Oil Company, among others.
Scrapbooks contain newspaper and magazine clippings, correspondence, photographs, and other items.
The Carroll Baker papers contain correspondence (1951-1968); fan mail; memoranda; diaries; financial records; invitations and guestlists; honors and awards of Carroll Baker; and playbills, posters, programs, tickets for premiers, and other promotional material. The collection also contains costumes worn by Carroll Baker and scripts for movies and plays in which she appeared, as well as other scripts. Also included in the collection are magazines, newspaper clippings, and magazine articles which concern Carroll Baker's life and career. There are numerous photographs of Carroll Baker and other prominent individuals from the motion picture industry as well as stills from movies and plays in which she appeared. Also found in the collection are notebooks, biographical material, lists, itineraries, time sheets, maps, membership cards, and other memorabilia.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains two book manuscripts written by William C. Alden (including "Geology of Glacier National Park"), manuscripts of papers written by Alden, and a small amount of correspondence. Collection also contains numerous photographs and photograph negatives (of Alden, his colleagues, and geological sites), nine photograph albums of geological sites (which include numerous images of Glacier National Park, Yellowstone National Park, Montana, Wyoming, and the Midwest), a number of glass lantern slides of Glacier National Park, and reprints of articles written by Alden. Government documents (including a few written by Alden), miscellaneous reprints, miscellaneous periodicals (including a few containing articles written by Alden), and U.S. Geological Survey maps of much of the United States are in this collection as well.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains photographs and other material from a scrapbook about the Pan American Airlines' first transpacific expedition. Most of the photographs were taken by Arthur B. Nolan in 1934-1935.
Collection contains 9 photographs captured by William Henry Jackson of scenery in the Yellowstone National Park and Rocky Mountains.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
The Ethelbert Talbot Papers consist primarily of the personal papers and diaries of Ethelbert Talbot. The diaries record daily activities and the correspondence is, for the most part, private letters from Talbot to his wife and daughter. There are also occasional letters from other family members and a few from Talbot's colleagues regarding church business. There is some correspondence regarding publication of Talbot’s autobiographical books; and there are some short manuscripts and sermons written by Talbot and others. Church records, although not entirely absent, are scattered and incomplete. There are three scrapbooks containing clippings, printed material, and some hand-written documents regarding Ethelbert Talbot, the Talbot family, and various friends and colleagues. Clippings and miscellaneous documents were also found tucked into the diary pockets, and this material had been retained with the diaries. There are also four photograph albums and some loose photographs.
Arranged alphabetically by folder title. Contains sermons and writings by Talbot and others, district and general convocation programs, a small number of church records, and biographical and genealogical information.
Arranged chronologically. Journals of Talbot’s daily activities; also includes some news clippings and miscellaneous inserts.
Arranged chronologically. Journals of Annie Talbot’s travels in Europe.
Arranged chronologically. Primarily private letters from Ethelbert Talbot to his wife and daughter; includes a small amount of church-related and other business correspondence.
Arranged roughly chronologically. Includes albums of Laramie and of Wyoming ranches and camping trips kept by Annie H. Talbot. Also includes loose prints from scrapbooks and diaries.
Arranged roughly chronologically. Primarily news clippings and printed material regarding Ethelbert Talbot. Includes some primary documents on church business.
Certificates, maps, printed material.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Ward W. Husted papers largely contain materials concerning his twenty-year involvement in the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority (NTUA). This portion of the collection includes reports and minutes of the NTUA board of directors and correspondence concerning its actions. Husted also collected material on other Navajo economic developments. Other gas industry related material includes newsletters of the St. Joseph Gas Company from the time Husted was employed there along with miscellaneous reports and articles.
Local history is documented by Husted’s club memberships and by the articles he collected. Husted helped organize the Laramie Booster Club, a division of the Chamber of Commerce. He was also a member of the Jesters, a drama club. Playbills, scripts, and newspaper articles about the performances are included in the collection. Husted supported the University of Wyoming, especially the construction of the Arena Auditorium. Probably due to his participation in the NTUA, Husted collected information about the Navajo tribe. Also of interest to Husted was the Lincoln and Douglas Debate Centennial and Carl Sandburg Celebration in his hometown of Galesburg, Illinois. He saved brochures, newspapers, and correspondence concerning the events.
Some photographs of Husted and the NTUA board are found in the collection. Several artifacts, including honorary medals from the NTUA, press passbooks to the World’s Fair in 1939, a gasoline ration book from World War II, and other Wyoming souvenirs are also included.
Reports, newsletters, correspondence, minutes, and articles relating to the gas industry.
Arranged alphabetically by format. Reports, correspondence, minutes and articles.
Arranged chronologically. Reports concerning practices and procedures in the manufacturing of gas.
Arranged alphabetically by title. Articles, newsletters, and booklets relating to the gas industry.
Arranged alphabetically by subject. Articles, correspondence, pamphlets, brochures, and magazines of historical interest.
Articles, correspondence, and programs.
Newspaper clippings, a book, and leaflets.
Articles, brochures, maps, and a telephone directory.
A telephone directory.
Arranged alphabetically by subject. Articles, correspondence, newspaper clippings, invitations, playbills, a scrapbook, and awards.
Arranged by format. Pictures of Husted and members of the NTUA board.
Arranged alphabetically by format. Press pass, stamp, coin, tie clip, ration book, and deposit bag.
Collection contains manuscripts and articles written by Solheim including "East Asia in Prehistory" (1960-1975); subject files containing correspondence, notes and newsclippings on various anthropological symposiums and projects (1961-1974); correspondence (1945-1978); speeches (1972); maps of southeast Asia; and miscellaneous photographs.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 6 pieces of correspondence; 5 16 mm films of "Esso Repertory Theatre" episodes; newspaper clippings; scripts for the television programs "The Actor's Studio" and "Esso Repertory Theatre" and the play "Summertree"; stills from "Esso Repertory Theatre"; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains a 12 page photocopied reminiscence written by Stuart Baird about his father, John L. Baird, in 1936. John Baird (1855-1942) was born in Wisconsin and moved to Deadwood, South Dakota, in 1887 and established a telephone company in the Black Hills. He moved to Newcastle, Wyoming, in 1884 and established a mercantile business and later was president of the First National Bank of Newcastle. Baird served as a Wyoming State Senator from 1905-1909 and as Wyoming State Treasurer from 1911-1915.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Selig J. Seligman papers contain materials relating to the Hollywood producing career of Selig J. Seligman. The bulk of the collection consists of scripts and production files for television shows and movies that Seligman produced. The majority of these files are from Seligman’s production company, Selmur Productions. Other materials include an audio recording of an interview with Seligman, correspondence, books, newspaper clippings, and testimony to the FCC. Some of the productions covered by the collection include “Charly,” “Alexander the Great,” and “Combat!”
The collection includes correspondence with Ricker Van Metre, president of the Wyoming Tie & Timber Company, and newspaper clippings on Martin Olson, the Tie Hack Memorial near Dubois, Wyoming, and the railroad tie-cutting industry.
Collection contains the manuscript of this author’s novel, “The Man from Nowhere”.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains handwritten scores and arrangements; studio recordings by Simon and others of Simon compositions; appointment books (1966-1969); lyrics; notebooks of handwritten music; a scrapbook (1908-1969); a small amount of correspondence; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains mainly scripts written by Ruskin; 3 scrapbooks with photographs, newspaper clippings and correspondence; and photographs of Ruskin with various celebrities.
The collection consists of a diary written by H. M. Rea while on a cattle drive from Ogallala, Nebraska, to Johnson County, Wyoming, in 1884.
Collection contains materials relating to Sigfrid's legal career, including diaries for 1913, 1917 and 1953; newspaper clippings, 1924-1932; a register of court cases that Sigfrid was involved in, noting actions taken and decisions made by the courts, 1895-1904; legal files regarding ranching, mining, estate settlements, divorce, bankruptcy, oil and gas leases, 1905-1953; and correspondence, 1889-1963, the bulk of which is regarding a dispute between the city of Telluride, Colorado, and the Western Colorado Power Company in 1916.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The A.G. Setter collection includes photographs of the Salt Creek, Poison Spider, and Iron Creek oil fields in Wyoming. There are also photographs of New York Oil Company properties and officers and a letter from Setter concerning a stock purchase dated 1918.
The collection contains two petroleum maps, three miscellaneous pamphlets, and photographs of oil field activity in the Little Buck Creek, Lance Creek, and Kevin-Sunburst oil fields. There is also an exploration memorandum (1956) from the Billings Division of the Montana Oil and Gas Conservation Commission regarding drilling for oil in a geologic formation in Montana, with accompanying handwritten drilling notes.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection consists of Behre Dolbear corporate records: correspondence, marketing plans, flow charts, proposals, and reports. Business files and back up files labeled by topic or by project, some containing primary material, are included. Numerous geologic maps covering areas across the globe are filed alphabetically by country or state. Prospectuses and annual and interim reports from numerous clients are included, as well as bulletins, pamphlets, government publications, reprints, and reports, dealing with mining and mining interests worldwide.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Hugo Butler papers contain screenplays, reviews, and some publicity and production notes for motion pictures authored by Hugo Butler.
The Mildred Stead Capron Papers consist of the 16mm adventure documentary films she made during the 1950s and 1960s. The areas she documented in the United States include Wyoming, Alaska, and the Chesapeake Bay. International sites include Ireland, Brittany in northwest France, Portugal, the islands of Azores and Madeira, Spain, and South Africa. Also included are the film production files. These include scripts, research notes, subject files, photographs and negatives, and advertising for her documentaries. The collection also includes a small amount of biographical material and some of her personal photographs. Most of the photographs relate to Wyoming landscapes and wildlife in the areas of the Snowy Range, the Wind River Range, Jackson Hole, the National Elk Refuge, the Teton Mountains, and wild horse roundups in the Red Desert. Other photographs relate to sheep shearing, a pow wow on the Wind River Indian Reservation, and outdoor recreation scenes.
This series includes biographical material, personal notes, and photographs of Mildred Capron. The material is contained in one folder.
This series contains the production files for Capron’s 16mm films. Included are script notes, technical data, research notes, subject files, advertising and publicity, and photographs and negatives of the sites she visited. The files are arranged alphabetically by title of film.
This series contains photographs taken by Mildred Capron. Most of the photographs are of Wyoming landscapes, wildlife, and outdoor recreation. Some images are of her world travels.
This series contains the full-length feature films produced by Capron. Additionally, film clips, short takes, and audio reel-to-reel tapes used in the making of her films are included. Some audio relates to music on the Wind River Indian Reservation.
The collection contains primarily maps, many by Frank H. Allyn, including Wyoming highway maps (1930-1968), lands of Union Pacific Railroad Co., road logs from the Laramie, Cheyenne and Rawlins areas (1920-1923), Shoshone and other Indian lands, school districts in Wyoming (1910), and maps of the Riverton and Fremont County area including the original plat of Riverton by F.H. Allyn (1906).
Also included are maps of oil fields and copies of historical maps such as the trail from Missouri to Oregon (1846), routes from Ft. Laramie to Great Salt Lake (1858), and Territory of Wyoming (1876). Some biographical and personal material is also included.
Manuscript for this author's novel on the Oklahoma oil industry, "Wildcatters" (1964).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Includes correspondence, financial records, legal documents, and brand certificates concerning ranching, water, property and business interests of the Dixon family. Also includes treasurer's records (1896-1905) and a ledger (1934) for School District #24, Rockdale, and a certificate book and records for the First National Bank of Rock River (1921). Correspondence includes 2 letters from F.E. Warren (1911, 1912).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains a typescript of the diary Daniel Doody maintained during the expedition to Mount Everest in 1963. Also included are two photographs of climbing, one photograph of Daniel Doody, one photograph of the American expedition members, and one photograph of Sherpas at the Doody home in Rolling Hills, Connecticut.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Tex Jordan collection contains photographs and postcards of Jane Bernoudy, Art Acord, Bill Pickett, Tom Mix, Bertha Blancett, Mabel Baker Walker, and other performers in rodeos, wild west shows, and movies. Also included is correspondence with Harry Webb, Sam Henderson, and others. The collection also includes artifacts and printed material connected with the West, rodeo, and the U.S. Cavalry.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 3 manuscripts written by D. B. Newton including Cross Me in Gunsmoke, The Badge Shooters, and The Lurking Gun.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
This collection contains booklets pertaining to Kuwait Oil Company; a 4-page autobiography by Harry R. Hammerle; and other miscellaneous documents related to Gulf Oil Corporation.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains a copy of a letter about the gun that killed J. B. Hickok; a letter to the Academy of Fine Arts in St. Louis, Missouri; a periodical titled Les Cahiers Francais; a photograph of Taxile M. Doat working with porcelain vases; and a white porcelain vase created for the American Woman’s League in 1910.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for 2 boxes.
The collection includes correspondence (1917-1970); lectures, notebooks, and articles on industrial safety; bills and receipts; certificates; minutes and other information on the American Red Cross, Natrona County Chapter (1959-1960, 1965); and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection includes manuscripts of "Our America" columns (1957-1973); transcripts of her "Wake Up, America!" broadcasts (1940-1946); speeches; manuscripts of articles by Alexander; photographs; a scrapbook of her career; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Lucille Nichols Patrick materials include correspondence; files compiled for her history of Cody, Wyoming; manuscripts "The Candy Kid", "The Best Little Town by a Dam Site", and "Caroline Lockhart, Liberated Lady"; research on Cody history, Buffalo Bill Dam on the Shoshone River, and James C. Nichols; prints of thirteen pen and ink drawings of ranch life by Patrick; and research materials and photographs of Wyoming pioneer cemeteries.
The James Calvin Nichols materials include correspondence (1932-1962), much of it with his lawyer, Milward L. Simpson of Cody; legal documents (1903-1949); and reminiscences, mostly concerning hunting trips.
The manuscripts for two non-fiction books, correspondence and miscellaneous materials relating to many of this historian and social critic's works. Photographs of Myers and correspondence with author Theodore Drieser are included.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains this producer's scripts for motion pictures, plays and television programs including many pilot programs and dramas for "Bob Hope Presents the Chrysler Theatre."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence; photographs of Chatterton and the Chatterton family, Theodore Roosevelt’s 1903 visit to Wyoming, and two panoramic photographs of Riverton, Wyoming; materials relating to the operation of the Saratoga Mineral Springs Company; the manuscript for Chatterton’s autobiography Yesterday’s Wyoming; maps and blueprints for water development projects; newspaper clippings, two engraving plates, certificates of election.
Collection contains original musical scores, orchestra arrangements, cue sheets, and timing notes from motion pictures, radio and television programs.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains correspondence, articles, photographs, newspaper clippings, reprints, and certificates related to aviation design, early aviation, and the engineering career of George Jackson Mead. The bulk of the materials date from the 1920s. Also included are two copies of his biography, "Wings Over the World" (1971) written by his wife, Cary Hoge Mead.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence, mostly letters to U.S. Congressional members regarding taxes and anti-communism (1936-1967); newspaper clippings (1921-1929); 6 photograph albums of Ellis and water reclamation projects in North Dakota, Wyoming and Montana (1908-1959); blueprints and drawings of the Shoshone Project, Wyoming (1909-1912) and the Sun River Project, Montana (1913-1915); and a scrapbook with poems written by Ellis (1944-1962).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The manuscript, research notes and related correspondence for the book "Salt Creek, Wyoming: The Story of a Great Oil Field" by this author.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence (1944-1967), mostly congratulatory letters on the Canadian River Dam; photographs and miscellaneous papers on the Canadian River Dam Project (1965); speeches by Crane on dams and the Canadian River Dam Project (1957-1967); articles by Crane on dams (1949); and newspaper clippings (1958-1963).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes biographical materials about William Henry Isom, including a narrative by his son Langley W. Isom and a letter from James R. Murray; genealogical information; and photographs of Isom family members and of the launching of the Sinclair oil tanker “William Isom.”
The collection contains papers documenting Bedinger's career as a pilot, instructor, and administrator. Included are log books, copies of orders, and other materials. Photographs include images of flight school, the West Indies, Alaska, and Amelia Earhart.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains the seals of various Cheyenne businesses.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for 2 boxes.
Research materials, notes, and correspondence related to this economist's 1964 book, "The Measurement of Corporate Sources and Uses of Funds."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains some personal materials but mainly materials relating to Renaldo's acting and his portrayal of the "Cisco Kid" and "Cisco Kid" memorabilia. There is fan mail, personal and general correspondence with some relating to the Screen Writers' and Screen Actors Guilds. There are some legal papers relating to his first divorce and his citizenship. Screenplays for motion pictures including "For Whom the Bell Tolls" are included along with "Cisco Kid" scripts for radio and television.
There is a large amount of "Cisco Kid" publicity materials including promotional kits, posters, memorabilia, and Renaldo personal appearances files containing correspondence, photographs, contracts and newspaper clippings. There are numerous artifacts including costumes and a handcrafted saddle, bridle and breast collar. Also included is a 16mm color film (along with film negative), "Mission to America," a documentary on California Spanish missions Renaldo made in 1941.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence, invoices, receipts, and other materials related to the Hupp Motor Car Company; rules, entry blanks, correspondence and other materials related to automobile races; two photograph albums from his world tour; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection documents the journalistic career of James L. Kilgallen, from 1919-1978. Collection consists mainly of newspaper clippings and transcripts of articles by Kilgallen from 1926-1973. Also included are photographs of Kilgallen and the people he interviewed from 1919-1978 and press passes for 1943-1978.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains mainly scripts of plays along with 15 pieces of correspondence, miscellaneous newspaper clippings, photographs and other miscellaneous materials relating to this actor who was blacklisted from 1951-1965.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
This collection contains correspondence; airplane scale models of World War I De Havilland DH4 and the Galloping Goose Ford; publications by Green and others about aviation; brochures; books; various newsletters; yearbooks; and photographs of early aviators, planes, plane crushes and of Ray J. Green.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains mainly manuscripts of Nye's novels and other written works along with related correspondence, fan mail, research notes, contracts, scrapbooks and miscellaneous materials. There are also letters with other WWA members, photographs and other materials relating to the WWA, its board and the annual Spur awards. In addition there are Nye's articles on quarter horses, subject files and many photographs of horses, owners and jockeys.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
A scrapbook that includes photographs, documents related to Alcorn's military service, clippings related to his career as a newspaper publisher, state auditor, and legislator, and multiple newspaper articles acknowledging his death. Also includes as inserts multiple certificates awarded to Alcorn.
The Edward L. Munson papers contain biographical information, awards and citations, articles by Edward L. Munson, books concerning the military and war, and correspondence (1947-1967). Flags, decorations and other memorabilia are included. The collection contains more than 400 war posters, pen and ink etchings, and other drawings and notebooks. The collection also contains photographs and albums depicting those prominent in the military, as well as friends and family of Edward L. Munson. Motion pictures found in the collection include: "A Star is Born," "Appointment in Tokyo," "General MacArthur," "Here is Germany," "Know Your Allies Britain," "Know Your Enemy Japan," "The Negro Soldier," and "Why We Fight" training films. The collection also contains phonograph records of the Armed Forces Radio Service Basic Musical Library, Yank Swing Lesson, Series H. Programs, and other music. Also included in the collection are general order documents, deeds, programs for award ceremonies, and reports concerning the war department, military, television film, producers reports, 20th Century Fox Film Corporation, television network, and personal reports.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Select posters have been digitized and made available online. For a full listing of all posters please see link to the Container List.
Select posters have been digitized and made available online. For a full listing of all posters please see link to the Container List.
Collection contains correspondence regarding Lynton's work for Standard Oil of California (1911-1958); maps of California and Texas (1906-1952); newspaper clippings (1919-1948); reports by Lynton on oil prospects in northern Africa, Texas and California (1931-1955); miscellaneous geological equipment such as plumb bobs and weights; and magnetometer surveys for Standard Oil of California in California and Texas (1927-1931).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains phonograph recordings of Eddy Duchin and his orchestra issued by Columbia, Brunswick, Victor, and Harmony. In addition there are radio broadcasts from 1935 to 1949, including U.S. Navy programs and the short-lived “Eddy Duchin Show.” Also included are recordings of Eddy Duchin’s solo piano performances. The collection also contains audio tapes made from the disc recordings.
Collection consists of Draper's certificates and two scrapbooks containing photographs, newspaper clippings, letters and cards, and other memorabilia relating to his FPC term.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes one assay report from Chelan County, Washington; 17 sketches of mine shafts and tunnels; a field notebook and a level book for the Coeur dÁlene Mine; one map of Stevens County, Washington; photographs of the Western United States; and miscellaneous materials. The collection includes one assay report from Chelan County, Washington; 17 sketches of mine shafts and tunnels; a field notebook and a level book for the Coeur dÁlene Mine; one map of Stevens County, Washington; photographs of the Western United States; and miscellaneous materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Scripts of plays and movies written by Gunn.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains copy prints made in 1965 of photographs taken mainly in northern Wyoming between 1885 and 1905. Subjects include the towns of Sheridan and Buffalo, Indians (primarily Crow), and a 1902 recreation of the Battle of the Little Bighorn.
Manuscripts of several of this author's Western novels.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains articles on engineering; correspondence (1935-1938); and reports by The Research Service Inc. on construction projects (1925-1933).
Collection contains correspondence (1920-1969); articles, lectures, and sermons; reports and policy statements of various church committees; photographs; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains reel to reel audio tapes of Mimi Benzell's musical performances (including opera performances for the Metropolitan Opera Association, radio performances on "Radio Hour", and miscellaneous stage performances), reel to reel audio tapes of "Luncheon with Mimi", 78 rpm phonograph records of Benzell's musical performances (including opera performances for the Metropolitan Opera Association, radio performances on "Railroad Hour", and miscellaneous stage performances), and a few 33 rpm records of Benzell's musical performances (including "Milk and Honey"). Collection also contains original musical scores used by Benzell (including those for "Milk and Honey" and "A Night on the Town"), Benzell's radio show scripts (including those for "Railroad Hour" and "The Pet Milk Show"), a few 8 mm home movies (of Benzell, her family, and her travels), and a few 16 mm movies (of various Benzell performances), and reel to reel videotapes of Benzell's 1963 appearance on the "Mike Douglas Show". Collection also holds photographs and photograph negatives (of Benzell, her family, and show business colleagues), several scrapbooks created by Benzell, and a small amount of personal correspondence. A large amount of printed sheet music, clippings, programs and broadsides for Benzell performances, press releases, and miscellaneous printed materials are in this collection as well.
Collection contains personal and business materials relating to Burton's mining interests including records of some of the mining companies which were involved. Personal materials include letters to his wife, Lucretia D.; diaries (1885, 1890 photocopy, 1890-1891, 1904, 1907 transcript) concerning crystal mining in California and trips to Alaska, Siberia, Mexico and Cuba; and a few materials relating to his Lincolniana collection.
Burton's business materials include correspondence including a letterbook, ledgers, reports, a scrapbook of 1890s newspaper clippings on silver and gold, maps of the Gogebic Range and glass plate negatives of the Cisco Mine in the Gogebic Range. There are a minute book, a journal and a ledger of the Star Tunnel and Mining Company, which conducted mining in the Gogebic Range. There are also a letterbook and minutes of the Madonna Mining and Development Company (later Monarch Madonna Mining Company) and the Old Sea Level Gold Mining and Dredging Company; minutes of the United States Alaskan Tin Mining Company; and an account book of the Tontine Iron Mining Company. The collection also includes letters (1853-1889) apparently collected by Burton from miners at gold camps at Railroad Flat in California, mainly concerning Phyletus Lewis and his family.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Roland W. Brown papers contain biographical materials about Roland W. Brown and family (1919 – 1979), photographs, histories, and promotional materials about Jackson, Wyoming (1919 – 1967), newspaper articles about and histories of Teton Valley (1970 – 1980), tourism brochures and newspaper articles about Wyoming towns and scenic areas (1919 – 1972), and University of Wyoming Summer School bulletins, programs, photographs and other materials (1919 – 1920).
Manuscripts for two of this author's works.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains biographical information on Henry Beckett and the Beckett family; clippings of newspaper stories by Henry Beckett; professional and personal correspondence; photographs; poems and short stories by Beckett; and research on composers Hall Johnson and Toscanini and humanist Albert Schweitzer.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
This collection encompasses T. Blake Kennedy’s life from 1892 until his death, May 1957. It includes his memoirs, personal and professional correspondence, court assignments, speeches and written works on a variety of subjects, and scrapbooks of newspaper articles concerning cases, social engagements, and politics. His views about politics, current events, special cases he represented as an attorney and or presided over within the judicial system, as well as his personal/social and political life are included within his memoirs. Individuals mentioned include local and national political leaders, leading Wyoming citizens, and other judges and attorneys and clients. Cases included Tom Horn, Teapot Dome, Heart Mountain WWII induction resisters. Papers and addresses include speeches made to his various civic, political, and professional organizations, eulogies, and written works concerning issues of the day. His scrapbooks consist of newspaper articles regarding his everyday as well as his most celebrated cases. Other cases of special interest include Mormon polygamy as Mann Act Violations, prostitution and prohibition (Volstead Act), crimes and issues on the Wind River Indian Reservation and other federal lands, constitutional rights issues, and juvenile legal issues.
Collection contains one manuscript for a novel written by Ashabranner titled Cimarron Territory.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
The Lyn Murray papers contain hand-written musical scores and audiotapes conducted and arranged by Lyn Murray for the stage, radio, television, and motion pictures from 1941-1987. In addition, the papers also include correspondence, contracts, production files, and photographs. Finally, there are various drafts of his personal journals, that he kept from 1947-1983, that were eventually published under the name “Musician: A Hollywood Journal of Wives, Women, Writers, Lawyers, Directors, Producers and Music.”
The collection contains two cookbooks of Amelia Kent's handwritten recipes created and used while the family lived in Cheyenne, Wyoming (1867-1893); artifacts such as two quirts, a sword, leather belt, and U.S. flag with 45 stars; and legal documents regarding T.A. and Amelia Kent's immigration, marriage, and land purchases in Cheyenne, Wyoming.
The collection contains photographs of the Fee and Murphy families, their friends, and various places and events in and around the town of Laramie; business records, primarily of Michael H. Murphy’s saloon and other enterprises; and a small amount of personal material reflecting social life in Laramie or family concerns.
Collection contains one piece of sheet music and 17 sheets of handwritten drafts of lyrics for the theme song entitled "It's just a game, love" of the 1968 motion picture, "The Split," by this composer and lyricist.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 2 scrapbooks, manuscripts, and correspondence relating to this fiction author's works.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
This collection contains correspondence; newspaper and magazine articles by or concerning B.H. Gerwin, copper mining and air pollution; mining publications and reports; industry statistics; subject files concerning copper, the Kennecott Mines, refinery studies, duty and anti-trust; annual reports of Chino Copper Company, Kennecott Copper Corporation, Nevada Consolidated Copper Company, Ray Consolidated Copper Company and Utah Copper Company; and scrapbooks concerning mining companies and mining history.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
This collection contains music scores, notes, research materials, scripts, vinyl recordings, songbooks and related materials for six motion pictures, including The Jungle Book, Winnie the Pooh, and Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.
Collection contains manuscripts, drafts and synopses of Wayne C. Lee's western novels and printed copies of his books and plays.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains materials relating to the Richardson family from 1886-1945 including an account book (1886-1918); a journal of labor and ranch expenses (1891-1925); a register of livestock sold (1890-1921); and photographs of the Richardson family and ranch, and of the Carbon County, Wyoming area.
The collection also includes six manuscripts of reminiscences written by Willing G. Richardson around 1945 about Carbon County, William and Mary Jane Richardson, the Richardson family and ranch, and a local fur trapper known as "Old Tough."
The collection also contains 15 glass plate negatives of the Richardson Ranch, Elk Mountain, Edward L. Richardson, ranching activities of the Basin Land and Cattle Company and the University of Wyoming Mechanical Building from 1898-1902.
Rod Williams; George Doane; etc. Showing rocks laid by Indians to convey information George Littlefield herd Includes Laramie Furniture Company after fire Medicine Bow Station; Beer Mug Ranch William Richardson; Mary Jane Richardson and sons Mail carrier Fisher; Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Kortes and Lester Hunt; sheep by Elk Mountain; Conness bull; tie drive on Medicine Bow River; team and wagon by buttes Collection contains the manuscript of this author’s novel, “Midnight Creek“.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 2 items on Brisbin family genealogy; an 1868 letter from Brisbin to his wife Jane near Fort McPherson, Nebraska; an 1877 letter to Jane near the Yellowstone River in eastern Montana; a photocopy of his military record; and an 1892 obituary. Transcripts are available for Brisbin's letters of 1868 and 1877, and the genealogy materials.
Manuscripts of this author's western historical books, "Badmen of the Frontier Days" (1957) and "Quantrill and his Civil War Guerrillas" (1959).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains the manuscript of this author’s novel, “My brother the gunman”.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The bulk of the Larry C. Bradley Jesse James Film collection contains items relating to Henry King's 1939 film "Jesse James" as well as other aspects of Henry King's career. These materials include promotional materials, periodicals, photographs, films, and TV special scripts.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection consists of material relating to the films "The Sound of Music," "Star" and "West Side Story" including various drafts of scripts, film stills, correspondence, notes and music scores with the complete conductor's score for "The Sound of Music" and "West Side Story." There are also photocopies of five letters (1955-1959) to Chaplin from composer Cole Porter.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The bulk of the Knowlton family papers consist of the personal and professional papers of Daniel Knowlton, Jr. These papers include his legal work in Colorado Springs, Colorado (1910-1917), his work as chief counsel of the Interstate Commerce Commission (1928-1952), correspondence, writings, and his World War I era military manuals. Other materials included in the collection are the college diaries of Daniel Knowlton, Sr., (with entries on the Civil War and the assassination of Abraham Lincoln), and family photographs and genealogical information.
The William T. Coleman collection contain various photographs documenting different phases of the Shoshone Dam Project (1907-1910), later renamed the Buffalo Bill Dam.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes 3 letters, an article by Lewis, biographical material on Lewis, 2 photos of the Old Main building at the University of Wyoming, a picture of the Methodist Church in Laramie, and clippings regarding Lewis' death.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains a typed and extensively edited manuscript of Place's history of the Yellowstone River, "Buckskins and Buffalo : the story of the Yellowstone River."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Mainly scripts for television programs written by this television writer along with related photographs and miscellaneous materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Rockwell Hereford papers contain the manuscripts, photographs, illustrations, and extensive research materials for a pamphlet series on the history of western industry entitled, 100 Years West of the Hundredth Meridian (or 100 Years West of 100º). The series was planned to commemorate 100 years of experience in the fabrication of iron and steel products for all industries of the West.
The research files include notes and anecdotes taken from a variety of secondary sources. (Note that 19th century research materials and illustrations are reproductions, or notes taken from books with 19th century copyright dates.) Topics researched include the history of the West, mining, transportation, communication, lumber and pulp, agriculture, petroleum and natural gas, iron and steel, water resources, food processing, chemicals, fabricated metals, machinery, construction, the economy of the West, and an overview of U.S. Steel’s contribution to western industry. A large number of photographs and illustrations accompany each of these topics, including a set of postcards depicting paintings of the Pittsburgh & Lake Erie Railroad and the industries it served by railroad artist Howard Fogg.
There is also a complete set of Columbia-Geneva Steel Division’s employee publication U.S.S. Westerners, November 1956-December 1963, with an index to all volumes.
The biographical file contains a typewritten portrait of Adeline Lucina Rockwell Hereford, Rockwell Hereford’s mother. The information, recorded by Rockwell’s wife, Marda, was provided by several close friends of Adeline.
Collection contains this botanist's manuscript, “A Chapter of the Botanical History of Southwestern Wyoming and Adjacent Regions”.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Truman H. Kuhn collection includes biographical material, administrative files (mostly foreign projects), geology articles, books, clippings, correspondence, maps, notes (academic), mining reports, speeches, Colorado School of Mines subject files, and five geology books.
The material traces the academic and professional career of Kuhn from the days when he was an Engineer Geologist for the Los Angeles County Flood Control District in the late 1930s to until after his retirement from the Colorado School of Mines in the 1970s. His administrative files contain material related to his work as a consultant to Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Indonesia in helping them to establish colleges of mining and petroleum. The articles, books, maps, reports, and speeches reflect that he was an active geologist who wrote manuscripts and made speech/presentations related to geological matters. His notes, subject files, and geology books reflect his work as a student and academician at the University of Arizona and the Colorado School of Mines.
Focusing on employment and honors. Arranged alphabetically by type.
Projects arranged alphabetically.
Publications written by Kuhn. Arranged alphabetically by publisher and topic.
Arranged by date.
Arranged alphabetically by area.
Arranged alphabetically.
Portraits and snapshots of Kuhn and his wife.
Written by Kuhn. Arranged alphabetically.
Written by Kuhn. Arranged alphabetically by title.
Arranged alphabetically.
Arranged alphabetically.
Collection contains scores composed by Cole for musicals, orchestras, samba and other Latin American arrangements.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains Miller's reminiscences of his work in Wyoming in the 1920s, a small amount of correspondence, printed reports by Miller and others on Michigan petroleum, and maps.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Personal letters to Isabelle (Belle) Cobb in Kankakee, IL from her husband written while he was traveling in Europe from November 1865 to April 1866.
Collection contains a Victor Conifer mousetrap.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
The collection contains correspondence, reports, maps, and business records of the Seventynine Oil Company and the West Dome Oil Company. Both companies were engaged in developing oil properties under the management of J.H. Rowe.
Collection contains mainly scripts of motion pictures written by Root, including "Golden Fleecing," "Lady Luck," and "The Sky Is the Limit"; the scripts for 14 unproduced movies; 3 scrapbooks with programs, reviews, film stills and articles on Root's career (1934-1945); miscellaneous theater programs; miscellaneous materials relating to his work in television; and contracts and correspondence for the theatrical productions "Cabin in the Sky" and "The Milky Way" (1934-1966).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains digitized maps of Union Pacific Coal Company mines near Rock Springs and elsewhere in Wyoming. Also included are some photographs and business records.
Collection contains personal and professional correspondence (1931-1970); subject files on stories covered by Calhoun in Ecuador, Guatemala, Nicaragua and on the Pan-American Highway, the Panama Canal Zone and Charles Lindbergh (1931-1970); maps of Central and South America; 8 scrapbooks (1934-1947); and photographs of Charles Lindbergh, Albert Einstein, President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Calhoun, and the Panama Canal (1931-1947). Some of the materials are in Spanish.
The J.B. Stoutamore papers include blueprints of the Pathfinder Dam, legal documents relating to the sale of land covered by the Pathfinder Dam and Reservoir; Bureau of Reclamation memoranda and correspondence on employee inventions and conduct (1940-1947); correspondence and tables on precipitation and water levels at the dam; a newspaper clipping about I.J. Matthews, district engineer for the North Platte Project (1946); and drawings and models for the electric water gauge invented by Stoutamore.
Collection contains handwritten and typewritten manuscripts, galley proofs, sketches and illustrations of several books and plays; original lithographs, wood-cut prints, linoleum block prints and zinc cuts; books and articles by and about Lenski or containing materials by her; a photograph album; publishers' promotional materials; bookplates and bookmarks designed and illustrated by Lenski; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains 5 pieces of correspondence (1911-1913, 1967); transcript of an interview with Gene Gressley in 1957; biographical materials (1922, 1974); 9 photographs of Clymer (1913, 1953-1962); materials relating to his work as a lay reader for St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Casper (1941-1943); miscellaneous materials relating to the Rocky Mountain Petroleum Pioneers (1953-1962); materials relating to submitting a fictionalized story of the oil industry in Casper to "The Inland Oil Index" (1939); and miscellaneous other materials.
Collection contains the manuscript for "Vedauwoo: Earth-Born," an autobiography of Harold Gilbert which was edited by Hila Gilbert; and 1 audiocassette tape of an interview with Hila concerning the editing of "Vedauwoo".
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
This collection contains materials pertaining to the Tom Horn trial including correspondence; legal documents; newspaper clippings; notes concerning the Tom Horn trial; and other miscellaneous notes.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection consists of research notes, photographs, and manuscripts from two young adult histories by Phillip Ault: "Wires West," a history of the transcontinental telegraph, and "All Aboard," a history of passenger trains.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The bulk of this collection consists of photographs and stereo slides of the University of Wyoming, Rocky Mountain railroads, and early Laramie, Wyoming (1870-1910). There is also an autograph book, the personal scrapbook of the Tyvold family, Ole Thompson's 1873 naturalization papers, and miscellaneous materials on Wyoming citizenship. Also included is an Edison phonograph player with sound horn.
Collection contains photographs of William M. Magruder and the aircraft he worked on and test piloted, including the North American F-86, Boeing B-52, Douglas DC-8, Lockheed L-1011, and mockups of Lockheed's and Boeing's SST projects. Collection also contains four photograph albums assembled by Magruder (which concern his work for the U.S. Air Force, Lockheed Corporation, and the U.S. Department of Transportation's SST project) and slides from presentations given by Magruder (concerning the designs of the Douglas DC-8, Lockheed L-1011, and SST). Collection also contains twenty-one 16 mm films and three 8 mm films concerning aircraft Magruder helped develop and test flew, including the Douglas DC-8, Lockheed L-1011, and the Lockheed SST. Three U.S. Air Force flight test reports written by Magruder, a copy of Magruder's 1975 testimony at the U.S. Department of Transportation's Concorde SST hearings, and a few artifacts are in this collection as well.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Manuscript written by this Laramie, Wyoming resident on the history of Laramie and Albany County, Wyoming.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection is chiefly files related to Dougherty's mine examination work in the western U.S. for the Bureau of Mines and the Securities and Exchange Commission. There is a small amount of material related to his work for private companies and clients.
Arranged alphabetically by mine or company name. Includes Arizona, southern California, Nevada. Arranged alphabetically by mine or company name. Includes northern California, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington. Collection contains materials mainly relating to Throssel's photographic work of the Crow and Northern Cheyenne Indians from 1902-1933. Collection includes 2,481 photographs, glass plate negatives and lantern slides of daily life, ceremonies, portraits and village scenes of the Crow and Northern Cheyenne; what is now the Little Bighorn National Monument; daily life of Billings; Throssel and his family; ranching; and scenery of southern Montana and northern Wyoming (1902-ca. 1920s).
Collection also includes 12 pieces of correspondence with Throssel and of his family (1915-1916, 1928, 1954-1960); manuscripts and speeches by Throssel on Indian culture; newspaper clippings, pamphlets and other printed materials on Throssel and his photography (1900-1963, 1993); 25 paintings by Throssel of outdoor scenes and Crow Indians (1904-1933); and 1 powder horn.
Most of the 2,481 images in this series are contained in both pictures and negatives. Subjects of the images are mainly Native Americans and outdoor scenes from the early 1900s.
This series contains colored lantern slides of select Throssel images. Click here to view digitized copies. Includes printed material, correspondence, speeches and miscellaneous items.
Collection contains 3 pieces of genealogical material on the Kingman family (ca. 1870s); and transcripts of 16 letters by Kingman to his son John C. Kingman (1863, 1869-1877). These letters include one sent from outside of New Orleans during John W. Kingman's service in the Civil War; 2 letters from South Pass City, Wyoming while serving on the Supreme Court; and 13 letters from Laramie and Cheyenne discussing sheep ranching, court cases, his law practice, the gold rush in the Black Hills, John C. Kingman's attendance at Dartmouth, and John W. Kingman's silver mining holdings in Juab County, Utah.
Collection contains some of the “Merci” train gifts including chinaware, vases, carvings, bottles, buckles and studs worn by knights, ink stands, crockery, pictures and etchings, tapestries, and magazines.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
The collection contains correspondence files, reports on oilfields by Beeby-Thompson, legal agreements, and notes on geology. Also included are two diaries from 1929 covering Kenya and the Sudan; an autobiographical manuscript; and several manuscripts of experiences in Russia, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Rumania. In addition there are photographs, maps, logs, charts, and blueprints.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Rocky Mountain Fuel Company collection contains maps and blueprints of mines in Colorado. Also included are a set of index cards describing the maps. In addition there are mine profiles, drill logs from properties in Oklahoma, bonds, annual reports from the 1970s, and press clippings about the Rocky Mountain Fuel Company and Gerald R. Armstrong.
Collection contains two minute books, (1926-1944), a ledger (1920-1938); a membership journal (1926-1942); and miscellaneous correspondence (1942-1943).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes manuscripts of articles; a galley proof of a book, "Dusty Corrals"; photographs; negatives; awards; a 45 rpm phonograph record by Mockel of some of her poems; five pieces of correspondence; and miscellaneous materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains professional correspondence (1946-1969); photographs of Fiske; 6 scrapbooks; speeches on international trade; and subject files relating to the U.S. Trade and Industrial Development Mission to Ireland and his work as editor of "Export Trade and Shipper" (1950-1968).
Collection contains materials collected by Morrison for his research on emigrant trails and grave sites in the Western United States. Included are transcripts of diaries and narratives of emigrants, photographs of gravesites, research materials, and secondary sources.
By or about western emigrants, including autobiographies, family histories, letters, transcripts from books and journals; typescripts unless otherwise noted By or about western emigrants, including autobiographies, family histories, letters, transcripts from books and journals; typescripts unless otherwise noted By or about western emigrants, including autobiographies, family histories, letters, transcripts from books and journals; typescripts unless otherwise noted By W.W. Morrison, written for classes, as letters, for newspaper publication, or as speeches Includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, transcripts from published sources, etc. Includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, transcripts from published sources, etc. Includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, transcripts from published sources, etc. Includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, transcripts from published sources, etc. Includes correspondence, newspaper clippings, transcripts from published sources, etc. Transcripts from books and other published sources Transcripts from books and other published sources Of magazine articles, newspapers, pamphlets, books; not relating to western history(includes article by W.W. Morrison on Ada Magill)
Vol. 5: Forts and Artillery
Vol. 7: Prisons and Hospitals
Vol. 8: Soldier Life, Secret Service
Vol. 9: Poetry and Eloquence
Vol. 10: Armies and Leaders
The collection contains seven albums covering mine inspections in Colorado, Montana, Wyoming, Oregon, Washington, Arizona, Idaho, Nevada, and California; in British Columbia, Canada; and in Sonora, Chihuahua, Durango, Hidalgo, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Sinaloa, Oaxaca, Zacatecas, and Guadalajara, Mexico. The scenes include mine and mill sites, miners, and adjacent towns. There are also photographs of a European tour in 1907 including the Netherlands, France, Germany, and Italy; and of Yellowstone Park in 1908. A small number of family photographs are also included.
Telluride, CO; Japan Mine; Humboldt Mine; Sonora; La Plata, CO; Denver Bucking contest; La Elvira Copper Mine; Kendall, MT; Barnes King Mines; Burnt River Mines, Durkee, OR; Minas Prietas and La Colorada Mine, Sonora; Creston Mine; Catoctin Mine, Prescott, AZ; Bagdad Mine, CA; Chihuahua; Sinaloa; Mazatlan during bubonic plague epidemic; Yaqui Indians; Rosario San Miguel County, CO; La Cananea Mine, Sonora; Puertacitos Mine; Chihuahua; Rosario, Sinaloa; Santa Rosalia, Baja California; Minas Prietas; Helena, MT; Butte, MT; Fred G. Farish; Los Angeles; Victor, CO; Mexico City; Mina Grande, Guerrero; Calabacillas Mine, Sinaloa; Hailey, ID; Dolores Mine, Chihuahua; Cabrestante Mine; Pachuca, Hidalgo; Guanajuato Pachuca, Hidalgo; Santa Gertrudis Mine; Hacienda de Guadalupe; Guanajuato; Garibaldi Mine, Guanacevi, Durango; Silverton, CO, avalanche; Rotterdam; Amsterdam; Markden, Holland; Cologne; Bonn and the Rhine River; Genoa; Naples; Milan Paris; Ely, NV; Guanacevi; Kendall and Giltedge, MT; Yellowstone Park; Spokane, WA; Meadow Creek, ID; Berlin, WA; Seattle; Inyo and Amador Counties, CA; Farish Family; Red Pine Mine, Sheridan, MT Campo Morado; Guadalajara; Sonora; Idaho; Humboldt, AZ; Blue Belle Mine; Oaxaca; Tybo and Reveille, NV; Silver Rule Mine; Tecopa, NV; Trinchera Mine, San Luis, CO; Humboldt Mine, CO; Copper Prince Mine, Sundance, WY; Kokomo, CO; Boulder, CO; Sheep Creek, B.C.; Denver and flood damage of 1912; Black Bear Mine snowslide Humboldt Mine; Fred G. Farish; Smuggler Union Mine; Mineral Hill, AZ; Mill City, NV; Buffalo Hunter Mines, Silver Cliff, CO; Valdor and Globe Mine, Trinity County, CA; Idaho Maryland Mines; Pandora Mine; Virginia City, NV; Imperial and Yellow Jacket Mines; Comstock; Lewiston Dredge; Homestead, OR Batopilas; Guanacevi; Coyachie; Gov. A.R. Shepherd; Turahumare Indians; San Miguel Mine; El Promontorio Mine; Durango; Sinaloa The Episcopal Church of Wyoming collection contains the general office records of the church from 1909-2002. General office records (found in Series I through VII) largely contain correspondence documenting finances, individual churches, schools, hospitals, convocations, conventions, Board of Trustees, committees, councils, clergy, staff, and congregation. The collection also has publications, photographs, remarriage and personnel records (restriction applies), and records of the Standing Committee (restriction applies). This collection documents many aspects of the Episcopal Church in Wyoming, including the Cathedral Home for Children in Laramie, WY; Episcopal Church Women; missionary work on Wyoming Indian reservations; the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society; and KFBU Radio Station.
Records within this series consist almost entirely of correspondence to or from Bishop Thomas covering the general administration and management of the Diocese of Wyoming. See sub-series descriptions for more detailed information. All dates are approximate.
This sub-series contains correspondence arranged mostly alphabetically. Correspondence can also be found in sub-series 2 and 3 with the general office records. Materials in this sub-series were originally part of an earlier accretion.
Consists almost entirely of correspondence with clergy and other personnel and covering a range of topics. There is also some printed material. Materials in this sub-series were originally part of an earlier accretion.
Contains mostly correspondence with clergy and other personnel on topics such as contributions, financial transactions, convocations, staffing decisions, special projects and events, Sons of the Revolution, committees, and the general administration and management of the Diocese of Wyoming. Also includes correspondence and financial data on individual churches in Wyoming. All dates are approximate.
This series consists of correspondence primarily to and from Bishop Schmuck with clergy and other church personnel covering the general administration and management of the Diocese of Wyoming. Topics include finances, properties, special projects, councils, churches, Cathedral Home, Board of Trustees, and many other topics.
This series consists of correspondence primarily to or from Bishop Ziegler with clergy and other church personnel covering the general administration and management of the Diocese of Wyoming. Topics include, but are not limited to, finances, clergy, individual churches, Cathedral Home, National Council, publications, convocations, trustees, and Bishop Randall Hospital.
This series consists of correspondence primarily to or from Bishop Hunter with clergy and other church personnel covering the general administration and management of the Diocese of Wyoming. Topics include, but are not limited to, finances, clergy, individual churches, Cathedral Home, and National Council.
Some folders in this series are RESTRICTED, see restriction note for Class B Restricted Records (above) for details. RESTRICTED FOLDERS ARE MARKED WITH A BLACK STICKER. Restricted folders have the most recent date of material within the folder noted on them.
This series contains a set of office files spanning the terms of three bishops. Topics include the Board of Trustees, Convention of the Diocese; Diocesan and Executive Councils; and Indian Work. Files in this series may contain correspondence, notes, plans, accounting records, speeches, and other types of materials. Also included are the reading files of Bishop Thornberry, unrestricted.
RESTRICTED: As of September 2010, all materials in this series are restricted. See restriction note for Class B Restricted Records (above) for details. Because of the restriction, this series is not arranged in any particular order. Approximate date range given for each box so that researchers can better access some materials as the restriction is lifted. Reading files contain correspondence.
RESTRICTED: As of September 2010, all materials in this series are restricted. See restriction note for Class B Records (above) for details.
This series contains office files spanning the terms of Bishops Jones and Caldwell.
Folders with materials dating after 1977 are RESTRICTED. See restriction note for Class B Restricted Records (above) for details. RESTRICTED FOLDERS ARE MARKED WITH A BLACK STICKER. This series contains material that was not originally arranged with the Bishops' General Office Files and sets of records that span across several Bishops. It includes information on groups and committees within the Church, schools and hospitals run by the Church, events, historical and informational accounts, confirmations and baptisms, and the KFBU Radio Station. Materials include registers, policies, printed information, scrapbooks, correspondence, financial records, and a variety of other materials. The Episcopal Church Women material contains audio tapes. Many of the topics in this series can also be found in the Bishops' General Office Records.
This series contains correspondence and other information about individual churches in Wyoming. Churches are arranged by town/city. Similar materials can also be found in the Bishops' office files series.
Contains newsletters and other publications covering activities, news, information, and meetings of the Episcopal Church of Wyoming. Includes individual written histories of some churches in Wyoming. There are also pamphlets and other publications from the national level.
Contains photographs, negatives, slides, and videocassettes of clergy, church activities, churches and towns, unidentified individuals, ranches, and schools. Also includes transparencies of a presentation on growing the membership.
RESTRICTED- Materials in this series are restricted for 70 years from their creation date. See restriction note for Class A Restricted Records (above) for details. Box #181 is unrestricted. Includes meeting minutes and correspondence.
RESTRICTED- Materials in this series are restricted for 70 years from their creation date. See restriction note for Class A Restricted Records (above) for details. Contains correspondence from divorced people requesting remarriage. Files dated after 1969 filed alphabetically by divorcee's last name.
RESTRICTED- Materials in this series are restricted for 70 years from their creation date. See restriction note for Class A Records (above) for details.
The collection contains muster rolls, returns, and other records of Company D (1862-1866), a photograph of Peter W. Van Winkle (circa 1860s), and a brief biography of the Van Winkle family by Nellie W. Baum (circa 1951). The artifacts comprise a sash, insignia, and an epaulette box of Capt. Van Winkle’s and a primitive-style drawing of Fort Laramie during the time that the Van Winkle family lived there. Also included with the collection are a funeral notice for Caspar Collins (1866) and copies of articles by C. O. Collins about his experiences with the 11th Ohio Volunteer Cavalry (1917).
Collection contains scripts with story outlines and revisions for three episodes of the television program "The Partridge Family" which was produced by Rosen.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence (1928-1961), chiefly regarding the U.S. Conference of Mayors; books and articles by Betters; 4 scrapbooks of newspaper clippings; minutes; reports; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Manuscript of the Western novel "Chant of the Hawk" by joint authors John Harris and Margaret Harris.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains programs of plays that Dempster appeared in, and a program and a script with autographs and inscriptions of the cast and crew for "My Fair Lady."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains a handwritten and typescript copy of Howes' unpublished autobiography "Montana: The Reminiscences of Levi S. Howes" (ca. 1927); a certificate of Howes' membership in the National Cowboy Hall of Fame; newspaper clippings; 2 1929 letters from noted western artist and family friend Elling William "Bill" Gollings to Levi's daughter Dorothy Howes Stevens; photographs of the ranch, Howes and his family, and of a visit to the ranch by Bill Gollings and Will Rogers (1897-1967); and a collection of 78 rpm phonograph records of popular music. All of the manuscript materials are photocopies.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains materials relating to Fitch's mining career including correspondence (1894-1937); articles of incorporation, deeds, contracts, leases, reports, and memorandums for the CCMC and its mining operations; maps of the Eureka and Tintic Mining Districts in Juab County; and photographs of Eureka, mining operations and the Fitch family.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 61 boxes of correspondence (1943-1989) with colleagues on his research interests and teaching; lectures and class notes on physics and geology; publications and reprints; extensive research notes and subject files; glass negatives; maps & charts; and miscellaneous artifacts.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence, reports, newspaper clippings, maps, blueprints, photographs, and news releases on a variety of issues pertinent to the Medicine Bow National Forest including the installment of telephone lines, fire control, general administrative affairs, place names of land within the MBNF, grazing, mineral and timber rights within the MBNF, watersheds, wildlife management, and recreational activities. Collection also contains biographical information on Forest Service employees who were employed at the MBNF (1912-1958) and biographical information on early residents of Albany and Carbon counties and Laramie, Wyoming (1921- 1952). There are also maps of the MBNF; newspapers clippings; and photographs of ranger districts, campgrounds, timber cutting and Forest Service employees.
Contains short biographical accounts, newspaper articles, and correspondence documenting MBNF personnel. Some folders contain a photograph. Contains information in the form of newspaper articles, correspondence, and written accounts on people associated with the MBNF, such as residents and land owners, relatives, and people who worked in the MBNF.
Contains lists and directories of MBNF employees as well as information on personnel and people associated with the MBNF.
Contains reports, correspondence, memoranda, news clippings and news releases on a variety of issues, topics, and locations of MBNF. Information on financials, personnel, and other administrative operations can also be found in this series. There are also maps, a field journal, and a run of the MBNF's weekly newsletter (1975-1978).
Contains letters and memos to and from MBNF personnel on a variety of topics including homesteading, fires, recreation, and general administrative operations.
Primarily contains newspaper clippings about MBNF issues and activities, but also includes MBNF publications such as pamphlets.
This set of photographs is organized by a hierarchical filing structure created by the MBNF. It contains hundreds of photographs and negatives of the MBNF, including people and personnel; lumber and timber operations; recreational activities such as skiing, picnicking and fishing; plants and animals; and forest fire damage, equipment, and prevention.
Contains photographs and negatives of plants, animals, operations, and the MBNF landscape. Images are similar and may even be duplicates of photographs found in sub-series 1, but they were organized according to one subject and arranged alphabetically.
Contains a photo album and miscellaneous photographs.
Collection contains correspondence regarding water resources in Virginia (1966-1973) and miscellaneous articles by Lombardi on groundwater and water conservation in Virginia (1973).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The B.G. Stevenson collection contains photographs, newspaper clippings, and correspondence regarding the Sunburst Oil & Gas Company and its successor the Sunburst Oil & Refining Company; the Kevin Sunburst oil field; road oiling operations in Great Falls, Montana; and other information on oil development in Montana.
This author's manuscripts of Western short stories along with related correspondence.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains subject files and contents from five binders of correspondence, memoranda, legal opinions, reports, press releases, and printed materials related to Cox's work with the Department of Justice.
Materials relate mainly to Arthur Grahame Ridley and his business interests, with some materials relating to the Ridley and Leechman families. Arthur Ridley materials contain blueprints; papers relating to the California Walnut Growers Association regarding plant construction; correspondence with the California Walnut Growers Association, and California and Hawaiian Sugar Refining Corporation; and letters sent to Margery while in Ireland (1917-1971).
Arthur Ridley materials also include miscellaneous materials of the Speed Carburetor Company (1912-1914); maps of California (1957-1964); newspaper clippings (1920-1967); 5 photograph albums; photographs and negatives of Arthur and Margery, construction of buildings and walnut processing (1929-1936, 1956); licenses and patents to manufacture carburetors, clutches and drying apparatuses (1923-1928); Margery's diaries (1938, 1942-1958); and a reminiscence of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.
Leechman family materials include records relating to John Leechman's interests in the Soulsby Mining Company, the Hamilfield Mining Company and the Antill Patent Window Company; a 1915 letter regarding the death of the son of John Leechman, a World War I British soldier.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains information related to the United States Bureau of Reclamation policies and projects from the 1940s to the 1980s. There are extensive files on land classification, irrigation suitability, tropical agriculture, salinity, rice growing, and water resources. Additional files pertain to World Bank including correspondence and field reports. There are also personal and biographical files about William B. Peters.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The National Cattlemen’s Association Records contain the business files, correspondence, financial records, photographs, and publications documenting the activities and history of the organization. Series I concerns the activities of the Board of Directors. Series II contains the files of individual NCA executives. Series III contains department files and Series IV documents the activities of the NCA’s permanent and special committees. Series V consists of files regarding member associations.
Series VI, the largest series of the collection, contains the subject files, which concern issues, people, and organizations of interest to the NCA. Series VII consists of materials regarding the NCA’s annual conventions and mid-year meetings. Series VIII documents legal matters involving the NCA and Series IX contains financial files. Series X and XI consist of administrative files and general correspondence respectively. Series XII contains copies of mimeographed documents produced by the organization.
Series XIII consists of photographic materials, including photographs, slides, transparencies, and negatives. Series XIV contains publications produced by the NCA, including books, periodicals, and newsletters and also contains the files documenting their production and publication. Series XV consists of miscellaneous materials, including clippings, press releases, reports, and statements. Series XVI holds the audio-visual materials, which consist of audio recordings and motion pictures. Series XVII contains the oversized materials, which includes of scrapbooks and financial ledgers.
This series documents the activities of Board of Directors. Materials found in this series include correspondence, minutes, reports, resolutions, and action plans.
This series contains the personal files of individual NCA executives. It consists mostly of correspondence, but also contains materials such as biographies, press releases, and reports.
This series concerns the activities of various NCA departments, particularly the Policy Development and the Traffic and Transportation Department respectively. Materials found in this series consist chiefly of correspondence and reports.
This series documents the activities of the NCA’s permanent and temporary committees. Materials found in this series include correspondence, minutes, press releases, reports, resolutions, and action plans.
This series contains files concerning member associations of the NCA. It consists chiefly of correspondence, but also includes press releases, reports, and resolutions.
Various states (Alabama-Wyoming) Various states (Illinois-North Carolina) Various states (California-Utah) This series concerns individual issues, organizations, and people of interest to the NCA. Files regarding various NCA promotional activities are also found here. Materials in this series include clippings, correspondence, minutes, press releases, reports, and resolutions.
This series concerns the NCA’s annual conventions and mid-year meetings. It consists of correspondence, press releases, printed materials, proceedings, reports, and resolutions.
This series holds files pertaining to legal matters regarding the NCA. Materials include by-laws, briefs, correspondence, agreements, and minutes.
This series contains the NCA’s financial files. It consists of auditor’s reports, statements, tax returns, and ledgers.
This series documents NCA administrative activities. Materials include appointment letters, acceptance letters, and membership correspondence.
This series contains copies of business correspondence produced by the NCA.
This series contains copies of mimeographed documents produced by the NCA. Materials include correspondence, press releases, resolutions, reports, speeches, and statements.
This series contains photographic materials produced by the NCA. It consists of photographic prints, slides and transparencies, and photo negatives.
This series concerns the publications produced by the NCA. It contains books, periodicals, newsletters, and miscellaneous printed material. Also contains files documenting the production of these materials, which includes correspondence, subject files, manuscripts and galley proofs.
This series contains miscellaneous materials produced and collected by the NCA. Its contents include clippings, minutes, press releases, reports, resolutions, statements, awards, and printed material.
This series holds the audio-visual materials produced by the NCA. Its contents include audio tapes and motion pictures.
Collection contains a history of the 28th Aero Squadron (1918); correspondence, mostly written by Cassady in 1942 while he was in Vichy, France, before Nazi occupation and sent to his wife Elizabeth (1942, 1945, 1959, 1974); photographs; newspaper clippings; and miscellaneous other materials. Some of the material is in French. Mostly photocopies.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains correspondence between Nash and California and national lawmakers regarding the depressed state of the movie industry during the 1970s and ideas to combat the issue, a 140-page screenplay by Nash titled “Ten Little Kidnappers;” an article by Arnold M. Auerbach titled “He’s Flunking Buster Keaton!,” which is a satirical essay on the study of film; and a letter to the editor written by Nash that appeared in a publication of the Writers Guild of America, West, explaining and defending the Guild.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection consists mainly of scripts for radio and television programs written by Levy (1933-1965); miscellaneous photographs; and cast sheets, daily production reports, story ideas, script revisions, shooting schedules and related correspondence for "Many Happy Returns" (1963-1965).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Masters thesis study of geologic sites first photographed by Wilbur C. Knight, 1897-1902, then repeated by John D. Sharsmith, 1989, to document landscape changes at the various sites. Vegetative changes occurred, most often, at twice the rate of geomorphic and considered independent of geomorphic change.
Thesis manuscript contains chapter discussions on the nature of landscape photography, prephotographic process, geology, plant life and climate of Sand Creek area; an explanation, analysis and significance of the study; forty-seven matched pair photographs; eleven sites photo documented for possible change; photo negatives and site maps.
Collection contains subject files containing correspondence, minutes of meetings and reports concerning soil conservation projects (1964-1971); field diaries (1951-1964); maps of the Missouri River Basin (1944); and photographs of CCC projects in South Dakota (1934-1938), Soil Conservation Districts in Kansas (1957), and Hermanson's Air squadron in the Mariana Islands (1945).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Charles Stacy French papers contain maps of various mountains, photographs of camp sites and the Adirondacks, an unpublished manuscript pertaining to a Canadian Climbing Trip, mountaineering guide books and sketches of mountain ranges. The collection also contains mountaineering publications such as the Appalachia Mountain Club Bulletin (1928-1933), Appalachia (1934-1966) and Harvard Mountaineering (1936-1963) and a film reel of the Sierra Club Group at Shasta, Lassen (1934).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains mainly manuscripts written by Gordon and related correspondence for the books "Ideas in Conflict," "The Future," "First into Outer Space" and "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Moon," which was ghostwritten for Lois C. Philmus. Also included are a transcript of an interview with Gordon, the manuscript for an unpublished book on missile and space system engineering, and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The George T. Beck Papers, 1869-1968, include a large number of journals and record books relating to Beck's many business ventures. The collection contains records of the Shoshone Electric Light and Power Company the Shoshone Land and Irrigation Company, and other associations and organizations. The Legal Documents contain material relating to various court cases and land claims. Correspondence contains a mixture of personal, business, and politically-related correspondence. Diaries and Personal Papers include George Beck's diaries from 1889-1942. These diaries record daily happenings around the Beck residence in Cody and with Beck's business interests. This series also includes correspondence and financial receipts belonging to Christian Inhelder. Political Papers contain material belonging to George Beck's father, Senator James Beck of Kentucky, and also include documents relating to the many Democratic Conventions George Beck attended. Printed Material contains newspaper clippings relating to Beck's political and business careers. Maps of Wyoming and surrounding areas are included, as well as surveys of land around Cody and blueprints of several construction sites.
Collection contains mainly scripts for radio and television programs written by Singer from 1944-1969. Included are scripts for the radio programs "The Phil Harris, Alice Fay Show," "The Sealtest Village Store" and the television programs "The Jim Backus Show," "The Joey Bishop Show," "The Bill Dana Show," "It's a Great Life," "The Lucy Show," "Our Man Higgins," "The Frank Sinatra Show," and "The Danny Thomas Show." There are also 156 35 mm films from "It's a Great Life."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection consists of correspondence regarding court cases (1901-1918) and West's extensive legal files of court cases dealing with water rights, mining and petroleum companies and the collection of debts (1904-1918).
The collection contains correspondence, legal documents, and printed material concerning the Two Moon burial monument, Walker Moncure's life, All American Indian Days, and petroleum drilling on the Crow Indian Reservation in Montana. Also included are photographs of the Northern Cheyenne (Tongue River) Indian Reservation and of Moncure's store in Busby, Montana, as well as artifacts from the store. In addition there is a typescript of Moncure's unpublished novel "The Throwbacks," based on his experiences as an Indian trader. There are also publicity materials for "Sun Dances" sponsored by Moncure.
Manuscripts of this author's western novels published between 1954-1965. Collection also includes issues of various popular western fiction magazines.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains materials relating to Irving C. Root's involvement in city and national park planning including extensive subject files containing maps, architectural drawings, correspondence, publications, newspaper clippings, and articles and reports concerning projects for zoning, park systems, city planning, and the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission. The collection also contains files concerning his professional career and private practice. These files include correspondence, contracts, project prospects, newspaper clippings, articles and reports written by Root, and research files about zoning, park systems, and city planning.
This series contains correspondence, reports, legislation, articles, clippings, ordinances, maps, blueprints and architectural drawings, pamphlets, brochures, publications, notes, and photographs relating to specific projects and subjects that Root worked on during his professional career.
This series contains article and report drafts, contracts, city planning publicity and reports, correspondence, legislation, and newspaper clippings regarding Root's professional life.
This series contains photographs regarding Root's projects and professional career.
This series contains subdivision maps, zoning and planning city maps, and architectural drawings regarding Root's projects as a city planner, private consultant, and chief engineer and superintendent for the National Capital Parks.
Collection contains materials relating to the Josephsons' careers as writers and includes personal and professional correspondence (1916-1976); speeches (1935-1967); research notes used to write their books; and the galleys and manuscripts for many of their biographies and other works.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence regarding his work as a financial reporter and for the American Red Cross (1935-1945); speeches by Bowen on fund-raising (1950-1970); miscellaneous photographs of Bowen; 1 scrapbook on the Red Cross; a diary kept while on a trip to the Philippines for the Red Cross (1944); and miscellaneous biographical material on Bowen's father, Dr. David R. Bowen.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Story outlines for the television program "Death Valley Days" and other miscellaneous writings of this author.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains reprints of articles by Axelrod. His research fields include tertiary paleobotany, evolution of vegetation, paleoecology, paleoclimate, and plate tectonics and angiosperm evolution.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains pencil sketches, color drawings, storyboards, production instructions, production sheets, frame descriptions, correspondence, notes, scripts, music plastic overlays, and miscellaneous other materials. There are 103 35mm and 10 16mm motion picture films and 77 reel-to-reel audiotapes.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 6 land plats, 2 deed maps, 2 maps of Crook County, Wyoming (1 colored by Jack Nason), 1 map of land owned by Henry G. and Jane R. Weare, and a book of maps of Township 57.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
Collection contains a souvenir copy of the London Daily Mail dated June 23, 1897 commemorating the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list for box 1.
Collection contains materials mostly relating to Hosig's work on the Shoshone Irrigation Project, including correspondence with U.S. Reclamation officials regarding construction projects (1910-1953); reports (1922), maps, blueprints, and photographs of the Shoshone Irrigation Project; photographs of Hosig (1945-1952); and reports by Hosig to the Twin Lakes Reservoir and Canal Company on water supply (1955-1956).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
This collection contains Daniel A. Nelson's Bicentennial memorabilia and souvenirs collected primarily in the Laramie, Wyoming region. The material in this collection is representative of how the region and America celebrated the American Revolution Bicentennial in 1976. Found in the collection are Bicentennial themed calendars, book covers, posters, syrup bottles, soda cans, grocery bags, commemorative plates, tshirts and a flag. Also Included in this collection are desk calendars, placemats, mobiles, pencils, bumper stickers, sugar packets, potholders, reproductions of the U.S. Constitution, stickers, Town meeting posters, newspaper clippings, correspondence, bicentennial merchandise catalogs, miscellaneous bicentennial era newspapers and periodicals as well as Laramie Bicentennial materials. An assortment of subject files in this collection relate to Dan Nelson's Bicentennial era high school curriculum and include headings such as "Bicentennial ideas from students", "Buffalo project", "Bikecentennial", "Fire hydrant projects", "Contests", "My America contest", "Junior committee of correspondence", "Bicentennial youth debates" and National Educational Association Bicentennial plans". These subject files also include various educational material catalogs and educational newsletters such as "Bicentennial Times". This collection also contains bicentennial era brochures, pamphlets, publications, tourism brochures, and popular culture magazines and catalogs from the bicentennial era.
This series includes materials created (in one way or another) for the Bicentennial celebration. In addition to calendars, published articles, and memorabilia, there is information on events, tourist attractions, merchandise, and teaching lessons. The subject files include publications, correspondence, events, and event planning documents created by the American Revolution Bicentennial Administration and Commission.
Contains calenders, teaching materials, publications, mail-order catalogs, tourism brochures, University of Wyoming materials, and information on Wyoming.
Collection contains the photocopied musical scores for 10 episodes of the television program "Gunsmoke" composed by Klatzkin.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The B.W. Allred collection includes correspondence to Allred from Frederic E. and Edith S. Clements; publications by Frederic E. Clements and B.W. Allred about ecology and land management; photographs and slides of plants and range land; research material; reports; speeches; and newspaper clippings. Also included are photographs of cowboys, buffalo, and western scenery.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence (1938-1963); reports and articles by Regan on the economics of water resources and land use (1945-1960); subject files on the costs of water resources development, reservoirs and floods (1939-1958); and speeches on the economics of water resources and federal water policies (1954-1958).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection includes text of a speech on the religion of Abraham Lincoln; slides and accompanying text for a lecture on the Lincoln assassination and the search for John Wilkes Booth; a 1904 letter signed by Booker T. Washington; and a small amount of other correspondence.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection documents Thomas' cattle and sheep businesses, mainly Hay & Thomas. Hay & Thomas records include correspondence (1871-1889) including some personal letters of Thomas and of Hay and letters relating to the U.S. Surveyor Generals Office; daybooks (1873-1883); journals (1876-1888); ledgers (1870-1884); legal agreements (1871-1877); accounts with Whipple & Hay and other financial materials (1870-1892). Records of Thomas & Page (1881-1884), Suffolk Cattle Co. (1883-1893), Thomas & Arnett (1885-1890), Warner & Arnett (1884), and Adams, Choate & Co. (1888-1891) may include any of the following, letter books, cashbooks, journals, ledgers, trial balances, and legal agreements.
There are also a few materials (1873-1875) of Thomas and of Hay relating to the U.S. Surveyor Generals Office, including the field notes for his 1874 survey of the Fort Sanders military reservation outside of Laramie, Wyoming; and Thomas' records (1887-1888) on the construction of Atlas Block in Cheyenne.
Collection contains 7 pieces of correspondence (1946-1962); legal agreements between Tazewell and book and record companies for "The Littlest Angel" and "The Littlest Snowman" (1949-1962); 1 photograph of Tazewell with Ford; the script for the television special "The Story of Christmas"; lyrics for the song "The Littlest Angel"; newspaper clippings; and miscellaneous other writings.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains speeches (1933-1960); personal and professional correspondence (1925-1974); diaries (1939, 1942-1944) regarding his advisory work for the U.S. Treasury Department; miscellaneous materials relating to the Federal Reserve System and the President's Citizen Mutual Security Program (1939-1957); and 2 photograph albums.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains 80 original ink drawings with pencil annotations by this "Chicago Tribune" editorial cartoonist.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection is materials related to Okie's Wyoming ranch and mercantile businesses and includes 20 boxes of correspondence (1894-1921); 31 boxes of general business files, arranged alphabetically; day books of the mercantile stores (1899-1904); three letter books of the Bighorn Sheep Company (1897-1902), with some entries for the Casper Mercantile Company (1897-1898); a journal of the Buffalo Creek Company (1902-1903); a herd book for the Bighorn Sheep Company (1898-1906); a minute book for the Bighorn Sheep Company (1893-1909) and a passenger and freight record book of the No Wood and Lost Cabin Stage Line (1911-1914).
The collection contains a photocopy of manuscript by Norwood titled “Where Now Are Our Gifted Inventors;” pamphlets by Norwood or about his inventions (1948-1950); periodicals on cinematography (1939-1969); a program for a 1972 awards banquet; and a reprint of a 1969 article about a Norwood invention (1969).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes a letter press book of letters signed by Frederick V. Coville from 1897-1900, a manuscript by Coville entitled "Botanizing in Death Valley in 1891 and Fifty Years Afterward," 2 photographs, an 1891 cartoon on Death Valley, and printed materials by Coville and others, chiefly regarding blueberry culture.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains Herbert Oliver Brayer's research files, including those concerning the Western Range Cattle Industry Study, economic history of the American West, and "William Blackmore, A Case Study in the Economic Development of the West" (which contain correspondence, manuscripts, clippings, notes, legal documents, photographs, photograph negatives, and soundscriber disks). Collection also contains Brayer's personal correspondence, speech and book review manuscripts, notes, and biographical material. Two unidentified reel to reel audio tapes, miscellaneous clippings, and class materials are in this collection as well.
The collection contains letters from Charmian London to Earnest Hill; other letters of Charmian and Jack London; a manuscript outlining London’s novel “The Mutiny of the Elsinore”; biographical material about Earnest Hill and Jack London; and photographs of Earnest Hill and Charmian London.
Eight scripts for the television program "Mr. Peepers" co-written by Greenbaum and Jim Fritzell.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains materials relating to Rodgers's interest in land use and reclamation, including 158 interviews and research notes with engineers and other individuals involved with irrigation and water resources development in the west, 1904-1957; research notes on the Indian Irrigation Service and irrigation projects on Indian reservations containing newspaper clippings, maps and correspondence, 1914-1960; manuscripts for "Federal Reclamation's Pioneer Period: A Biographical Study of its Origins, Organization, and Early Work of its Engineer Corps" and "Indian Irrigation: Its Organization and Techniques"; and a scrapbook with photographs, newspaper clippings and biographical information on John Lucian Savage (1879-1967), a civil engineer for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, 1953.

This collection contains correspondence; professional certificates; pilot log books; newspaper clippings; photographs; programs; and other miscellaneous documents.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains Standard Oil Company of New Jersey's corporate records from its inception in 1882 as part of the Standard Oil Trust to its assumption of the Exxon name in 1973. It contains business records concerning the operations of Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and its subsidiaries (including Carter Oil Company and Imperial Oil Limited) throughout the United States and the world, which consist of business correspondence, clippings, financial files, legal files, photographs, notes, newspapers, printed materials, and stock certificate ledgers. Collection also contains large amounts of secondary materials, including publications (some published by Standard Oil Company of New Jersey), journals, books, government documents, and bound papers from Standard Oil Company of New Jersey's corporate libraries. A 1909 scrapbook concerning the prosecution of Standard Oil Company of New Jersey under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act is in this collection as well.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains materials mostly relating to Donley's work as a U.N. technical adviser, including miscellaneous photographs of Donley and irrigation projects; correspondence (1926-1966); miscellaneous maps; newspaper clippings (1950-1966); and Donley's extensive subject files containing maps, research notes and reports on projects in Argentina, Iceland, Ecuador and Jamaica (1957-1965).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection consists of Hospital subject files (1970-1973) dealing with bond issues, construction, budget, salaries and retirement; and Hospital Board of Trustees budgets, correspondence and minutes of meetings (1970-1973).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes correspondence regarding constituent concerns, political appointments, and pending legislation. Subject files include the Laramie (Wyoming) Alumina Plant; Arizona Creek Toll Station near Jackson, Wyoming; the 1954 drought in Wyoming and the West; grazing legislation; and the U. S. Senate censure proceedings against Senator Joseph McCarthy. There are files on four reclamation projects (Echo Park Dam, Glendo Dam, the Missouri River, and the Upper Colorado River). Also included are legislative files and a 1956 speech kit from the Republican National Committee.
The collection contains a manuscript by Marguerite Wyman and letters from Watson Wyman relating the history of the dude ranch. The collection also contains photographs of Trapper’s Lodge, its personnel, and guests, including photographs of the Wister family.
The John Franklin Carter papers include correspondence, numerous manuscripts, books, some photographs and other biographical material. Most of this material relates to American political and diplomatic events from World War I through World War II. The correspondence and manuscript portions of this collection are extensive and they express Carter's expert opinions of his time.
Contains personal and family memorabilia with some life histories. Arranged alphabetically by type.
Contains family letters and professional communications. Arranged chronologically.
Entries include weather, appointments, and some observations. Arranged chronologically.
Most items address politics and foreign policy. Arranged alphabetically by title.
Contains personal, family, and professional portraits.
Contains Carter’s NBC Radio political commentaries. Arranged chronologically.
Includes a variety of headings such as autographs, politics, New York politics, Canada, and conservation. Arranged alphabetically by subject heading.
Contains subject and bibliographical cards for three political/historical books. Arranged alphabetically.
Contains political books by Carter and copies of Yale College songs.
Collection contains congratulatory letters related to Harrington's appointment as IRS commissioner; scrapbooks of correspondence, reports, newspaper and magazine clippings, programs, invitations and other memorabilia of his IRS tenure; speeches; IRS newsletters; and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
This collection contains articles, booklets, charts, diagrams, reports and miscellaneous documents pertaining to aviation, safety, and aeronautical engineering; correspondence between Howard and other aviation professionals (1945-1958); and photographs of Ben O. Howard, and airplane crashes.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence (1907-1937); field diaries (1921-1926); articles on irrigation (1908-1919); newspaper clippings (1913-1927); and miscellaneous photographs of Teele (1914-1917).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Arthur C. Tate papers include a diary of a camping trip in the Mission Range of Montana from July 11-27, 1927. The party fished, climbed the Daughter of the Sun, hiked, and visited several lakes and ranches. Also included are articles by Tate about his climbs in the Wind River Range and Mission Range, newspaper stories about climbing Gannet Peak, a map of the Turquoise Basin, and related printed material.
Collection contains correspondence (1914-1930); diaries (1920-1970); miscellaneous photographs and memorabilia; and records of the Prommel Mining Company, including minutes of meetings and expense accounts (1932-1934).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains an account book for the Merriam Sheep Company of Moneta, Wyoming (1907-1918); and 17 letters regarding Joyce's investigation of the murder of Warner Moody of Shoshoni, Wyoming.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Miscellaneous scripts and films of television pilots and other writings of this writer for television and motion pictures. There are also miscellaneous related materials including materials concerning David Selznick, an independent movie producer with whom Blees was associated.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Oscar Stonorov papers document Stonorov’s career as architect and city planner. Much of the material pertains to architectural and artistic projects including Stonorov’s home (Avon Lea), the Carl Mackley Housing Project, Philadelphia city planning projects, exhibits such as “Frank Lloyd Wright” and “Better Philadelphia,” and sculptures. Materials include drawings, notes, photographs, reports, and correspondence. The correspondence series chiefly concerns various construction and urban planning projects, but there is personal correspondence as well. There is an alphabetical index for the general correspondence.
The collection also contains speeches, papers, and articles written by Stonorov expressing his views on design and urban planning. In addition there is material from conferences, round tables, interviews, and forums with which Stonorov was involved. Also included are subject and research files and newspaper clippings on Stonorov’s work and colleagues, and biographical material such as resumes, articles about Stonorov, and photographs of him.
Contains information on buildings, city planning, exhibits, and sculptures. It includes photographs, financial data and reports relating to projects.
Contains drawings, notes, reports, plans, photos, clippings, and correspondence for buildings and city planning projects by Stonorov and his architectural firms.
Contains drawings, plans, correspondence, and press releases for exhibits curated and sculptures created by Stonorov.
Contains professional and personal correspondence
Contains speeches and papers presented at various conferences. Also includes published articles written by Stonorov. Folder titles may reflect the paper title or the conference where it was presented.
Contains materials relating to international, national, and regional architectural issues with which Stonorov was involved. It includes transcripts from forums and roundtables; minutes, agendas, and proceedings from committees and conferences; materials from professional organizations; and other materials relating to Stonorov's involvement in issues on architecture and city planning.
This sub-series contains information on Stonorov's colleagues, papers and reports written by others, photographs, and research on aging.
Contains newspaper clippings on various subjects, people, and projects by Stonorov.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection includes correspondence with many writers, political leaders and other notables (1840-1931); texts and notes for speeches; articles and publications by Putnam; scrapbooks of personal and Putnam Co. memorabilia; and miscellaneous other materials.
Collection contains L. Wolfe Gilbert's correspondence (business and personal), song lyric notes (handwritten, typed, and mimeographed), and subject files (containing clippings, sheet music, and printed materials). Collection also contains photographs (mostly of Gilbert and other show business personalities), original manuscripts of Gilbert's autobiography Without Rhyme or Reason, and several scrapbooks (which contain clippings, correspondence, and song lyrics). Numerous 78 rpm phonograph records of L. Wolfe Gilbert songs recorded by various artists (including Fred Waring, Count Basie, and Xavier Cugat), published sheet music of Gilbert's songs, award plaques and certificates, and a handful of original musical scores are also present in the collection.
The collection contains copies of research materials, information sheets, correspondence, newspaper clippings, articles, and photographs mostly regarding George Armstrong Custer and Anna "Annie" Elinor Jones. Included are manuscripts for Minion’s book, The Riddle of Annie Elinor Jones, Pal of Custer, along with research material for the book. Also included are newspaper clippings, documents, and articles concerning African-American soldiers in the Confederate Army, slavery, and other topics, including involvement of Annie Elinor Jones with Union and Confederate officers.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains motion picture scores, television production scores, audio recordings of motion picture music composed and /or arranged by Gerald Fried, and photographs. Motion picture titles included in the collection are "Bayou," "Caligari," "Dino," "Cold Wind in August," "Machine Gun Kelly," "Timbuktu," "The Restless Breed," "Terror in a Texas Town," and "The Young Lions". Television titles include "Ben Casey," "Gunsmoke," "Jericho," "The Man from U.N.C.L.E.," and many others.
Collection contains mainly historical materials gathered by Boudreau for the history of the petroleum industry and corporation exhibits. Collection includes account books, stock certificates, newspapers and maps, advertisements, and other materials gathered by Boudreau and deal mostly with the petroleum industry in Pennsylvania (1823-1960). Also included is Thomas Midgley's correspondence (1919-1952) regarding scientific research and business matters; photographs and glass slides of research and equipment (1923-1943); publications and speeches (1923-1983); 10 8mm and 26 16mm service and training films; and 5 33 1/3 rpm phonograph records of a 1940 Charles Kettering speech and a 20th anniversary observation.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Contains 16mm motion picture service and training films and audio recordings.
The Herb Meadow papers contain stage, radio, motion picture, and television scripts written by Herb Meadow. Also included is research material, including an audio tape of interviews with truck drivers and publicity materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Mainly manuscripts and galleys of many of this author's Western novels along with some stories which appeared in magazines. There are also related correspondence (some concerning the Western Writers of America), reviews, contracts and photographs.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Mainly radio and television scripts (including the 1969 Academy Awards and 1968 Emmy Awards) for variety shows written by this comedy writer during the 1950s and 1960s. There are also reel-to-reel audio tapes of highlights of the radio program, "The Gold Coast Show" written by Bloom and a few materials relating to Bloom's night club writings.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The H.D. Richardson family papers contain letters written by family members and friends to Lucia (“Mittie”) Richardson. These include letters from former ranch hands with whom she continued to correspond. Also included are photographs of the family and legal documents concerning land and water rights. There are letters and a ledger concerning the administration of Albany County School District #11. There is also a diary of Caira Simpson (1908-1914). In addition there are family histories compiled and edited by Keith C. Yeager, Beulah Richardson’s grandson.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Indian Petroleum Corporation records contain articles of incorporation and by-laws; prospecting reports, drilling agreements, and oil and gas leases from the Corporation’s fields in California, New Mexico, Texas, Montana, and Wyoming; Corporation President C.M. Bowen’s and Secretary Lawrence E. Armstrong’s correspondence regarding leases and sale of stock; and stockholders materials and Board of Directors minutes of meetings.
The collection contains memorabilia of Gayle Burns's experiences as a pilot. Included are photographs of a 1931 Los Angeles air show, Gayle Burns with her flight instructor, and the women aviators who made up the 99 Club. There are also newspaper clippings about women in aviation and aviators during World War II. In addition, the collection contains correspondence, 99 Club newsletters, a 1941 United Airlines brochure with travel tips, and other flight-related materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains numerous maps of Wyoming and a few of Colorado, dating from 1912 through the 1940s. The maps are geological and topographical and cover many sections of Wyoming and a few other Rocky Mountain states where Johnston pursued mineral and oil exploration. Also included are: handwritten field notebooks (1918-1923), many technical drawings and data gathered on site; well logs; newspaper clippings related to oil and gas, 1935-1945; and printed material including commercial fliers, government pamphlets, particularly the Bureau of Mines. There are also patents information, 1940-1941, and commercial information on geiger counters, 1948-1949. Correspondence, photographs and negatives, articles and bulletins on pertinent geology are included.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection is chiefly materials on Wyoming oil fields including printed maps with hand drawn additions, reports on oil fields including Baxter Basin and Grass Creek, a small amount of correspondence, notes, agreements, and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection consists of photocopies of Dullenty's correspondence, research files, and articles relating to Butch Cassidy and other topics in western and outlaw history.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection consists of photocopies of correspondence and miscellaneous relating to the Taylor Grazing Act. There is also a biographical sketch on Dillard, written by his daughter, Jessie Dillard Raber.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains Lamb’s work as a forester; including maps, photographs, and research materials on his dissertation on mahogany, as well as correspondence, reports, maps, photographs and articles from his professional travels. The collection also includes drafts, notes, correspondence, and research files about Manuel Cordova-Rios and the Amazon; Kid Curry and the Wild Bunch; and Lamb’s unpublished book on ecology. Personal materials like daily calendars, notebooks, passports and travel documents, and employment records are also included.
Arranged alphabetically. Contains personal calendars, notes, employment records, and passports, and other travel documents; Graduation programs for the University of Michigan, and obituaries and memorial service information.
Primarily reports, surveys, maps, memos, photographs, pertinent correspondence, and printed materials regarding Lamb’s forestry assignments. Materials are grouped by country or company as arranged by Lamb. The arrangement was maintained, and material is listed alphabetically within each sub-series.
Drafts, research materials including newspaper clippings, articles, and printed materials, in addition to correspondence for published and unpublished articles and books written by Lamb.
Articles topically cover forestry, environmental and ecology issues, reactions and defense of “Wizard of the Upper Amazon”, and articles on Kid Curry and the Wild Bunch. Correspondence and any drafts are grouped with the published article. Articles are arranged chronologically.
Newspaper clippings, articles, reports and printed materials on various topics of forestry, the environment and ecology, science and technology, and the Amazon.
Collection contains correspondence (1945-1964), miscellaneous materials related to Lesan's work in radio (1937-1947), and scripts for the television programs "Search for Tomorrow" and "As the World Turns" (1967-1973).
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains correspondence, news releases, pamphlets, bumper stickers, newspaper clippings, and printed materials from various state and national groups related to Gostas' work on POW/MIA issues; correspondence from other POW wives and families; posters depicting Wyoming POWs; materials related to the Geneva conference; notes and drafts; and miscellaneous memorabilia.
Collection contains professional correspondence (1952-1974); research files on children, parenting and children's education (1962-1972); 1 scrapbook; articles by Coffin; and the galleys, photographs and manuscript for "1,2,3,4,5,6."
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection includes correspondence and informational files related to newspapers in 30 towns, mostly in New Mexico and Colorado (1949-1969); a small amount of correspondence (1939-1968); a scrapbook of photocopied newspaper clippings (1938-1972); photocopied newspaper clippings related to O'Brien's career (1935-1972); and miscellaneous other materials.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The collection contains photocopies of articles and newspaper clippings regarding the history of the U.S. Air Mail Service. There are also photographs of Pedri and various meetings of the Air Mail Pioneers Association. Also included is some memorabilia. The collection materials primarily focus on the 50th anniversary of the Air Mail Service in 1968.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
Collection contains the manuscripts, galleys and related correspondence for "Brand of a Man," "Outlaw Valley" and other works; correspondence and other materials relating to his membership in the Western Writers of America (1981-1987); and a scrapbook from his work at the Amarillo "Globe-Times," which won a Pulitzer Prize in 1961 for its coverage of corruption in the Amarillo police department.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.
The Frank W. Mondell papers contain correspondence which includes references to the Teapot Dome scandal and samples of his daily correspondence (1895-1934), photographs of politicians that he knew (1903-1934), scrapboooks regarding his political career (1894-1926), newspaper clippings (1906-1959), printed material (1914-1939), and speeches given by Mondell and his wife, Ida (1911-1931). There is also his autobiography that covers the early history of the Mondell family and Mondell's activities until the end of his Congressional career in 1923 (ca. 1935).
This collection consists of correspondence; research notes; magazine and newspaper articles and clippings; and other miscellaneous materials dealing with the writing of the book “The Bashful Billionaire” about Howard Hughes. Also included are court documents in the case of Rosemont Enterprises, Inc. vs. Random House dated 1966.
The American Heritage Center is in the process of converting its older container lists to a more accessible format. This link is to an older version of a container list.

