The Lucy Young Ford Letter was written by Mrs. Ford to her husband to report to him on her activities as a schoolteacher at the Blackfeet Agency. The letter mentions many of the couple's friends back east in the context of asking about their health and activities. Other descriptions include regarding the students in her school, a description of the funeral of an Indian child who was buried in the ground contrary to the tribe's traditional method, and the social and leisure activities of the Anglo members of the agency staff like amateur theatricals and playing croquet.
The William H. Tracy Papers consist of land transfer legal documents, Civil War pension applications, a business ledger and other miscellaneous papers. The papers document the real estate and mercantile operations of William H. Tracy throughout his life in Bozeman, Montana. Included is documentation of a patent for a new design of bobsled which Tracy had planned to market, diary entries within the W. H. Tracy and Company business ledger that records brief daily information on Tracy's activities from January 1907 to April 1908, and a business letter from T. B. Story written in 1909.
The Laura Brown Zook Reminiscence discusses Zook’s life in the infant community of Miles City, her early education, and various notable events in the area.
The Jackie Loesel Diary contains brief entries and discusses fellow employees, movies and concerts attended, books read, scenic places visited in the park, as well as special employee parties.
The Charles H. Barstow Scrapbook was created by Charles H. Barstow for his daughter, Elizabeth, and given to her on February 16, 1891. The book contains mostly mounted newspaper clippings, the majority of which deal with the Crow Indian tribe, or other Native Americans of the northern plains. Topics include: various controversies regarding the sale or leasing of Crow lands, particularly during the fall of 1887; the alleged malfeasance of Indian Agents H. J. Armstrong and Henry E. Williamson; crime; cattle ranching in the Crow reservation area; the Wounded Knee massacre of 1890 and events leading to it. There are also obituaries and social notices of persons in New England that were apparently friends or relatives of Barstow.
The Victor E. George Diary is a positive photocopy of a ruled notebook containing entries which document his activities from 1907 to 1931. Most of the entries are quite terse, and few are beyond a single sentence that summarizes a day's activities such as teaching school, travel to different Montana towns, and ranch chores. Also detailed are cattle and livestock numbers and sales, family birthdays, and short essays regarding particular events or people in his extended family.
The Harry B. Mitchell Papers consist of correspondence, brochures, pamphlets, newspaper articles, government documents, working papers, legislative lists, a photo story, a slide presentation and slide, various bill drafts, broadsides, state reports, congratulatory letter, and recommendations. The materials pertain to Mitchell service as co-chair of the Jaycees Legislative Committee in 1962, service chairing the Conservation Committee of the Jaycees, and his 1963 American Motors Non-Professional Conservation Award.
The Manhattan Malting Company Records include two volumes. The volumes chronicle the company's transactions and expenses from the malt house and elevator, farm, townsite and freight.
The History of a Bridle Narrative provides an account of Montana's vigilante activity starting in 1864, although it appears the document was composed much later in the nineteenth or early twentieth century. The unknown author describes a trip from Denver to Virginia City in the spring of 1864, working a claim in German Gulch, a horseback trip to Atchison, Kansas in 1865 and return Helena, Montana in 1866. The narrative also discusses a great deal of vigilante activity primarily in the Helena area.
The Orson N. Newman Papers consists of positive photocopies and typed transcriptions of two diaries kept by Orson Newman in 1879 and 1884 which discuss daily life and farming operations in Coulson, Montana Territory; positive photocopy of an account book listing garden truck sold to W.A. Perry, purchasing agent for the Northern Pacific during its construction; 27 copy photographs of: the Newman and Scott families and their residences in the Billings area; Scott business buildings in Billings and a Billings street scene, circa 1900-1920.
The Queer Straight Alliance provides a safe, friendly environment for the LGBTQ+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and other identities) members, as well as creating political awareness, social activities, and informaation to the community of Montana State University. This collection includes correspondence and paperwork related to the founding and operations of Queer Straight Alliance on campus and issues that they were concerned with since 1977.
The Margaret Patten Letter was written on February 10, 1921 and was titled "A Strange Disappearance". The letter was addressed to someone who can only be identified as Alice. The letter discusses her recollection of a story that was told to her by the host of her camp on a trip to a scout station on the park line.about the deserted cabin of Andrew Levinski, a Polish prospector, and two members of a Gallatin Canyon prospector corporation that he shot.
The Louisa Burton Ledger lists transactions from 1889 to 1895. Information includes the surname of the stockgrower, the number and dates of cattle or horses pastured, and prices charged. There are also brief household account entries, and some data on vegetable sales to Bozeman residents.
The Frank L. Benepe Records include business related documents and correspondence. Of particular interest are the papers regarding Benepe's business with the United States Geological Survey, the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the United States army, including transactions with the post at Yellowstone National Park, Camp Sheridan.
Our Geyser Trip is journal of a trip through Yellowstone Park in 1882 was written in a leather covered notebook by Lora M. Richter at age 19. The journey began on September 15 from the Richter's South Meadow Creek ranch in the Madison Valley and ended on October 8 back at the ranch.
The Adrien L. Hess papers dealing with the administration, preparation, and promotion of science fairs for Montana High school students contain letters, printed and mimeographed catalogs, newsletters, award winner lists, and other materials documenting fairs nationally as well as in Montana.
The Ethel V. Storm Narrative is a photocopy of a partial typewritten narrative written by Ethel V. Storm based on a conversation with her father, Maynard S. Bean, concerning the Cheyenne Indian "uprising" of 1897.
The Harry C. James Papers consist of the James manuscript in three different stages of completion; research correspondence between James and the various sources he contacted for the biography, as well as positive photocopies of primary sources from various institutions indexed by James; other research copies; photographs copied from originals held by original sources.
The Rick Reese Collection consists of documents, clippings, media, and transparencies were created or collected by Reese from 1981-2013. Items found within this collection relate to foundational materials of the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, reports, correspondence, project information, and an outreach slideshow on the Greater Yellowstone area.
The Dawson County Homestead Questionnaires microfilm reel contains images of pre-printed forms of ten basic questions regarding the respondent’s knowledge of homesteading law prior to settlement, journey to Montana, accommodations, time and place of location, experiences in registering claims, and other pertinent information regarding the process.
The Delta Kappa Gamma. Mu Chapter Records consists of materials produced by the organization and its members and include minutes, attendance roles, photos, clippings and a charter.
The Del Jenkins interview by Art True while wintering in San Diego, California in 1968. Jenkins describes his experiences as a Yellowstone stage coach driver and anecdotes about some of the tourists he transported.
The Roy E. Huffman Papers consist of materials are mostly typewritten with some handwritten notes and letters, and include photocopies or reprints of previously published materials, reports, speeches and presentations; plans, programs, schedules, studies, and numerous papers related to his professional positions at MSU ; numerous research notes and unfinished manuscript pages with bibliographical materials and citations; personal and professional correspondence; and clippings from newspapers and journals. Subjects are wide ranging but can be characterized into several categories: a) files on topics of general interest or research interest; b) files related to specific organizations, conferences, symposia or programs both professional and governmental (these may have correspondence and attachments included); c) files related to the research and publication of Roy Huffman's writings; d) files related to Montana State University (Montana State College before 1962) which may be by subject; by department; by specific positions Huffman held during his career; by committee, program, institutional or branch names; by faculty, students or individuals; or as miscellaneous items. e) correspondence: alphabetical files of a professional or personal nature maintained by Huffman plus individually named correspondence files of colleagues intimately involved with his research and writing as well as politicians and selected projects or organizations.
The Thomas B. Brook Photographs consist of nature landscapes and town views of southwest Montana and particularly in the Twin Bridges area of Madison and Beaverhead Counties. Subjects include natural history, ranch and farming operations, bridges and bridge construction, schools and school groups, and early settlers of the Twin Bridges area.
The Joe H. Rawlins Diaries consist of thirty one individual annual volumes dated from 1968 to 1997. Information in the diaries includes appointments, travel, consultations, technical data, and some personal observations of Rawlins as he worked as a consulting geologist. Many of the named Rawlins contacts are members of the Crow tribe, and most of the locations described are on the Crow Reservation and elsewhere in eastern Montana. In addition to coal, gas, and oil exploration, Rawlins advised on water well locations for named individuals.
The Louis Agassiz Letters consists of correspondence and a photogravure pertaining to Agassiz's efforts to collect fish specimen and eggs (presumably fish eggs) from colleagues throughout New England.
The Autobiography of James David Wood was authored by Wood in 1902. Wood's story gives an outline of his trip to Montana in 1864, his early residence in Virginia City, his experiences in the Nez Perce and Bannock wars, and a brief outline of his business ventures.
 The A.K. Best collection consists of letters, printed emails, drafts of various books, published articles, flies, and awards. Materials include business correspondence, manuscript material, published magazine articles and periodicals, photographs, and memorabilia ranging from 1983-2015.
The Balgord Papers consist of letters, speeches, press releases, clippings, and legislative memoranda mostly dealing with Montana water policy and Balgord's involvement with related legislation. Particularly prominent are documents discussing the Deadman's Basin Project, the Montana legislature's hearing on water conservation, and three telegrams from United States Senator Burton K. Wheeler.
The Gary Herbert Howells Papers consists of correspondence with customers, fellow rod builders, fly tiers, and anglers from across the world.
The Thatcher scrapbooks consist of two volumes. The first, which covers the years 1963-1966, deals with the Montana Centennial train and contains newspaper clippings, memorabilia, and passenger lists all dealing with the train’s organization and journey to New York in 1964. The second scrapbook contains newspaper clippings dating from 1948 to 1955 about Madison and Gallatin County pioneers, including Lilla Bogert, Frieda Bull, Elmer Cass, Mary Hunter Doane, Caroline McGill, Pete Karst, Frank “Doc” Nelson, Lester Pierstorff, and Davis Willson.
The Max Worthington Papers consist of a scrapbook chronicling his career, personal and professional correspondence, and photographs. Subjects present in the collection include the Montana State "Golden Bobcats;" the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity; college football, basketball and track teams; the Helms Athletic Foundation Hall of Fame; the Montana State University Hall of Fame; Montana high school athletics; Worthington Arena; Max Worthington's retirement party; "Golden Bobcat" reunions; and the Montana Special Olympics.
The Merrill G. Burlingame Papers consist of correspondence between Merrill G. Burlingame and the law firm of Wilkinson, Cragun and Barker, handwritten research notes and a folder of related printed materials, clippings, and maps.
The Lehrkind Coal and Ice Company Records consist of financial ledgers, daybooks, and other business records of the various Livingston based Lehrkind operations, including firms that were absorbed by the company such as the Park Bottling Works and the Livingston Ice Company.
The Wallis Huidekoper Collection consists a selection of letters exchanged between Dr. Merrill G. Burlingame and Wallis Huidekoper regarding the editing of an oral history interview conducted in 1954, a 1929 letter from Edward Douglas Branch thanking Huidekoper for his favorable comments on The Hunting of the Buffalo (New York: D. Appleton and Co., 1929) and a 1938 letter from Martin S. Garretson, again thanking Huidekoper for favorable comments on his book, The American Bison (New York: New York Zoological Society, 1938). Also included are edited versions of an oral history interview with Huidekoper conducted by Elizabeth DeFrate and Merrill G. Burlingame on July 26, 1954 and transcribed from an audio tape, a typed bibliography of Huidekoper's articles, along with two original manuscripts he wrote concerning artist Charles M. Russell has been placed in a separate folder. Other materials include printed brochures and pamphlets written by or pertaining to Huidekoper' father, Henry Shippen Huidekoper and newspaper clippings pertaining to historic sites in the Germantown, Pennsylvania area, Wallis Huidekoper, Theodore Roosevelt, and ranching in North Dakota and Montana. Six photographs of North Dakota badlands residents circa 1880s and the Huidekoper ranch near Big Timber, Montana, circa 1956, complete the collection.
The Gertrude White papers includes original handwritten letters, envelopes, and billing statements for Mrs. Gertrude White. Correspondents include: Mrs. J.L. Guthrie, Lester White, and Roxana Beck of Montana Deaconess School. Topics discussed include: an expected delivery, Lester’s daily activities at the children’s home, and finances. Locations in Montana include Bozeman, Manhattan, and Helena.
The Crow Indian Agency Fraud Hearings Collection consist of affidavits, letters, and a statement. The printed documents reflect the grand jury hearings of the United State District Court in Virginia City, Montana into the allegations of fraud posed by Captain Edward Bell against Dexter E. Clapp and Nelson Story in 1876.
The Montana Agricultural Statistics Press Releases consist of press releases from agencies who were concerned primarily with crop and livestock production.
Personal files and artwork of Bob and Gennie DeWeese, two Bozeman-based artists and teachers who helped to build Montana's modernist art scene.
The Campbell Family Papers includes several letters, legal documents, and promissory notes spanning 1836 to 1899. Topics discussed include Campbell's plans to move west, a flood at Gallatin City, a sympathetic account of the Nez Perce pursuit and the writer's friend, Looking Glass, as well as a description of the death of Fannie Campbell's mother.
The Morris State Bank records contains the records of Morris State Bank and Mining company records (Pony Gold Mining Company, the Indian Mining Company, and the various business operations of Elling and Morris). Records consist of outgoing correspondence, balance ledgers, deposit information, payroll registers, and other business information.
The Richard H. Clow Family Papers consist of letters, photographs, and a biography of Richard H. Clow titled Rough Enough (2012) by Richard H. McBee. Topics include family news and some local conditions in San Jose, California, Hawaii, and Seattle, Washington.
This Norman Strung Papers are made up primarily of literary manuscripts written by Norman Strung. There are rough and final drafts of the books he wrote along with galley proofs. In addition to his feature article manuscripts is correspondence that pertains to his writings, such as acceptances and rejections of his articles. Almost all of his articles are on the subject of the outdoors.
Letters, journals, diary and miscellaneous documents created by William S. Prentiss, Roderick Prentiss, William Prentiss, and their descendants. Topics include Roderick’s experiences as a cadet at the United States Naval Academy and an officer serving aboard the United States Naval vessels Portsmouth, Crusader, and Monongahela, William’s journey to the gold fields of Montana Territory, his search for gold in Alder Gulch, and his decision to return to Indiana.
The Patten Family Papers consists of correspondence; biographical materials; case files; printed materials; school notes and artwork; memorabilia; and photographs. The earlier documents, 1895-1900 primarily pertain to F.E.W. Patten and George Y. Patten. The documents between 1900 and the 1920s generally pertain to George Y. Patten and his first marriage to Eleanor Ferris and their daughter Margaret. The later documents from the 1920s to 1986 refer mainly to George and his second wife, Frances Smith Patten. Letters from Frances Patten while she was in the Middle East as an American Field Staff agent are extensive. George Y. Patten's professional correspondence pertain to such topics as the Montana Automobile Association, the West Gallatin Highway into Yellowstone National Park, and the establishment of a Lewis and Clark Memorial. Printed materials include pamphlets and news clippings on art, Montana history and international travel. School Notes and Records relates entirely to Margaret Patten's secondary school work and shows her interest and endeavors in visual art. Memorabilia refers to Margaret Patten's scrapbook and items collected by Frances Patten. Photographs refer mainly to Frances Smith Patten's Extension Service work and to her marriage to George Y. Patten.
The Suckley Papers consist of three autographed letters he received from Isaac I. Stevens, a newspaper clipping, and two engravings of Stevens printed during the Civil War.
The Samuel O'Connell letter to Franklin Linfield describes the arrest of the Lakota warrior Rain-in-the-Face by Captain Thomas Custer in 1874.
The Montana State University Extension Service Records consist of annual reports, administrative files, and microfilm records from 1912-1070.
The Carolyn Reynolds Reibeth Letter is a lengthy typewritten letter sent Minnie Paugh, the Special Collections librarian for Montana State University that discusses rancher Frank Michael Heinrich (1869-1928) and his cattle operation on the reservation in the early twentieth century. Riebeth's letter describes the Heinrich cattle roundups that she attended as a girl and biographical information about Heinrich including his later activities as a Hardin, Montana banker.
The Michael Langohr Diary is a typed transcript of entries which describe his daily activities 1899 to 1906 as the first supervisor of the Gallatin National Forest in southwest Montana. Information includes synopsis of visitation to check on grazing and timber lessees, weather conditions, travel distances, as well as applications of varying sorts such as grazing and timber leases.
The Big Hole Commercial Company Cash Books consist of three daily cash book volumes recording transactions from 1907 to 1914. Information includes the chronological listing of each customers name, a brief synopsis of their purchases, and the amount.
Grandson of C. W. Cook and Montana historian. Materials accumulated by Mueller on the Cook-Folsom Expedition.
The Columbus Creamery Company by-laws consist of five articles adopted March 31, 1906 and amended on June 5, 1906. The by-laws address: authorization to construct a facility, state the purpose of the company is to manufacture butter and cheese from milk obtained from local milk producers, delineates the selling of shares to stockholders, designates it as a cooperative, sets rules as to the disbursement of dividends, defines stockholders' meetings, establishes officers and a board of directors as well as their respective duties, outlines the creation and issue of stocks, and rules regarding borrowing money for company operations.
The Philip Thorpe Property Settlement Papers consist of letters sent by Sweeney to Thorpe with detailed instructions on handling livestock on the property and what improvements to pay for. Also included is a schoolgirl's letter, likely written by Aline ("Ellen") Anceney, regarding a school at Spring Hill, and a letter from Episcopal priest Frank B. Lewis inquiring about local interest in a church service to be held in Thorpe's area.
The Hobart D. Myrick Papers consists of documents pertaining to the operation of Myrick's ranch at Square Butte, Montana, personal correspondence, Myrick family genealogy, and various Geraldine, Montana institutions such as the Methodist Church, Equity Cooperative Association, and Farmers Union Grain Terminal Association. Also included are detailed financial records pertaining to Myrick's creation and presidency of the Square Butte Elevator Company.
The Montana State College, Office of the President Annual Reports Received comprise a collection of prepared statements created by various academic and administrative subdivisions of the school from 1921 to 1968, the bulk of which were issued prior to the 1965 establishment of the school as a university. These subdivisions include academic departments, schools, divisions, and colleges, along with academic support units such as the registrar and student health center.
The David B. Christie Family Letters were written by David and Emma or sent to them by other family members. The letters predominantly reflect the sharing of family information within the context of their daily lives. Most of the letters between David and Emma reveal the dreams, goals, and struggles of moving to Montana.
Montana State University Library's Archives and Special Collections documentation of the COVID-19 pandemic's affect on the MSU campus.
The Starr School Fancy Dancers Photographs consist of fifty-seven 35mm transparencies with an accompanying audiotape reel. The images are of the Siksika Starr School Fancy Dancers, chosen to illustrate costumes and dancing techniques as they coordinate with the narration by Taft.
The Wilbur F. Sanders Papers consist of letters and cards received by him in response to an invitation for the sliver wedding anniversary celebration of Harriet and Wilbur Sanders on October 27, 1883. The collection also includes a scrapbook of mounted newspaper clippings pertaining to the anniversary observance, Sanders' political activities, and obituaries of Sanders and members of his extended family. Five photographs of Wilbur F. Sanders, Louis P. Sanders and Sidney Edgerton complete this collection.
The Emma Stoker Photographs are a collection of copy prints taken from the album loaned to MSU by Mary Leth in 1967. The photographs have been gathered into topically labeled folders. Included are early views of Belgrade, Pony, and Norris, Montana.
The Joan Wulff Papers include correspondence, speeches, article and book manuscripts, galleys, brochures, artwork, and photographs. Topics include fly fishing, fly fishing techniques, and fly fishing equipment for women.
The Springhill Go-Getters were a Gallatin County 4-H club. Historian's book documenting the activities of the Springhill Go-Getters 4-H club.
The Montana Oral History Collection consists of various individual recordings. Persons interviewed or speaking on the various tapes include: Holmes Stuart Batchelder, Frank Christopher Collins, Beatrice Freeman Davis, Lucy Stafford Peck, Harvey P. Griffin, Eugene Quaw, Malcolm Chilton Story, Elizabeth Spain Ault, Charles Diggs Greenfield, Thomas Tillman, Maria Leonard, Janet McAtee, Doris Townsend, Annie Davidson Boyse Childress, A.C. Newby, Edwin Iverson, and Gardner Waite. Montana places mentioned in the various tapes include Gallatin County, Stillwater County, Lewis and Clark County, Madison County, Powder River County, Bozeman, Belgrade, Helena, Big Timber, Missouri Flats, Gallatin Field Airport, and Montana State University. Subjects include homesteading, newspaper reporting, musicians, aviation, the Alpha Lambda Delta sorority, retail business, the Glass-Lindsay Land Company, and general Montana history.
The Chandler C. Cohagen Papers consist of notes, photographs, printed materials, project specifications and architectural drawings which document his long career as an architect in Montana. Although the majority of the architectural projects in this collection were created by Cohagen himself, works by other architects are also represented. The projects include public and private buildings in Montana, Wyoming, and a few other states.
The Bozeman Ministerial Conference Records consist of minute books that document the meetings from 1892 through 1908 of a ecumenical organization consisting of Protestant clergymen in Bozeman, Montana. Information contained in the minute books includes the papers presented at the meetings, committee reports on social issue actions, and treasury reports.
The SPURS National Honor Society Records comprise multiple accessions donated to Special Collections over the course of several years. The Materials have been arranged into five series: Scrapbooks, Ephemera, Local Records, National Records, and Audio and Photographic Materials.
45 individual Boot Spurs: items range from small to large. Some items still have their tooled boot leather attachments, some have plain leather attachments, a few have metal attachments, and many have no attachments at all. Two spurs are preserved in plastic, zip-lock bags and are labeled "Mountain Man" and "Sage Brushers", while the rest are preserved in brown paper. Original numbering has been preserved when available. Items are numbered 001-043 as some numbers have an item "a" and "b". Als0, there is an item 014b (orignal numbering) but no item 014a.
The Nelson Story III Speech dubbed “Memories of the Good Old Days” was delivered to the Flying Farmers organization on October 4, 1963. Story describes the history of aviation in the Gallatin Valley and elsewhere in Montana. Aviators mentioned include Bert Mooney, John Fox, Red Morrison and Bill Fahrner.
The Don Binkowski Papers consist of research materials dealing with Philetus W. Norris, Binkowski's literary work, and personal correspondence. Most of the papers pertain to research conducted by Binkowski in preparation for his 1995 publication, Col P. W. Norris: Yellowstone's Greatest Superintendent. The research notes collected by Binkowski contain mostly letters and periodical articles that he transcribed from source materials. Also included in these papers are versions of the Norris biography and a copy of Binkowski's earlier article, "From Prairie Mound to Yellowstone National Park."
The Ernest McCollum Diaries consist of volumes completed for each year from 1908 through 1952. The volumes for 1910 and 1925 are missing. The entries are quite brief, describing McCollum's experiences as a rancher and homesteader in Musselshell County and Rosebud County. A picture album and some pen and ink sketches created by McCollum are included on the microfilm.
The Gene Quaw Collection consists of a autographed tribute album, some printed items, and 106 black and white photographs taken of Quaw, his band members, and friends in Yellowstone National Park, most of which are circa 1921-1922. The printed materials in the collection consist of a copy of Yellowstone, along with a mimeograph lyric sheet for the song dated March 4,1947, a business card for Quaw as pianist for the "Lone Star Trio" at Old Faithful Inn, and a program for a formal recital at Mammoth Hot Springs, September 11, 1921. The original hand carved wooden cover for the autographed tribute album has been retained with the collection.
The Millard Peterson Scrapbook contains memorabilia, photographs, pamphlets and other documents collected by Peterson while a student at Montana State College from 1919 to 1923. 
The Yellowstone National Park Research Library and Archives Collections consists of photocopies of original and transcribed manuscript holdings maintained by the Yellowstone National Park Research Library and Archives.
The Dave Hughes Papers consists primarily of author proofs, drafts, research notes, and unpublished works written by Dave Hughes. Dave Hughes is the author of over 20 books on fly fishing as well as the author of fly fishing articles published in well respected fly fishing magazines.
The Mamie Ader Johnson Letter relates the life she is leading on the homestead. Topics include rending lard, butchering hogs, the crops, activities, visits, having a radio, and local gossip.
The Robert G. Dunbar Papers consist of research materials that include copies of journal articles, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, maps, syllabi, bibliographies, assorted transcriptions of research, topical notes on history organized by places, periods and subjects, class lecture outlines, and lecture notes from both his personal college courses and courses taught during his teaching career. Also included are papers compiled for publications, speeches, and research on agricultural history, papers related to his activities on the Curriculum and Instruction Committee, as Director for the Center for Inter-Cultural Affairs, founder of the International Studies Center, establishment of a Peace Corps program (Ecuador/Heifer), and the International Farm Youth Exchange program. Other materials include transcripts of various reviews, and correspondence from Dunbar's affiliation with organizing the Great Plains Foundation and The Montana Farmers Union. Additionally there are copies of some publications, miscellaneous files including one on the Dead Sea Scrolls and ephemera.
The Stuart E. Knapp salmon poisoning research collection consists of manuscripts, journal articles, and personal correspondence documenting Dr. Stuart E. Knapp's research on salmon poisoning. The bulk of Knapp's research files pertain directly to the evolution of study of the trematode Nanophyetus Salmoncola by Knapp, his contemporaries, and predecessors. They consist of handwritten notes taken while observing test subjects, results of testing, correspondence, and typewritten manuscript journal articles.
The MSU--Bozeman Faculty Biographies contains faculty biographical files containing newspaper clippings, press releases, notes, and reminiscences that document biographical information on former and current faculty members between the early 1960s and the early 1990s.
The Park Poultry Producers Association Records consists of financial records; order sheets; sales records; producer contracts; correspondence; minutes (1923-1924); articles of incorporation and association; bylaws; membership lists; materials from U.S. Dept. of Agriculture giving instructions for killing, dressing, and shipping turkeys; and sales lists (1930-1937) for the Northwest Turkey Growers Association. Persons represented include Earl Sexton and John Nickelson, association managers in the 1930s.
The Zales N. Ecton Papers contains information pertaining to Ecton's position as a U.S. Senator. In general, the collection covers political issues from 1947-1953 at a state and national level. The topics range from correspondence, reclamation, communism and socialism, agriculture and the Brannon plan, and political opposition.
The Granite-BiMetallic Consolidated Mining Company Records consists of records from the Granite Mountain Mining Company followed by records of the Granite-BiMetallic Consolidated Mining Company and some materials of T. H. Kleinschmidt, a mine investor. The papers include copy ledger books; letter and account copy files; a time book; expense bills and receipts from suppliers and shippers; survey information; records of smelting, shipping and purchases of the mined ores; leases, bids, agreements and stockholder communications and some miscellaneous post cards and pay check stubs.
The MSU Theatre collection consists of materials dealing with specific productions, such as scripts, photographs, playbills, advertisements and other documentation. Other materials deal with the history of the general administration of the theatre program or its physical setting on campus.
The Hayne family papers consist of Jack Hayne's research files, records of the Dupuyer Social Club and community, Harriet's political papers, family correspondence, family personal papers, photograph and scrapbook albums, and loose photographs.
The Three Forks Lewis and Clark Observances Collection consists of one anonymous notebook, with typed leaves pasted on its pages that describes the origins of the Bert Hansen pageant, names of early actors, and some incidents which occurred during its 1950s-era performances. Also included are two separate bound copies of photocopied pageant scripts written by Bert Hansen are in the collection. Completing the collection are a folder of newspaper clippings describing the pageant, and another containing broadsides and programs from Lewis and Clark expedition observances from 1945 through the 1950s.
The Willard Harris Oral History includes a reel of audio taped oral history and a typed copy of the transcription of the tape. Subjects: Manhattan, Logan, the Holland Settlement and other nearby communities; companies and industries including the Manhattan Malting Company and malt plant, the Montana Pulp and Paper Company and pulp mill, flour mills, cement plant and Ideal Cement; the earthquake of 1925; the Gallatin Female Seminary; the water supply; and prominent community leaders and businessmen.
The Gallatin County, Montana, Sheriff's Office Records include logbooks related to the criminal and law enforcement duties of the sheriff's office. Included in the collection are sheriff's daybooks which contain information pertaining to court transactions, a logbook of incoming telephone calls to the office, a logbook recording the mileage accumulated during criminal investigations, and receipt books of monetary transactions of the sheriff's office. Other records within the collection pertain to the duties of the sheriff's office within the community. These records include receipts of cattle sales, cattle inspection certificates, registration of firearms, and bounty certificates for the killing of predator animals for the protection of livestock.
The Phi Kappa Phi - Montana State college Chapter Records consist of presidential records, membership lists and correspondence, records of awards programs and financial transactions. The records span the years 1921-1957.
The Florence Penwell papers consist of a sample of wallpaper from the Penwell home in Gallatin County and a handwritten schedule likely for the Methodist Church, ca. 1880s. The collection also includes the following four handwritten letters sent to Florence Penwell from Methodist minister William Wesley Van Orsdel in Havre, "Addie" in Bozeman, C. W. Hill of White Sulphur Springs, and Esther [Penwell?] of Illinois. Topics include church work travels, arranging visits, family news, and genealogy information.
The John Stands In Timber interview is an original handwritten transcription of a conversation between Margot Liberty and John Stands in Timber. The conversations handwritten notes concerns the ages and actions of various Cheyenne men who had either participated in the Custer battle or other incidents of tribal history.
The William F. Brewer Papers consist of correspondence, minutes, publications, and other printed or mimeographed material pertaining to the Montana Education Association, as well as two typewritten reports from Brewer regarding his experiences at the Montana Education Association meetings.
The Gallatin County Bicentennial Oral History Project Collection consists of eighty-three tape recorded interviews with senior citizens of Bozeman and Gallatin County. The topics cover a wide variety of historical subjects including: agriculture, amusements, business, industry, merchants, churches, communications, education, electrical power, ethnic groups, the Depression, homemaking, immigrants, Native Americans, medicine, Montana State College, organizations, frontier and pioneer life, politics and government, prominent families, religion, social life and customs, Spanish American War, transportation, weather and natural disasters, World War I, and World War II. Places mentioned Belgrade, Bozeman, Bridger Canyon, Chestnut, Churchill, Gallatin Canyon, Manhattan, Salesville, Springhill, Three Forks, and Yellowstone National Park.
The Department of Agricultural Economics Research Project Records consist of files that document the activities of various personnel in surveying and interpreting agricultural development in Montana. The subjects of the various projects include rural housing, financing, dairy operations, rural electrification, meat trade, irrigation, and taxation.
The Rodger G. Kent, Ike Irish, the Placer Miner essay in describes Kent relatives and their encounters with Irish, a description of Irish’s mining techniques, and a vivid retelling of a hand-to-hand fight with a black bear that Irish survived.
The Ed C. Brown Papers pertain to Brown's farming activities including: crops planted and prices; dairy cattle photos and breeding records; diaries of daily activities and weather; Huntley Project Irrigation District maps; reminiscence of working on the U Cross Ranch near Buffalo, Wyoming in the 1890s.
The Sylvester Nemes Papers consists of research, notes, drafts and manuscripts of Nemes' books, both his published works on fly fishing, as well as two unpublished works of historical fiction. Also included in the collection are correspondence, a brief biography, miscellaneous personal records, his obituary, business and professional records, photographs, negatives, memorabilia, and slides.
The Wylie Permanent Camping Company Yellowstone Lake Tourist Register dates from June 18, 1904 through September 10, 1909. The ledger contains the signatures of guests who stayed at the facility. The first thirty-six pages of the ledger were used as a scrapbook by a previous owner; what remains of the newspaper and magazine clipping fragments does not entirely obscure the handwritten entries.
The Sanford Daniel Reed Diary consists of brief daily notations of the wagon journey from Peoria, Illinois on April 14, 1864 and stops at Lawrence, Kansas on April 29, 1864. The diary describes rather the weather, road and camping conditions as he journeyed across southern Iowa and northwest Missouri.
The F. Jay Haynes Papers consist of correspondence and business records related to F. Jay Haynes's photography and transportation companies. Includes negative registers 1881-1891 and account books; bills and statements 1881-1882, supply orders 1902; photograph customer orders 1886-1887; business correspondence 1876-1914; promissory notes 1879-1899. Haynes Palace Car records include negative registers 1895-1896. Also includes records relating to Yellowstone National Park business and business records from Monida and Yellowstone and Yellowstone-Western stage companies, and the Cody-Sylvan Pass Motor Company.
The William Merriam Cobleigh Papers consist mainly on his correspondence with his parents and Esther Rose Cooley from 1894 to 1901. Topics include: experiences at Montana Agricultural College at Bozeman and the College of Montana at Deer Lodge; social life and customs in Bozeman during the turn of the century; courtship and marriage. Newspaper clippings, various programs from recitals he attended, photographs, and pamphlets have been retained with the letters. A few picture of friends and relatives from California and some place cards are also included. The collection is arranged by topically arranged series.
The Jessie Louise Donaldson-Anne Banks Papers consist of originals and copies of transcriptions, a set of audio tapes; rough drafts of an autobiography; research notes; drafts of published and unpublished stories; royalty papers; legal agreements; correspondence with publishers, writers, friends and colleagues; color illustrations; pencil drawings; newspaper clippings; photographs; student papers and memorabilia.
The W. R. Plew Architectural Drawings contains architectural drawings of a building "to be built by Mrs. E. Broox Martin" at Beall Park, Bozeman. Building is presently known as Beall Park Arts Center.
The Beryl Stith papers consists of research and paste-up masters for her book Terry Does Exist and her family's personal and business papers. Included are: fragments of original correspondence from John W. Stith and his wife Cornelia; business communications pertaining to Stith's real estate, insurance, and hardware operations; Terry school board transactions, Justice of the Peace case documents; Custer County Commissioner correspondence; miscellaneous invoices, receipts, and business letters. Fifty original photographs of Stith family members, friends, and Terry, Montana are also included.
The William H. Storrs Diary (January 21, 1862-September 27, 1864) sporadically covers his activities preceding his 1862 enlistment through his 1864 march from Little Rock to Pocahontas, Arkansas. Important events discussed in the entries include detailed description of the battle of Shiloh, Tennessee, the advance on Corinth, Mississippi, and return to Memphis, Tennessee in the spring of 1862. The 1863 march from Helena, Arkansas to Little Rock and subsequent occupation of Little Rock are also described with some detail. Entries concern troop movements, weather, fellow staff officers of the 77th and camp conditions. Other Arkansas locations mentioned in the diary include DuVall's Bluff and Brownsville.
The Henry F. Keyes Photograph Album and Diary contains snapshots and journal entries taken by Keyes taken during a hike through southwest Montana. The album contains images of the steamship North Land, Mackinac Island, the North Dakota Badlands, Bozeman, Bridger Canyon, Gallatin Canyon, Lone Peak, Virginia City, the Red Rock valley, Sawtell's Ranch at Henry's Lake, Upper Geyser Basin, and Lake Yellowstone. People pictured are Keyes and his companions, Edward C. Alderson, Jack Bean, and Felix G. White. The diary entries make note of the scenery, the content of his meals, and even the time of day when certain described events occurred. Many of his fellow students are mentioned, and geographic details and wildlife sightings recorded.
The Muir Family Papers include: ranch account books of Joseph Muir's 1915-1927; ranch account books and papers of Nick Muir's 1933-1956; copies of photographs and negatives of the ranch operation near Harlowton, Montana, family members, and sheep.
The Wallace Stegner Research Collection consists of periodicals and newspapers (including clippings) by and about Wallace Stegner throughout his prolific writing career. Besides his large body of monographic works, he wrote fictional short stories; accounts based on his childhood in the west; articles on writing, conservation, western U.S. history, Mormons, the wilderness, and politics (primarily of the west and its future).
Organization formed in response to a number of increasing threats to the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem in the western United States an area which spans 20 million acres and extends into three states (Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana). The collection contains records that track both the group's founding and the arc of its environmental campaigns over three decades, and largely comprises administrative, planning, and research documents. A large number of still photos, audio, and moving images are also part of the collection.
The Merrill G. Burlingame Papers are primarily research files that reflect Burlingame's lifelong interest in the history of Montana and the American West. Subjects represented are: the history of Bozeman and Gallatin County, Montana and associated individuals; the history of Montana State University and associated individuals; the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ); Captain Gustavus C. Doane, Second U.S. Cavalry; Montana Native Americans. There is also a small group of personal papers containing familial correspondence and genealogical information on the Burlingame family. Original documents created or collected by the William W. Alderson family, Gustavus C. Doane, and Harriette Cushman are also part of the Burlingame papers.
The Hazel Christiansen Papers consist of typed transcriptions or photocopies of correspondence, notes, and manuscripts dealing with the history of Hardin and Big Horn County, Montana, along with Crow Indians, forts, battles, churches, libraries, schools, and local activities.
The Enoch Hodson Papers consist primarily of daybooks and ledgers for the operations of Hodson's Mill and general store. Also included is a time book for payment of his employees from June of 1887 to March 1890. Also included are miscellaneous business papers includes a receipt for membership in the knights of Pythias, a liquor sales ad, a doorplate from William and Hoyt, and bills to some customers.
The Datus C. Proper Papers consist of journals, correspondence, family history documents, literary manuscript drafts, galley proofs, research notes, publisher correspondence, photographs and other memorabilia which document Proper's life as a student, United States Foreign Service officer, and outdoor writer. The subjects of Proper's writings encompass the full spectrum of fly fishing for trout, from stream side entomology to the ethics of catch and release angling. Hunting, particularly pheasant hunting and the training of dogs for the sport, is another subject heavily represented.
The Willson and Rich Records consist of three day books and one ledger which document the firm's conception in Canton, New York through the relocation of the enterprise to Bozeman in 1866 and its operation up to 1871. Information in the records includes: sales transactions along the overland journey to Montana; expenses and sales during the first five years of the business; documentation of the purchases of many individuals prominent in the early history of Bozeman.
The J.G. Link and Company Records consist of photographic images of various building projects, Elmer F. Link’s personal diaries, routine office files and project files. The photographs are either images of the building themselves or of drawings. The diaries are day records of Elmer F. Link. The office files document the day to day operation of the firm, mostly for its Billings office. The project files are records specifically related to the buildings the firm was commissioned to design and construct.
The Winifred B. Considine Diaries are typed transcripts that concern her activities on the Considine ranch, including her interests in horticulture and gardening.
The Lillian E. H. Culver Papers consist of letters, short stories, and bank statements. The materials provide impressions of the lifestyle of the area including work, social life, and problems due to climate and isolation. The file of short stories written by Lillian Culver cover diverse topics. The most revealing story was about homestead legal problems.
The Early Travel in Montana Essay is an original student paper created by Mary Kirk for Professor Helen Brewer’s American history class at Montana College of Agricultural and Mechanical Arts. Kirk’s essay is the finished product of interviews with several Bozeman, Montana pioneers on pioneer transportation methods. Various transportation methods include mule trains, steamboat, wagons, ox cart, and stagecoach. Locales include the Bozeman Trail, Bozeman, Crow Agency, Gallatin County, Hunter’s Hot Springs, Fort Benton, and Virginia City.
John Young was assigned to the Blackfeet Indian Agency in 1876 and served through 1883 when a famine killed a number of the Indian residents. His administration was controversial, with accusations surfacing that he had misappropriated funds earmarked for the Indians and gave choice employment positions to relatives. One relative in particular was his daughter, Lucy ("Dotie") Young Ford, who joined her father during the summer of 1877 as a schoolteacher. She was the wife of Edward Lloyd Ford, a publisher, born in Oswestry, Shropshire, England. Ford had come to New York in his early youth and was a Civil War veteran, having served in the Union Army. In 1867 he became a partner in the newly established publishing house of J. B. Ford and Co., whose major periodical publication was the Christian Union. He invented and patented folding combinations, folding and pasting apparatus, and devices for printing two sheets simultaneously, and for folding and pasting one within the other.
William H. Tracy was born in Ithaca, New York in 1838. He left home at age 19 and lived in Denver, Colorado where he served briefly in the Home Guard regiment of the Colorado Volunteers during the Civil War. Tracy first came to the Gallatin Valley in 1863 and helped found the city of Bozeman in 1864. In April of 1869, Tracy married Sarah Jane Bessey in Pecatonica, Illinois, together returning to Montana in May of that year. The Tracy's settled on Main Street taking land claims throughout the area. Mr. Tracy employed himself as a farmer and real estate agent, as well as the proprietor of an early brick yard, freighting business, and feed and seed store, the latter enterprise named "W.H. Tracy and Company." The Tracy's had six children, four of whom survived to adulthood: Elmer, Albert, Frank S., and Edna B., the donor of this collection. Mr. Tracy died in an accident in 1908 and Mrs. Tracy died eight years later on October 19, 1916.
Laura Mandercheide Brown was born in Sioux City, Iowa, on 25 November 1868. She came to the Miles City, Mont., area with her parents in 1878. She received her education from the Mary Baldwin Seminary in Virginia and began teaching in Montana in 1886. She married John I. Zook on 29 October 1889. The couple had one son, Frederick, who was born in 1895. John Zook died in 1896, leaving Laura and her infant son. She campaigned for and was elected county superintendent of schools in 1896, a post she retained intermittently for several years. In 1906 Laura Zook orchestrated the construction of the Miles City public library with the financial help of the Carnegie Foundation. For thirty-six years she remained as an administrator and librarian, retiring in 1943. Laura Zook died on 9 May 1944.
Jacqueline Jo Loesel was an employee for Hamilton Stores at Fishing Bridge fountain and curio shop in Yellowstone National Park during the summer of 1971 and made a brief visit the following year on August 1-2, 1972. Her diary entries on the pages for June 10 through September 1 include both her 1971 working summer and her visit the following year. Other entries on the same pages, made in 1973 and 1974 list unrelated activities such as television programs and movies watched by Loesel.
Charles H. Barstow was born in Massachusetts sometime around 1850 and came west after his father died. He first traveled to Wichita, Kansas, but relocated to Montana after the summer of 1876. He became the chief clerk for the government agent at the Crow Indian reservation around 1878 and held the position for twenty years. Barstow became an active collector of Crow artifacts and is credited with encouraging members of the tribe to create "ledger art" drawings to preserve their history and culture. He was married to Susan Elizabeth Chandler, and the couple had at least one daughter, Elizabeth. Barstow died in Billings, Montana in February, 1908.
Victor E. George was born on June 6, 1893 in Carbon County, Montana. He grew up on his parents' ranch near the present day town of Roscoe, Montana and attended the Billings Polytechnic Institute where he earned a teaching certificate in 1911. That year George began teaching school in rural Carbon and Stillwater Counties, but he left the profession after five years to resume ranching full time. He married Margaret Ryan on December 31, 1931 and the couple had four daughters. In 1950, George retired from ranching and moved to Billings, Montana where he worked in retail sales and real estate. He died in 1980 at his home in Billings.
Harry B. Mitchell was a member of the Junior Chamber of Commerce (Jaycees) from Great Falls, Montana. In the fall of 1962, he became the co-chairman of the Legislative Committee for the Montana State Jaycees. He spent the next 2 years promoting the protection of the natural waterways of Montana, especially fishing habitat, from damage by road construction and hydraulic activities. The Jaycees created a Conservation Committee in 1963 and Mitchell served as its chair. He was honored for his work with a 1963 American Motors Company Non-professional Conservation Award.
In the late 1880s, a group of wealthy New York and Brooklyn maltster became interested in the farming opportunities in Gallatin County. By 1891 they bought 13,000 acres of land next to Manhattan and planted barley. The newly created Manhattan Malting Company was ran by an elite force from back east. Henry Altenbrand, Sr., a wealthy maltster from New York, was named president; Jacob Rupert, vice-president, owned the largest brewery in the world; and George Kinkel, Jr., son of the owner of the New York Yankees, was manager. These men were so influential that in 1891 they had the name of the town changed from Moreland to Manhattan after the Democratic Manhattan Club in New York where most of the stockholders were members. The company quickly grew. By 1892 the first elevator was completed which had a holding capacity of 275,000 bushels of barley. The malting plant was finished a year later and could hold an additional 250,000 bushels. The company purchased a Jacob Price Field Locomotive steam plow in order to farm its vast lands. This plow was the first of its type used in Montana and could plow forty acres a day. The company was building worldwide? fame as well when its first brewmaster, Louis DeKregnasis's product was famed across the country and was especially liked in Germany. In 1905 the Manhattan Malting Company sold its land to the Manhattan (Ranching) Company. The malting company continued to grow and in 1914 won the award for best malted barley by the Pabst Brewing Company in Milwaukee. The company could not, however, overcome prohibition. The plant closed early in 1915 when Idaho, Oregon and Washington became dry states. The company was forced out of business in 1919 when Montana passed prohibition on 1 January 1919. The malt house was condemned after the earthquake of 1925, but the farm houses of the company are still standing today and are occupied. Many of the older citizens of Manhattan still refer to the buildings as Number One and Number Two, as the malting company designated them. Harry Altenbrand, Jr. was the Manhattan Malting Company manager from 1905 until it closed. His house is now the Masonic Temple in Manhattan.
Merrill G. Burlingame (1901-1994) was a professor of history at Montana State University and an avid collector of historical documents for his own research. Many times during his career he donated some of the material he had collected to various institutions such as the Museum of the Rockies, the Montana Historical Society, and Montana State University. With these donations, Burlingame would sometimes provide provenance information, but just as often not, as is the case with "The History of a Bridle: A True Story and Confession of Road Agents and Horse Thieves in Montana." A 45 page handwritten manuscript done in pencil on highly acidic paper, "The History of a Bridle," came into Burlingame's possession sometime around 1955. He considered the essay important enough to engage Mrs. Rosemary S. Barnett to transcribe the document that year, but by the time he donated the piece to MSU Burlingame provided no more information other than the identity of the typist. As a result the MSU library staff erroneously listed Mrs. Barnett as the author when the essay was described in the public access catalog. The original manuscript itself could possibly be a transcription from another source, but the handwriting does not appear to be Burlingame's and there are no clues as to where such a source might have been consulted.
Orson Nixon Newman (1835-1921) was born in Orleans County, New York. After completing his education he settled in Michigan where he operated a lumbering business. In 1863, he arrived in Bannack, Montana Territory where he worked briefly in mining before taking up farming in the Madison Valley. He and his family left for California in 1869 and then returned to Montana in 1875 where they lived briefly in Gallatin County. The Newman family moved again in 1878 to Coulson in the Yellowstone Valley and again took up farming. The location of their farm was about two and one half miles from the depot at Billings, and during the 1880s they sold garden truck to W.A. Perry, the purchasing agent for the newly constructed Northern Pacific railway. The Newman farm was near a ford on the river and many Indians camped near the area as a result. In this context, Orson met Plenty Coups with whom he maintained a long friendship. In 1858 Newman married Elizabeth Matilda Tripp and the couple had 11 children: Burton Lyon; Asa Dow; Edwin M.; William Marvin; Albert Alonzo; Charles Henry; Abe Benton; Sarah Jane, and Mary A. Newman. Mary married William J. Scott, an early resident of Billings and the owner of several businesses in the city during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Their son, William N. Scott, is the donor of these papers.
The Queer Straight Alliance at Montana State University (MSU) was founded in March 1977, by group president, Christopher Silberhorn. The student group was first organized under the name LAMBDA Gay Alliance. The Queer Straight Alliance provides a safe, friendly environment for the LGBTQ+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and other identities) members, as well as creating political awareness, social activities, and informaation to the community of MSU. Other names the organization has been known by include Q-MSU and Gay Straight Alliance.
The larger national organization, LAMBDA Legal (LAMBDA Legal Defense and Education Fund), was founded by a group of volunteer lawyers when Attorney William J. Thom won a 1973 court case, gaining the right to found LAMBDA as a legal nonprofit organization in New York. By supporting efforts in impact litigation, societal education, and public policy reform, LAMBDA Legal stills works today to advance the civil rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender communities as well as those with HIV/AIDS. LAMBDA Legal is responsible for winning several landmark cases such as Taylor vs. Rice in 2012 since their inception.
Margaret Patten was born on January 30, 1903 in Helena, Montana to Lawyer George Patten and his wife Eleanor Patten. Margaret grew up in Bozeman with her two-younger sister, Mary who was 2 to 3 years younger, and Eleanor who was about 10 years younger than Margaret. Then in 1930 she moved to Chicago where she lived in a boarding house and had the occupation of stenographer. She then passed away on January 31, 1961 and was buried in Sunset Hills Cemetery in Bozeman, Montana.
Louisa Stone was born on March 17, 1838 in Missouri. She married Samuel King and the couple had 11 children. In 1864 the King family moved to Alder Gulch, Montana, and afterwards to the outskirts of Bozeman where Samuel died in 1873. In April 1875 Louisa married Mark Burton and the couple lived on the King property until Mark's death in 1883. In partnership with her son, Granville A. King, Louisa rented pasture at her farm to area stockgrowers and sold garden produce. She died on January 8, 1913.
Frank L. Benepe came to Bozeman, Montana in 1877. After teaching for two years, he established the Benepe and Davidson Company in 1879. His first business venture, Benepe quickly became a primary supplier of agricultural implements and farm machinery for the entire region. By 1883, Benepe purchased John B. Davidson's interest in the business. The Bozeman Implement, Harness and Carriage Company was organized by Benepe in 1890. Two years later, the name was changed to Benepe-Owenhouse Company to reflect a partnership with E. J. Owenhouse. Other business interests included extensive grain operations throughout the Gallatin valley. By the end of the nineteenth century it is reported that Benepe bought and sold more grain than any other person in the county. His vast grain operations briefly included a controlling interest in the Belgrade Grain and Produce Company. Outside of his public business ventures, Benepe owned a large grain and stock ranch in Gallatin Valley and a stock farm in Bozeman where he raised Hereford cattle. Benepe served as mayor of Bozeman for two terms, served as a member of the Free and Accepted Masons, and was the director of the Bozeman Silver Cornet Band throughout the late 1880s. In 1882 Benepe married Nettie Trent of Kansas. Together the couple had five children; Byron who died at 18 months, Frank L. Jr., Ellen E., Genevieve A., and Lucien.
Lora May Richter was born in Virginia City, Colorado in April, 1863 and moved to Virginia City, Montana in 1864. Her father Chris was a partner in the Gilbert-Richter Brewery in Virginia City and also had a ranch on South Meadow Creek in the Madison Valley. In 1887 she married Thomas H. Vincent and they ranched in the Madison Valley all of their lives. Lora Richter Vincent died in 1948.
Adrien Leroy Hess was born on January 18, 1908 in Johnson County, Missouri. He earned a bachelor of science degree in mathematics from Missouri Valley College in 1930, a bachelor’s degree in education from the Central Missouri State College in 1932, a master’s degree in Mathematics from the University of Montana in 1941, and a doctorate in mathematics from the University of Wisconsin in 1954. He taught math and coached high school at the Belfry and Fort Benton high schools prior to joining the mathematics department at Montana State College, Bozeman in 1945 and remained there until his retirement in 1972. He was an avid promoter of high school science students in Montana and founded the Montana Science Talent Search in 1947. Hess served as a judge in numerous district science fairs in Montana during his career and a scholarship was established in his name by the Montana Council of Teachers of Mathematics. Dr. Hess died in Bozeman on May 22, 1994.
Ethel Victoria Bean was born in Forsyth, Montana on April 25, 1890, the third of seven children born to Maynard "Dobbs" Solomon Bean Sr. She attended high school in Bridger and Polytechnic Institute, and taught in rural school. She married John Loy Storm in 1915 and they had two children. She died in Polson, Montana on April 19, 1980. Her father, Maynard S. Bean, was born in Gonzales County, Texas on September 11, 1865 and came to eastern Montana in 1884, working as a ranch hand along the Tongue River near the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation. He eventually established his own ranch in Carbon County where he died on February 28, 1942.
Harry Clebourne James (1896-1978) was a Canadian native who settled in Los Angeles, California in 1913. He became a writer and educator, opening his own private school for boys called the Trailfinders which stressed outdoors activities. James became friends with James Willard Schultz sometime in the 1920s and, following Schultz's death, continued his contacts with Schultz's wife, Jessica Donaldson Schultz. After he had written several books on American Indians, James attempted to write a definitive biography of Schultz in the 1970s. Collaborating with Jessica, James began gathering material from Harvard University, Montana State University, and many other sources for the work. His failing eyesight slowed his progress in 1977, and James died before completing the book. Warren Leonard Hanna eventually published a biography of Schultz based in part on the James manuscript in 1986 with the University of Oklahoma Press.
The Greater Yellowstone Coalition (GYC) was founded in 1983 with a mission to protect the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem for current and future generations. The group’s vision is a healthy and intact Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem where critical lands and waters are adequately protected; wildlife is managed in a thoughtful, sustainable manner; and a strong, diverse base of support is working to conserve this special place as part of a larger, connected Northern Rocky Mountain Region. The group supports policies which will protect the environmental integrity of Yellowstone National Park and maintain to the highest possible extent the natural condition of the lands surrounding Yellowstone which together with the park comprise the Great Yellowstone Ecosystem. They are a nationally known advocate for the idea that ecosystem level sustainability and science should guide the management of the region’s public and private lands. States that are a part of this coalition include Montana, Wyoming, and Idaho. Issues that the GYC takes on include environmental impacts, as well as conservations battles to preserve the Yellowstone National Park ecosystem and the areas that surround it. The GYC covers more than 20 million acres, three states, and Yellowstone National Park.
Rick Reese became involved in Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem issues circa 1980. In 1983, he became the founding president of the GYC. Reese grew up in Salt Lake City, Utah before moving to Montana with his family. After moving to Helena in 1970, Reese started a job as an assistant professor of political science at Carroll College. As a founding member and president of GYC, Reese assisted in creating and building a solid foundation for the coalition. His work and contributions with the GYC lasted beyond his three years as president. In subsequent years he served as Deputy Director of the State Commission on Local Government, Executive Secretary to the Montana Board of Public Education, and was director of the Yellowstone Institute. Reese is also a noted alpinist and known for his part in a 1967 rescue effort in the Grand Teton which was highlighted in documentary “The Grand Rescue”.
Marie Peterson MacDonald was born in 1913 at Great Falls, Montana. She graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1936 and married Alexander C. MacDonald in 1941. Marie lived in Glendive, Montana for part of her life and she served on the city council and as the city librarian from 1964 to 1974. She wrote two books: Glendive; the History of a Montana Town (1968) and After Barbed Wire; a Pictorial History of the Homestead Rush into the Northern Great Plains, 1900-1919 (1963). For the latter work she collaborated with the Glendive chapter of the American Association of University Women to produce a questionnaire form that was distributed to area homesteader families. The completed forms were later deposited in the Frontier Gateway Museum at Glendive. MacDonald moved to Lompoc, California after her retirement and died on July 24, 1988.
The Delta Kappa Gamma Society is an organization of women educators, which was founded by Dr. Annie Webb Blanton on May 11, 1929, at the Faculty Women's Club at the University of Texas at Austin. Montana State College established a local Delta Kappa Gamma Society Mu Chapter in the Student Union Building on October 29, 1948. This organization serves as a professional honor society of women educators. Members consist of classroom teachers, professors, administrators, and librarians with three or more years of experience. Selma Apman was elected the Mu Chapter's first President and they have held five meetings per year since 1945.
Henry LaDell Jenkins (Del Jenkins) was born in Farmington, Utah on August 26, 1880. When he was 15 years old, Del traveled to Yellowstone National Park with his father, Henry Evan Jenkins, where he began his career as a wagon driver for Shaw and Powell offering transportation for camping tourists. In 1898 when he was 18 Del began work for the Yellowstone and Monida Stage Company, driving stagecoaches to the west entrance of the Park and beyond. He continued to drive stagecoaches in the park until 1914 and in 1938 established a ranch near Jackson, Wyoming where he raised a family. Del Jenkins died in Jackson, Wyoming on November 16, 1977 at the age of 97.
Roy E. Huffman was born April 12, 1916 and raised on a wheat farm in Chouteau County, Montana. He attended rural schools and graduated from Highwood High School in 1932. He married Menga Herzog in 1939 and had three children. He received his B.S. in Agricultural Economics from Montana State College in 1938, his M.S. in Agricultural Economics from the University of Maryland in 1939 and his PhD in Agricultural Economics from the University of Wisconsin in 1952. He began his career as an Agricultural Economist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture during 1939-1942. In 1942 he started his work at Montana State College as an Instructor in Agricultural Economics. After serving in the U.S. Navy in World War II from 1943-1946 he returned to Montana State College as an Assistant Professor of Agricultural Economics and Economics,1946-1950; Associate Professor from 1950-1953; and from 1953 to 1958 he was Professor and Head of the Department of Agricultural Economic and Rural Sociology: Economics and Sociology. In 1958 he became the Dean of Agriculture and Director of the Agricultural Experiment Station. In 1965 he was appointed as the first Vice President for Research. He served in that capacity until his retirement in 1976. Concurrent with the Vice Presidency he was Executive Director, Endowment and Research Foundation (1965-1976); Director, Montana University Joint Water Resources Research Center (1965-1969, 1973-1974); and Acting Dean of Graduate Studies (1975-1976). Roy Huffman was a prolific writer with over 100 titles to his credit including the book Irrigation Development and Public Water Policy (Ronald Press, 1953) and research bulletins, journal papers, magazine articles, conference papers and monographs. He promoted the modernization of agriculture through wise land use, water conservation, irrigation and farm management techniques. He was a member of the American Agricultural Economics Assn., Western Agricultural Economics Assn., Agricultural History Society, American Association of University Professors, Soil Conservation Society of America, and several honor societies. Among many awards, he received the Montana State University Blue and Gold Award for Distinguished Service in 1975. Outside the university he has served as a consultant to federal, state and private agencies, notably the Missouri River Basin Planning and Columbia Basin Consulting Boards of the U.S. Dept. of Interior; he was a member of numerous governmental and professional councils and committees including the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges; and participated as a speaker or presenter of papers at many conferences and proceedings in both academic and commercial arenas. After his retirement in 1976, he was appointed a member of the Montana Board of Natural Resources and Conservation by Governor Thomas L. Judge and served from 1977-1981. An active member of the greater community, he promoted tours of Russia and China for People to People, was active with the Museum of the Rockies and local civic projects. Dr. Roy E. Huffman died at age 78 on November 10, 1994.
Thomas Brown Brook (1890-1966) was the son of a Nevada City gold miner who came to Montana in 1863. John Brook established a ranch on the Beaverhead River eight miles south of Twin Bridges, Montana in 1870. Thomas grew up on the ranch and attended local schools. He eventually graduated from the Gallatin County High School in Bozeman and earned a degree in Civil Engineering from Montana State College in 1913. After working on a ranch and serving in France during World War I, Thomas Brook returned to Twin Bridges where he worked as an electrician. As a hobby, Brook began taking photographs of various locations in and around Twin Bridges, and eventually engaged in copying historical photographs brought to him by various individuals. Before his death in 1966, Brook had completed a substantial collection of both original and copied photographs.
Joseph Henry "Joe" Rawlins was born at Crow Agency, Montana on July 13, 1920. He was a proud member of the Crow tribe and his name in their language was Shikaakiiche (Good Boy). Joe joined the military in World War II and served as a pilot in that conflict and also Korea. He attended the University of Montana and graduated with a geology degree, working thereafter as a consultant to many of the major gas, oil, and coal companies operating in eastern Montana. His office was in Billings, and much of his work was done in that area and the adjacent Crow reservation. Joe married Gladys Habener on March 10, 1947 and the couple had two sons. Joe Rawlins died on January 20, 1997.
Swiss-American zoologist and geologist. Professor of zoology and geology at Harvard University. Louis Agassiz was born in Môtier-en-Vuly, Switzerland. He studied at the universities of Zürich, Erlangen (Ph.D., 1829), Heidelberg, and Munich (M.D., 1830). Agassiz studied medicine briefly but turned to zoology, with a special interest in fishes and fossils, while studying under the French naturalist Cuvier. In 1832 he became professor of natural history at the University of Neuchâtel, Switzerland. During this period Agassiz published Recherches sur les poissons fossiles (5 vol. and atlas, 183344), various studies of fossil echinoderms and mollusks, and Étude sur les glaciers (1840), one of the first descriptions of glacial movements and glacial deposits. Agassiz arrived in the United States in 1846 and accepted the professorship of zoology and geology at Harvard University in 1848. Among his areas of interest were Amazonian ichthyology and deep-sea studies of the Pacific and Atlantic coasts of the United States. Agassiz was instrumental in founding the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University, in 1860.
Stanley Roland Davison was born May 6, 1911, in East Helena, Montana. He received a doctorate from the University of California and served in the Navy during World War II and Korea. Davison spent most of his academic career at Western Montana College in Dillon, Montana where he worked for thirty years. He wrote a number of articles on Montana history and received an award from the Daughters of the American Revolution for his contributions to Montana history, research, and study. He died on May 14, 1986.
James David Wood was born in 1841 at Mercer County, Missouri. In 1864 he traveled from Atchison, Kansas to Virginia City with a freight outfit, working his way as a mule herder. Once in Montana Territory, Wood tried his hand at mining and other jobs, eventually moving to Idaho to again engage in mining in the Leesburg area. During the Nez Perce war he was one of the first on the scene of the "Birch Creek Massacre," a freighting team that was killed by the Nez Perce in present day Clark County, Idaho. During the Bannock War of 1878 he was a participant in a fight involving a freight wagon team in the Lost River valley where a comrade, Jesse McCaleb, was killed. Wood became a successful businessman in Salt Lake City towards the end of his life, owning mining interests in Utah, Nevada, and Idaho, along with a mercantile operation in Salt Lake City itself. He died on January 17, 1909.
A.K. Best was born in 1933 in Iowa and currently resides in Colorado. Along with previously owning Front Range Anglers, Best is a prominent fly tier, angler, and angling author. Best published articles in magazines and journals such as Fly Rod and Reel, and Mid Atlantic Fly Fishing Guide, as well as writing several books including: A.K.’s Fly Box, Production Fly Tying, Fly Tying with A.K., Advanced Fly Tying, and Fly Fishing with A.K.
Oscar Peter Balgord was born on January 16, 1885. He homesteaded north of Lavina (Golden Valley County) Montana and married Emily Lang in 1911. Balgord eventually became a sales clerk and automobile dealer in Lavina and was elected to the Montana legislature as a representative from 1933 to 1939 and a senator from 1941 to 1966. He also served on the State Water Board and was a primary backer of the Deadman's Basin Water Project. The project consists of a diversion canal from the Musselshell River into a natural basin where an earthen dam forms a reservoir and two outlet canals provide irrigation water to users in Wheatland, Golden Valley, and Musselshell counties. The project was begun in 1934 by the federal government and completed in 1941 with the active involvement of the Montana State Water Conservation Board and other state agencies. Balgord considered his work on the project and statewide water policy to be his main legislative achievements before his death in Billings, Montana on October 30, 1974.
Gary Howells was a renowned designer and manufacturer of high-quality bamboo fly rods. He worked for Winston Rod Company until 1970 when he went out on his own as a rod builder. Because of high demand Gary limited rods to one per customer per year. He was also an avid angler who fished across the Western U.S. Canada, and South America. Gary won several Field and Stream awards for fish caught during the early 1960’s. Gary passed away on April 9, 2000 in Richmond, California.
Mary Irene Watkins was born in Harrison, Montana on September 17, 1880. She married Perry A. Thatcher in 1930 and thereafter routinely referred to herself as Irene Thatcher. She moved to Spokane, Washington around 1922 where she operated a hotel until 1947. That year she moved back to Bozeman, Montana where she was active in several heritage organizations such as the Daughters of the American Revolution, the Sons and Daughters of Montana Pioneers, and the Montana Huguenots Society. She died on December 14, 1966.
The Montana Territorial Centennial Commission was created by the legislature in 1961 for "the sole purpose of providing a dignified, significant celebration during the full year of 1964 commemorating creation of the territory as well as honoring 75 years of statehood by and for the people of Montana." The Montana Centennial Train, organized by Howard Kelsey, was equipped with four exhibit cars, traveled through Montana in February 1964, and then in the spring journeyed to New York City where it was on display in the Montana Pavilion of the World's Fair for two years, providing Montana media exposure and publicity that would be felt for many years. Among the 300 people who signed up to ride the train was Irene Thatcher.
Max Worthington was born Oct 7, 1909 in Billings, Montana. He was a star athlete at Billings High School in both football and basketball. He started his college career at Montana State College (now Montana State University, Bozeman) in the fall of 1927. He continued his football and basketball careers from his freshman year, most notably as a member of the Montana State "Golden Bobcats" basketball team. In 1932, he graduated with a bachelor's degree in Physical Education. He took a job as a coach and teacher in Shelby, Montana from 1932 - 1938. In 1933, he married Dorothy Douglas of Wisdom, Montana, and they had one son, Douglas. In 1938, he moved to Helena High School, where in 1942 he became Director of Athletics. In 1943, he joined the U.S. Navy and served in the Pacific Theater. After the war, he joined the Montana State College faculty in 1946 as Assistant Professor of Physical Education and Assistant Football Coach and Basketball Coach. In 1948, he became the Associate Director of Public Service, and in 1950, the Secretary of the Alumni Association. In 1964, he was appointed Dean of Student Affairs and Service, a post he held until his retirement in 1973. As Dean of Students Emeritus, Max lived in Bozeman and continued to support the athletic events of the Bobcats and other university programs until his death in 2003.
Merrill G. Burlingame (1901-1994) was a history professor at Montana State University. In 1956 the law firm of Wilkinson, Cragun, Barker and Hawkins retained his services as a historical researcher for their litigation against the United States government on behalf of Montana's Blackfeet tribe. Burlingame assisted the firm by gathering pertinent materials from his research. By the summer of 1975, the firm was known as Wilkinson, Cragun and Barker and they asked Burlingame, in his capacity as their historical advisor, to give his advice and criticism of research materials they planned to use in a hearing before the United States Indian Claims Commission.
Julius Lehrkind was a German immigrant who came to America in 1860. He opened a brewery in Davenport, Iowa, with his brother, Fred. There he married Emelie Lambach and had six children. Fred married Emelie's sister, Bertha, and had four children. Fred and Bertha died young, so Julius and Emelie took charge of their children. Emelie died in 1897. Julius married Emelie's niece, Lina Lambach, in 1899 and they had a son. Julius died in 1922. Julius sold his brewery in Iowa and moved to Bozeman in March 1895, bringing his extended family and a crew of experienced brewers with him. He bought the Spieth and Krug Brewery that same year, moved it to the north end of town, and renamed it the Bozeman Brewery. During Prohibition, the Lehrkinds ran the Lehrkind Coal and Pure Ice Company out of the building and had branch operations in Livingston, Montana to which most of the records in this collection pertain.
Wallis Huidekoper was born in Germantown, Pennsylvania, on February 2, 1870. His father was Henry Shippen Huidekoper, a Major General in the Pennsylvania National Guard and a former Philadelphia postmaster. As a sixteen-year-old, Wallis spent a summer vacation on his cousin A.C. Huidekoper's ranch in North Dakota. After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania in 1891, Huidekoper returned to his cousin's ranch, where he worked as a horse wrangler. In 1906 he left the North Dakota ranch and bought a ranch on the eastern slope of the Crazy Mountains in Montana. This ranch eventually grew to 33,280 acres on the American Fork of the Musselshell River. Huidekoper served in Puerto Rico during the Spanish American War. During World War I, he served in the Aviation Section of the Signal Corps, and rose to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. In addition to his ranching and military careers, Huidekoper was a book collector, a historical writer, and a collector of Charles M. Russell art. He donated his "little ranch," a 110 acre operation near Big Timber, Montana, to Montana State College (presently Montana State University) in 1956, intending it to be for the use of the Veterinary Research Laboratory. In early 1957 a collection of about 275 volumes from Huidekoper's personal library were transferred to the MSC library. Wallis Huidekoper married Lillian Porter O'Brian in September 1906. She died in 1952 and he died October 26, 1956.
Frances Gertrude White was born on July 24, 1881 in Willow Creek, Montana, as the daughter of a merchant. In July of 1901 Gertrude married Walter White; two years later their son Lester Roland White was born. Four years after Lester's birth, Walter and Gertrude were divorced. In 1910 she lived with her son Lester in Bozeman, Montana where she worked as dressmaker out of her home. During 1914-1922 Gertrude was a nurse and a midwife. Ten years later, she began working at Goy Good Store as a sales lady. She passed away on April 26 1965 and was buried in the Meadowview Cemetery in Manhattan, Montana.
In February 1876, Captain Edward Ball of the Second U. S. Cavalry leveled charges against Dexter E. Clapp and Nelson Story alleging fraud perpetrated against the Crow Indian Agency in Montana. The charges in question included bribery, providing inferior pork and cattle, payment for merchandise not delivered, and "cheating the Indians out of their supplies." E. C. Kemble, United States Indian Inspector, investigated the accusations directed against Clapp and Story. Kemble compiled two reports in November 1876 that prompted rebuttal by Clapp and Story in December 1876 and January 1877. Judge H. N. Blake, United States District Court 1 in Virginia City, Montana, presided over the grand jury hearings in April 1876. Clapp resigned from the agency in May 1876, but neither he nor Story were indicted and the matter was dropped.
Robert (Bob) and Genevieve (Gennie) DeWeese were pioneers in the modernist movement in the state of Montana. Primarily painters and printmakers, both artists influenced a generation of students through their teaching and involvement with the Montana arts community. Bob was Professor of Art at Montana State University from 1949 to 1977. Prior to that, he taught classes at Texas Tech University and Ohio State University. He earned his B.S. from Ohio State University and his M.F.A. from University of Iowa in 1948. In 1946 he married Gennie, who was a fellow art student at Ohio State.
They had five children together: Cathie, Jan, Gretchen, Tina and Josh. According to Tina, "Art was certainly their common ground, but family is what held them together." Both were also committed to "equal studio time"; Tina has observed that "Gennie was a feminist before the word was known."
Both Bob and Gennie exhibited extensively throughout the state and major retrospectives of their works were presented at the Montana State University School of Art (1979) and the Yellowstone Art Center (1991) for Bob, and at the Missoula Art Museum (1996) for Gennie. In 1995 Bob and Gennie received the Montana Governor's Award for the Arts. That same year, Gennie was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Fine Arts from Montana State University in Bozeman.
Bob and Gennie were a hub for a very lively community of intellectual, modernist thinkers and artists of their generation, mostly a cross section of university faculty. They loved to stay in touch with what people were thinking about and what was new in their respective fields through hosting parties which provided them with lifetime friends. Bob DeWeese passed away in 1990, and Gennie in 2007. The DeWeese children continue to honor their parents' life work.
"Major" James B. Campbell was born on October 15, 1799 in Tennessee. He moved to Illinois in 1825 and worked as a clerk prior to launching a business career in the new settlement of Chicago. Campbell invested in real estate and became wealthy, although some financial setbacks eventually influenced him to move to Missouri in 1852. In 1863 he traveled to Bannack, Montana Territory, and afterwards claimed land near the three forks of the Missouri River at Gallatin City. He engaged in ranching and operated a mercantile business there until his death on January 3, 1873. Campbell married Sarah A. Kain in 1831 and the couple had seven children, including a son, Gurdon Campbell and daughters Fannie and Anna. The two girls, the youngest of the Campbell children, arrived in Montana after their parents via a Missouri River steamboat in 1865. Fannie eventually took over the operation of her father's ranch and Gurdon was concerned with operating the mercantile business at Gallatin City.
The Morris State Bank was opened in Pony, Montana, in 1902, with a capital stock of $50,000. The bank moved into a newly constructed building in early 1903. William W. Morris was president of the Morris State Bank until his death in October 1904. Thomas Duncan served initially as vice president and then succeeded to the presidency in 1905. Following his death that same year, Mary B. Elling became president. Charles E. Morris served as a director in 19O2 and became vice president in 1905. Cashiers for the bank included Philip H. (Harry) Gohn and Fred G. Smith. Other officers included M. M. Duncan, a Virginia City attorney, who served as a director, and Henry J. Schreiber who was a vice president beginning in 1904. By June 1906, the Morris State Bank had achieved deposits in the amount of $200,000 and was conducting business with banks in Montana and throughout the country. A close business relationship existed with the Elling State Bank of Virginia City and the Union Bank and Trust Company of Helena, whose president was George L. Ramsey. The Morris State Bank closed and went into voluntary liquidation on February 1, 1926. At that time the board of directors borrowed $96,000 from the Elling Estates Company so that all depositors could be paid. The bank then came under the jurisdiction of a liquidating agent. The officers and directors of the Morris State Bank were businessmen and active members of the Pony community. Several mining operations and other businesses were connected to the bank through these people. Henry Elling and William Morris were partners in Elling and Morris, which bought the Boss Tweed-Clipper mines in 1880. In 1882, Morris bought the Strawberry, Willow Creek and Ned mines. In 1883, Henry Elling erected a stone 20-stamp mill. In 1884 Morris bought half interest in the mill, which thereafter was known as the Elling-Morris stone mill. Elling died in 1900, and the properties were sold outright in combination with the Bell, Eclipse, Charity, and Summit, to a Boston syndicate and reorganized as the Indian Mining Company. By 1901 the company made large-scale improvements, but relinquished its ownership to the mine to W. W. Morris and Sons and Associates a few years later. Most mining activity in the area ceased as the ore played out in the early twentieth century and the town of Pony today is all but abandoned.
Richard H. Clow (1847-1926) was born in Nova Scotia, Canada and raised for much of his boyhood by his sister Agnes Louise Clow Cruikshank of Boston, Massachusetts. In 1864, Richard got permission to enlist in the Union army as a seventeen-year-old and was initially placed as a 100 day enlistee with the 22nd Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry. He trained at several Boston area facilities including Readville and Gallops Island. He transferred to the 56th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry after his first 100 days and was sent to the Army of the Potomac outside of Petersburg, Virginia. Clow took part in some of the final battles of the war in Virginia and mustered out in the summer of 1865 after participating in the Grand Review in Washington, D. C. After the war Clow enlisted in the 13th United States Infantry and served at several posts on the northern plains. After that enlistment he lived in Iowa, the Dakotas, Nebraska, Idaho and finally Oregon where he ran a hotel and prospected for gold. Clow married twice; first to Mary Bingham in 1870, and after her death to Melinda Story in 1880. The couple had two children, Cora and Robert. A grandniece of Richard H. Clow was Bertha Cochrane Clow, a professor of home economics at Montana State University, Bozeman.
Norman Strung was born on October 21, 1941 in New York, N.Y. and married Priscilla (Sil) Hoerschgen in October, 1963. He received his B.S. from Montana State University-Bozeman that year and attended University of Montana in 1963-64. While Strung spent the majority of his career as a free-lance outdoor writer, he was also a licensed hunting and fishing guide and an instructor of English at Montana State University from 1964-67, a consultant for the Hunting and Fishing Library and Fish America Foundation, and the Outdoor editor for Mechanix Illustrated and an associate editor for Field and Stream. Besides writing numerous feature articles, Norman Strung also wrote or contributed to at least 15 different books: The Fisherman's Almanac, 1970 with Dan Morris; Family Fun Around the Water, 1970 also with Dan Morris; The Hunter's Almanac, 1971; Camping in Comfort, 1971, with Sil Strung; The Complete Outdoor Cookbook, (contributor), 1971, Dan and Inez Morris; Deer Hunting in North America, 1973; Spinfishing: The Complete System, 1973; Misty Mornings and Moonless Nights: A Waterfowler's Guide, 1974; Communicating the Outdoor Experience, (editor), 1975; Whitewater!, 1976, with Sam Curtis and Earl Perry; The Cutting Edge: An Encyclopedia of Knives, 1977; The Complete Hunter's Catalog, 1977; To Catch a Trout, 1979; Fishing the Headwaters of the Missouri, 1981; and The Art of Hunting, 1984. Strung also published under 2 pseudonyms, "Bart Yaeger" and "Asouff Barkee" to many of the outdoor magazines. Norman Strung died at the age of 49 on October 17, 1991 at his home in Bozeman, Montana.
William S. Prentiss was an early pioneer of La Grange County, Indiana. He was born in Massachusetts in 1798 and moved west to Indiana in 1832. He became a successful farmer, sawmill owner, and probate judge in Springfield Township. Prentiss married Jane M. Clark (1808-1890) on December 25, 1832 and the couple had five children, including Roderick and William. William S. Prentiss died in 1872. Roderick Prentiss, born in 1840, received an appointment to the United States Naval Academy in 1854. He graduated in 1859 and received his commission as a midshipman, first serving on the USS San Jacinto and USS Portsmouth on a cruise to Portugal and Africa. Roderick was promoted to the rank of lieutenant in August 1861 and was assigned to the South Atlantic Blockading Squadron on board the USS Crusader. His last assignment was on board the USS Monongahela and during the battle of Mobile Bay on August 5, 1864 he was fatally wounded when that ship engaged the Confederate ironclad CSS Tennessee. Roderick died the next day and was buried at Pensacola, Florida. William Prentiss, Roderick's brother, was born on April 18, 1835. He lived with his parents and eventually entered into a partnership with his father to operate the family properties. In April 1864, William and a group of men decided to travel together to the gold fields of Montana Territory. They followed the Platte River road of the Oregon Trail to Fort Laramie and then went up the Bridger Trail to Montana Territory. Prentiss reached Virginia City on August 5, the same day his brother received his fatal wounds at Mobile Bay. William returned home to Indiana by the end of 1864 and resumed management of his father's property, eventually inheriting the estate and becoming active in the local Republican Party. Prentiss was married February 27, 1866, to Hermia S. Coffinberry and he died on January 10, 1911.
The Patten Family members highlighted in this collection are: Francis England Wall (F.E.W.) Patten (1823-1898); his son George Yager Patten (1876-1951); George's first wife, Eleanor Ferris Patten (d. 1943); their daughter, Margaret Patten (1903- ? ); George's second wife, Sarah Frances Smith Patten (1899-1986).
Born in Missouri, F.E.W. Patten settled in Virginia City, Montana as a merchant in 1863, served in the fourth Montana Territorial Legislature, and until his death in 1898, sold real estate and insurance in Butte. F.E.W. married Mary Amelia Armstrong. Their son, George Y. Patten, was born at Virginia City in 1876 and attended public schools in Butte. After 1893, he worked as a court stenographer and studied law. In 1900, rather than going to law school, George took the bar exam and passed with highest honors. He built up a private practice dealing primarily with corporate law, working closely with the law firm of Cotter and McHatton, and became widely recognized as an expert in mining, water rights, and public policy laws. In 1901, he married Eleanor Ferris (? - 1943), daughter of Colonel Edward and Margaret Eastman Ferris. George and Eleanor had three children, Margaret (1903 - ?), Mary (1905 - ?), and Eleanor Jr. (1913 - ?). George married Sarah Frances Smith in 1945. Frances was born in 1899 in Durham, Kansas. She completed her B.A. in home economics at Kansas State University in 1922, and her M.A. in adult education at Columbia University in 1938. She worked for Kansas State College for the Extension Division from 1925 to 1927. She continued her Extension Service work in Flathead County, Montana until 1929. Frances Patten taught for the Department of Home Economics at Montana State College, Bozeman between 1946 and 1964. She spent the last 7 years of her teaching career doing extension work in the Middle East. George Y. Patten died in Bozeman in 1951. Frances Patten died in Bozeman in 1986.
George Suckley was born in 1830 in New York City. In April 1853 Suckley was appointed assistant surgeon and naturalist to the Pacific Railroad Survey of the 47th and 49th parallels between St. Paul, Minnesota, and Fort Vancouver, Washington Territory, under the command of Isaac I. Stevens. His work on the survey included a 1,049 mile, 53-day canoe trip down the Bitter Root, Clark's Fork, and Columbia Rivers to Fort Vancouver, during which he made extensive natural history collections. Although commissioned as a surgeon with the U.S. Army, Suckley resigned to pursue his work as a naturalist during the latter 1850s. On the outbreak of the Civil War, Suckley rejoined the Army and was commissioned Surgeon of Volunteers. He served for the duration of the war, resigning April 22, 1865. Suckley died July 30, 1869, in New York City.
Isaac Ingalls Stevens was born in 1818 in Massachusetts. He was the first Governor of Washington Territory, serving 1853-1857. He also served as a United States Congressman and a brigadier general in the Union Army during the American Civil War until his death at the Battle of Chantilly in 1862.
Samuel O'Connell was born in St. Louis, Missouri, in 1850, the son of Samuel and Mary O'Connell. At the end of the Civil War he went to work as a clerk for Brigadier General Myers. In 1869 he began working as a bookkeeper for A.C. Leighton in Omaha, Neb. He also served as a bookkeeper on the Yellowstone Expedition of 1873 and the Black Hills Expedition of 1875. He served as a bookkeeper for Leighton and Jordan, which operated the Juneaux trading post at the junction of Frenchman Creek with the Milk River. O'Connell left the service of the post in 1876. He built a hotel in Miles City which burned in 1883, and later had a ranch and hotel near Rosebud, Montana.
The Extension service originated with the agricultural societies founded in the early days of the American republic which provided educational opportunities for farmers and industrial workers. These agricultural societies were influential in the passage of legislation in 1862, permitting the establishment of Colleges of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts in all states. In 1887, Agricultural Experiment Stations were authorized and the Cooperative Extension Service was established in 1914 by the Smith-Lever Act. In Montana, the first county agents predated this federal legislation, with Milburn L. Wilson assigned to Custer and Dawson Counties, and Carl H. Peterson assigned to Fergus County. Gallatin and Missoula counties were the next to receive agents, and the entire program expanded rapidly in 1917 when the State Defense Council demanded more coverage in response to the United States declaration of war on Germany. Eventually almost every county in Montana had at least one agent assigned, as well as a Home Demonstration Agent. Although primarily agriculturally related in its early years, the major function of the Extension Service evolved to provide informal adult and youth education directed to helping people solve the various problems which they encounter from day to day.
All agents filed annual reports of their activities, detailing any special programs or presentations they may have performed during the year for their constituents. Information occasionally includes crop statistics, livestock statistics, weather summaries, and organizational efforts. These reports were typed in multiple carbon copies, with one sent to the state administration offices, one to Washington, D.C., and one retained by the agent.
Carolyn Reynolds Riebeth was born on September 1, 1898, the daughter of Major Samuel Guilford Reynolds, agent of the Crow Indian Reservation from 1902-1910. She attended public school in Hardin, Montana, Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts and the University of Montana, Missoula. She married Edwin Walter Riebeth in Billings, Montana in 1928 and the couple had two daughters. In 1941 the Riebeth family moved to Hardin, Montana where Carolyn taught at the high school. In 1985 she published a book on Joseph Henry Sharp, an artist who she had known as a girl while living at Crow Agency with her father's family. Carolyn Riebeth died in Hardin, Montana on July 12, 1992.
Michael Langohr was a U.S. Forest Ranger and supervisor of Gallatin National Forest at the turn of the twentieth century. He was born in Adrian, Michigan on April 14, 1860 and came to Montana in 1898. He ran a grocery store in Bozeman for a time, and began working for the forest service shortly thereafter. An avid gardener, Langohr began selling lettuce he grew in hot beds next to his house and expanded his business by building a greenhouse. He retired from his Forest Service job to run the nursery business full time in April, 1906. Michael Langohr died in Bozeman, Montana in 1935.
The Big Hole Commercial Company operated stores in Wisdom and Divide, Montana from about 1890 to 1920s. Wisdom had been settled as early as the 1880s, with the town laid out on property claimed by Alva Josiah and Hattie Noyes. One of the first stores to open in the town was owned by Joseph P. Lossl, but by the 1890s the town had grown large enough to accommodate retail competition from several parties, including the owners of the Big Hole Commercial Company. Using a branch location at Divide, a stop on the railroad line from Utah to Butte, Montana, the Big Hole Commercial Company offered general merchandise and agricultural equipment to the people of Wisdom. The Big Hole Commercial Company building in Wisdom was eventually purchased by Don and Grace Anson during the 1930s and continued operation as the Basin Mercantile Company. The Ansons were succeeded in ownership by Leonard Smith. The Wisdom store building burned to the ground in a disastrous fire on May 20, 1960.
George Donald Mueller was born in Lewistown, MT, in 1921 to Oscar and Josephine Mueller. He graduated from Fergus County High School, attended Montana State College for two years, then joined the Army and served in World War II. After completing his education, he became a meteorologist with the U.S. Weather Service in Meacham, OR, and Great Falls, MT. He returned to Lewistown after retirement.
Mueller was vitally interested in local and state history. He was active in the Central Montana Historical Association, the Sons and Daughters of the Montana Pioneers, and was a member of the Montana Historical Society. His articles were published in a number of publications, including the Montana Magazine of Western History.
As the grandson of Charles W. Cook (who, along with David E. Folsom and William Peterson, made up the Cook-Folsom-Peterson Expedition of what is now Yellowstone National Park in 1869), Mueller was especially dedicated to the stewardship of Cook's memory and to ensuring that his role in the Park's development was recognized.
He died in 2016 at the age of 94.
The Columbus Creamery Company was registered with the state of Montana for incorporation on April 6, 1906 by several prominent citizens of the community. Among the founders were J.B. (Joseph Burt) Annin and George H. Simpson. Annin, a Methodist minister born on October 26, 1865 in Leroy, New York, moved to Columbus in 1892 where he operated a mercantile business and was elected to the Montana State Senate in 1914. He died on June 22, 1918. Simpson, a Canadian born on March 15, 1856, moved to Columbus in 1893 and served as the secretary for the Columbus Creamery Company. He was also an attorney, justice of the peace, and for a time, Deputy Assessor of Yellowstone County. He died May 25, 1927. The Columbus Creamery Company ceased operations sometime prior to April 6, 1926 when the corporation was officially designated as inactive by the Montana Secretary of State office.
Philip Thorpe was born in England on May 8, 1829 and came to America in 1849, visiting New York and Wisconsin before traveling to California during the gold rush. He came to Bannack, Montana Territory, in 1863 and in 1864 settled in the Gallatin Valley near the town of Hamilton, Gallatin County. There Thorpe ran a dairy and cattle operation until 1880 when he moved to Dillon in Beaverhead County. During the mid 1870s, Thorpe acted as an agent for John M. Sweeney and the T.C. Power and Company in connection with a lawsuit between Charles Spafford and Sweeney. The lawsuit culminated in early 1876 with a judgment in favor of Sweeney, and Thorpe was retained as an agent to deal with William Perks, a tenant on the land claimed by Sweeney.
Hobart D. Myrick was born in Martelle, Iowa in 1879. He moved to Montana in 1909 with his wife, Mabel, and in 1911 took up residence at his homestead in Square Butte. While living in Square Butte, Myrick established the Square Butte Elevator Company and served as the company's president for 20 years. He served as a financial officer for the Methodist Church in nearby Geraldine, was a part of the Farmers Union Grain Terminal Association, and had some interest in the Equity Cooperative Association. In 1950, Myrick moved to Bozeman, Montana where he would reside until his death in December of 1973.
Montana State University (MSU) was founded in 1893 as the state's land-grant college, and named the Agricultural College of the State of Montana. Later renamed the Montana College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, by the 1920s it was commonly referred to as Montana State College (MSC). Recognizing the institution's growth and excellence in undergraduate and graduate education, the state assembly renamed the institution Montana State University on 1 July 1965. Although the school was consistently overseen by an appointed president since its founding, MSU's various subdivisions have been renamed and reorganized numerous times. This is especially true for the various colleges, which prvious to 1965 were referred to at different times as "schools" or "divisions." These various academic subunits were sometimes headed by a person designated as either a director or a dean. The date of establishment for each of the colleges that presently comprise MSU, partially based on their designation of the academic unit's head as a "dean," are: College of Agriculture, 1915; College of Arts and Architecture, 1976, College of Business, 1984; College of Education, Health, and Human Development, 1987; College of Engineering, 1915; College of Letters and Science, 1960; College of Nursing, 1984; Gallatin College, 2010; University College, 2008.
David B. Christie was born in Watertown, Wisconsin in 1848 of Scottish immigrants who came to the United States about 1847. David was the fourth of four children of James and Eliza Reid Christie. On July 4, 1870 David married Mary Emma Stratten also of Watertown, Wisconsin. While living in Wisconsin and Minnesota, Emma gave birth to seven children, with their first child dying within two years. David Christie suffered from asthma, and for this reason came west to Montana Territory beginning in 1883 to explore the possibility of relocating himself and his family. For three consecutive summers David work for the Godwin Ranch near Cherry Creek in Madison County, while exploring Montana to find a place to homestead. In 1885, David found land in Bridger Canyon, about 12 miles from Bozeman, where he built a home and move his family there in October. Once settled in Bridger Canyon, farming, dairying, and stock raising maintained the Christie homestead, and Emma gave birth to three more children. Five of his sons also homesteaded within the region. David Christie remained at his Bridger Canyon homestead until his death in 1920, with Emma dying the following year.
The COVID-19 pandemic universally upended daily life beginning in March 2020 in both expected and unexpected ways. Members of the Montana State University (MSU) community reacted and adapted as needed in our personal, professional, and scholastic lives. MSU Library's Archives and Special Collections documented this new reality by soliciting written reflections and other records of life during the 2020 pandemic from MSU students, staff, and faculty.
Laura Jane Osborne was born on March 20, 1911 in Toston, Montana. She married Alfred W. Taft in 1933. Laura served as the superintendent of public schools in Glacier County, Montana and the couple lived in Cut Bank. Laura and her husband were particularly interested in Siksika culture and attended many of the performances of tribal “fancy dancers,” including the Starr School group which was active during the 1950s. Laura Jane died on March 4, 1993 and her husband Alfred died in 1994.
Fancy dance or Pan-Indian dancing is a style of dance some believe was originally created by members of the Ponca tribe in the 1920s and 1930s in an attempt to preserve their culture and religion. Fancy dance was considered appropriate to be performed for visitors in exhibitions, but today, fancy dancers can be seen at many powwows across the nation and even the world. They are performed by many different tribal groups including the Siksika.
Wilbur Fisk Sanders was born in Leon, New York on May 2, 1834. He began his career as a schoolteacher in New York and Ohio where, in 1856, he completed his training as an attorney. Sanders served as a first lieutenant in the sixty-fourth Ohio Volunteer Infantry during the early years of the Civil War. In 1863, he joined the rush to the gold fields of Bannack and Virginia City in what would later become Montana Territory. He was active during the vigilante activity of 1864, and afterwards practiced law in Virginia City and Helena. In addition to his interests in mining and stock raising, Sanders also embarked on a political career in the new territory. He was defeated in four separate elections for the territorial delegate to the U.S. Congress, but later served as a delegate in the territorial legislature from 1873 to 1879. After Montana achieved statehood, Sanders was elected as a Republican to the United States Senate and served from January 1, 1890, to March 3, 1893, but was unsuccessful in his bid for reelection. He married Harriet P. Fenn on October 27, 1858 and the couple had at least three sons, James, Wilbur, and Louis. Louis P. Sanders (1870-1940) attended Harvard University, served with the First Montana Infantry Volunteers as an officer during the Spanish-American War and also became an attorney. Wilbur Fisk Sanders died in Helena on July 7, 1905.
Emma Stoker was born at Red Bluff, Montana in 1894 the daughter of John H. and Mary K. Stoker. She had a brother and a sister, also born at Red Bluff, Alfred J. and Birdie. Emma’s father was a gold miner and worked at claims in the Red Bluff and Norris area of Madison County, Montana. Emma worked as a nurse during her adult life, but she continued to call Red Bluff home until she died in 1962.
Joan Salvato Wulff was born in 1927 in Patterson, New Jersey. She married Lee Wulff in 1966. Joan was a National Casting Champion from 1943-1960, she won the National Fisherman’s Distance Casting event against an all-male field, and was elected to the International Game Fish Association Hall of Fame in 2007. Joan is the founder of the Catskill Fly Fishing Center, Trustee of the Atlantic Salmon Federation and the International Game Fish Association, advisor to the Federation of Fly Fishers, and consultant for the R.L. Winston Rod Company.
The Wulff’s opened the Joan and Lee Wulff Fishing School in 1979. Joan has authored articles for Outdoor Life, Atlantic Salmon Journal, Fly Fisherman Magazine, and Rod and Reel later Fly Rod and Reel. Wulff also authored the books Joan’s Wulff’s Fly Casting Accuracy, Joan Wulff’s Fly Casting Techniques, Joan Wulff’s New Fly Casting Techniques, and Joan Wulff’s Fly Fishing: Expert Advice from A Woman’s Perspective.
The Springhill Go-Getters were a Gallatin County, Montana, 4-H club in Springhill, an unincorporated area north of Bozeman in Gallatin County, Montana. Springhill was a station stop along the Milwaukee, Chicago, and St. Paul railroad; settlement began in the 1860s.
4-H (Head, Heart, Hands, Health) is a youth education program sponsored and managed by county extension offices. In partnership with national 4-H offices, the extension offices provide programming for personal development in agriculture, arts, health and safety, and leadership to volunteer-run clubs in their region. The Gallatin County 4-H programming is run through the Montana State University Extension Office.
Some members of the Springhill Go-Getters participated in the Montana State 4-H Competitions.
Prior to the establishment of the Montana State University Library's Special Collections, history professor Merrill G. Burlingame began collecting oral history interviews of Montana pioneers still living in the late 1940s and early 1950s. His work continued through his student, David Swingle in 1964, and by librarian Minnie Paugh. The recordings were amateurish, often difficult to hear, and were not transcribed. After 1964 the recordings were, for the most part, given separate accession numbers and accessed infrequently through a card catalog system. Bringing all these disparate tapes together into one collection is an attempt to increase their research profile and better assist bibliographic control.
Chandler C. Cohagen was born to John Cohagen and Mary Turner Cohagen near Pierson, Iowa on April 24, 1889. He attended Pierson public schools and graduated from high school in LeMars in 1906. From 1907 until 1912, Cohagen lived with his family in Billings and worked in the construction field until attending the University of Michigan. While working towards his Bachelor's Degree, Chandler was a member of the Kappa Psi fraternity and helped found the Alpha Rho Chi professional fraternity. After graduation in 1915, Cohagen returned to Montana and began an architecture firm with partners Angus Vaughn McIver and Walter V. Marshall. They worked in Great Falls and eventually expanded into Billings before McIver and Marshall enlisted in the war effort. The company became McIver and Cohagen in 1920 and Chandler became an independent architect starting in 1936. He and his partners designed several buildings around the state including the Billings Deaconess Hospital, Billings area schools, campus buildings for Eastern Montana College, and various residences. Cohagen married Flora Brown on September 18, 1917. Cohagen was also active in the local community. He was a Masonic Lodge member, involved in the Rotary Club, and the Billings Midland Club. Chandler Cohagen died in Billings, Montana in December, 1985.
The Bozeman Ministerial Conference was an ecumenical organization consisting of Protestant clergymen in Bozeman, Montana. Denominations represented by the members included the Methodist Episcopal North, Methodist Episcopal South, Presbyterian, Baptist, and Disciples of Christ. The group met monthly in various homes to discuss matters of mutual interest and present formal papers on religion, morality, and ethics. The group also concerned itself with local social issues such as the operation of the Gallatin County Poor Farm and the city's regulation of saloons and houses of prostitution.
Spurs (Service, Patriotism, Unity, Responsibility, and Sacrifice) National Honor Society was a women's collegiate sophomore honor society founded at Montana State University - Bozeman, February 14, 1922. The founding purpose of the Spurs was to serve the college or university and the community, to support the activities in which the student body participates, to further among the women students a spirit of loyalty and helpfulness, and to uphold the traditions of the college or university.
Originally a women-only organization, Spurs went co-educational in 1976. Chapters were spread across the United States, primarily at smaller colleges and universities and emphasis remained on community service and scholarship.
The Spurs dissolved as a national organization as of May 31, 2006 by decision of the October 2005 National Convention. However, the MSU Spurs that were left decided to join with the MSU Student Alumni Association the following the year.
Nelson Giles Story III was born in Bozeman, Montana on January 13, 1900. He attended the Culver Military Academy, Montana State College, and the Babson Business Institute in Massachusetts. Story became a pilot and a businessman in Bozeman, and served in the Montana National Guard in World War II, stationed in Australia and New Guinea. He married Velma Edwards Muchow at Lincoln, Nebraska in 1936 and the couple had one daughter. Story died in Bozeman on March 1, 1965.
Judge Don Binkowski was born on October 29, 1929 in the Detroit suburb of Norris, which later became North Detroit. He attended Wayne State University and obtained his law degree in 1958. In 1961-62, he took part in Michigan's Constitutional Convention as a state Senator in the 2nd District and afterward moved to Warren, Michigan to begin his law practice. Binkowski served as Mayor Pro-Tem and later became a 37th District Court judge in Warren. In 1995, after years of research and collecting, Binkowski published a biography of Philetus W. Norris which he had undertaken as a hobby. Binkowski's other avocational interests include his Polish-American heritage and Native American culture, and environmental protection. Binkowski now lives in Hendersonville, North Carolina and is a member of the Yellowstone Association, Sierra Club, and the Wilderness Society.
Philetus Walter Norris was born in Palmyra, New York August 1821. He first worked as a land surveyor and also served in the Union Army during the Civil War as a spy. Norris gained his first position with the government by becoming the first Postmaster of Pioneer, Ohio. After being a state legislator and an unsuccessful bid for Senator, Norris moved to the Rocky Mountain west. In May 1877 he was appointed Superintendent of Yellowstone National Park where he served until 1882. Norris is best known for securing money for road building in the Park and naming numerous attractions.
Ernest McCollum was born in Lewistown, Montana in April 1886. He attended local schools and a business college in Illinois. In 1910, he filed on a homestead in Musselshell County and met Bessie L. McClain, his future wife, at a dance. McCollum helped Bessie file for her own homestead near Ingomar in Rosebud County in June, 1912. While working as a ranch hand for the 79 Ranch, McCollum built a home on Bessie's claim and in 1913 the couple married. They moved to the Rosebud County homestead permanently in March 1916 and remained there until 1947. That year, the McCollums leased their ranch and moved to Three Forks, Montana where they operated a tourist camp. Ernest McCollum died on May 19, 1952.
Eugene Cole "Gene" Quaw was born in Belgrade, Montana on March 6, 1891. His family moved to Bozeman around 1896 and Gene attended local schools before graduating from Montana State College (Montana State University) in 1910. While growing up he worked as a piano player at the Bozeman Opera House under musical director Louis Leo Howard and early displayed a talent for music composition. Gene worked as a band leader and composer after his graduation from college in Bozeman and also studied at the University of Minnesota, the University of California at Los Angeles, the University of Arizona, and Louisiana State University where he worked as the recreation director for twenty years until his retirement in 1961. During the 1920s, he conducted a dance orchestra for several summers at Yellowstone National Park, and he also worked for the Paramount motion picture company as a composer for cartoon features. Gene's published musical scores include: Under Any Old Moon at All (1909), Twilight Time (1920), Old Man Jazz (1920), Nobody Else (1923), The Rose of Sigma Chi (1924), Yellowstone (1937) Song of the Engineers (1942), and Dream Girl of Sigma Chi (1948). Gene Quaw died in Bozeman, Montana on December 17, 1968.
Millard E. Peterson was born Aug. 20, 1897, in Twin Valley, Minnesota to Louis and Valmina Peterson. In 1912 the family moved to Culberson, Montana. Peterson attended Intermountain College in Helena before transferring to Montana State College in Bozeman where he graduated in 1923 with a degree in science. He later earned a master's degree in science in 1939 from the University of Montana. From 1923-1927, Peterson taught at Darby High School until moving to Missoula, where he taught at Missoula County High School. He married in 1938 to Jean Morgan Mair and retired from teaching in 1961. While attending Montana State College, Peterson was a member of Beta Epsilon, a locally established fraternity that became inactive around 1934. He was also a member of the Sigma Xi Science Honorary fraternity, a life member of the Montana Education Association, and former president of the Missoula Retired Teachers Association. He was a sponsor of the MCHS National Honor Society for 10 years. Mr. Peterson was a ranger naturalist in Glacier Park for three summers and a resident naturalist at Hyalite summer camp for the Montana School for the Deaf. Peterson died on February 12, 1989.
Yellowstone National Park was created by an Act of Congress on March 1, 1872, and in 1886 the United States Army took over administrative duties. In 1916, the newly formed National Park Service assumed control and has operated Yellowstone National Park ever since. In the late 1950s, the Yellowstone National Park administration began to identify and preserve the official records of Yellowstone's early years and, along with this effort, the YNP historian and museum staff also collected topically related manuscripts. These manuscripts represented a diverse assortment of material pertinent to Yellowstone but were created by specific individuals rather than representing the central filing system of the park. These manuscripts ranged from individual files created by employees to privately generated manuscripts on Yellowstone topics. In the mid 1970s, the staff of the Montana State University Library identified eighty four individual manuscript collections for photocopy and inclusion in their own holdings.
Dave Hughes was born in Astoria, Oregon in 1945 and graduated from the University of Oregon in 1967. He is the author of over 25 books and articles on fly fishing, fly tying, and works of fiction. His works include Western Hatches (written with Rick Hafele), Handbook of Hatches, Reading Trout Water, Wet Flies, Essential Trout Flies, Nymphs for Streams and Stillwaters, and Trout Flies. His articles have appeared in Gray's Sporting Journal, Field and Stream, Fly Fishing the West and Fly Fisherman. As of 2022 he is a regular columnist contributor for Fly Rod and Reel, and Flyfishing and Trout Journal.
Dave was founding president of Oregon Trout in 1983, awarded life membership in the Federation of Fly Fishers in 1985, the Pete Hidy honorary life membership in the FlyFishers Club of Oregon in 1992, and received the prestigious Letcher Lambuth Angler Craftsman Award in 2008 from the Washington Fly Fishing Club. He lives in Portland, Oregon with his wife, Japanese fly fishing writer Masako Tani, and their daughter Kosumo.
Most of the information above is taken from the Biography page on Dave Hughes website: http://davehughesflyfishing.com/about-dave/
Elmer Johnson moved to Benchland (Judith Basin County) Montana from Maitland, Missouri in 1910 to establish a homestead with his sons Floyd, 16, and his brother Author. Another son, Earl, and a daughter, Ethel Metcalfe, followed later. Mamie Ader married Floyd M. Johnson in Iowa in 1918. The couple made their home and farmed in the Benchland area until 1948 when they moved to Lewistown, Montana.
Robert George Dunbar was born April 30, 1907 in La Grange, Wisconsin. He married Mary Snell Albertson in 1937 and had two children. He received a B.A. in History with a minor in Spanish from Milton College in Wisconsin in 1929. In 1933 he received his M.A. in History from the University of Wisconsin and earned his PhD in 1935, also from the University of Wisconsin. He taught at the University of South Dakota in Vermillion, 1935-1937 and at Colorado State University at Fort Collins, 1937-1947. During World War II, he served in the U.S. Navy as an instructor at Navy War Orientations Programs in Bainbridge, MD. He joined the faculty of the History Department at Montana State University in 1947. He was an Associate Professor of History from 1948-1950 and Professor of History from 1950-1973. He served as Director of the Center for Inter-Cultural Affairs from 1968-1973. At M.S.U. he also founded the International Studies Center in 1955, and in 1963, he succeeded in establishing a Peace Corp training program focused on helping agricultural projects in Ecuador. He was an authority on water rights and irrigation in the Western United States. He was the author of Forging New Rights in Western Waters (University of Nebraska Press, 1983); The Farmer and the American Way (Oxford Book Company,1952); "History of Agriculture;" chapter 5 of vol. 2, in Colorado and Its People (Lewis Historical Pub. Co, 1948); "History of Agriculture;" chapter 12, of vol. 1, in A History of Montana, by Merrill G. Burlingame and K. Ross Toole (Lewis Historical Pub. Co., 1957) and numerous articles in professional journals and newspapers. He served as president of the American Agricultural Society, 1966-67 and spoke frequently to national and state agricultural groups. He vigorously advocated inter-cultural programs and Native American Education. He was a founding member of the Bozeman Chapter of the Unitarian Universalist Fellowship, which bears his name. Upon retirement in 1974, he was awarded the rank of Professor Emeritus in History. Dr. Dunbar died February 15, 1993 at age 85.
Dr. Stuart E. Knapp was born on August 23, 1928 in Monroe, Washington. He attended Pacific University to obtain both his bachelor's and a master's before moving onto the University of Idaho, finishing his PhD in Parasitology at Kansas State University. Upon graduation, Dr. Knapp pursued a career as a professor and administrator at various institutions of higher learning before accepting the position of Vice President of Academic Affairs at Montana State in 1978. He continued to actively participate in his field, including conducting research on a variety of topics within the parasitology and veterinary medicine fields.
Salmon poisoning is caused by the microorganism Rickettsia that lives within members of the Salmonid family. Most cases of Salmon poisoning occur when canids eat dead fish or their remains from riverbanks that are prevalent during spawning. Salmon poisoning is mostly found along the western slope of the Cascade mountains. After canids ingest the poisoned fish, they become ill within seven to twelve days. Before extensive research into the cause, an infected canid had a ninety percent chance of the disease becoming fatal. In the early 1920s, Dr. Bennett T. Simms, a professor of veterinary medicine at the Oregon Agricultural College (now Oregon State University) in Corvallis, began collecting research data on salmon poisoning. His work was continued by Dr. J. N. Shaw, also of OSU, in the 1940s. Dr. Knapp collected the research notes of Simms and Shaw during the course of his own work on the topic.
Montana State University was founded in 1893 as the Montana College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts. Among the first faculty members were Benjamin Maiden, Frank W. Traphagen, Luther Foster, and Augustus Ryon, who also served as the first president of the institution. During the next 100 years, the University never adopted a formal collecting policy for biographical information on its faculty members, but sometime in the early 1960s library and archive staff members began gathering newspaper clippings, press releases, notes, and reminiscences to document biographical information on former and current faculty members. These items were maintained alphabetically in a series of vertical filing cabinets. The practice appears to have ceased sometime in the in the early 1990s.
The Park Poultry Producers Association was a turkey growers association in Park County from 1923-1940. The Association was formed in 1923 to develop and carry on a county program of work for the development of the poultry industry. The Association had the goal of putting on a poultry show to educate what constitutes good poultry and to promote the better sale of live poultry through cooperative selling. Earl Sexton became manager of the PPPA in 1931 and was replaced in 1937 by John Nickelson . Most of the correspondence is addressed to Nickelson. The reason for the disappearance of the PPPA after December of 1941 is unknown.
Zales N. Ecton, born in Iowa April 1, 1898, moved to Montana at age nine. He received his public education in the local schools. After graduation, he attended Montana State College. When the country entered World War 1, Ecton volunteered for training in the Student Army Training Corps. After the war, Ecton completed his education at the University of Chicago Law School. Ecton entered politics in 1932, running for office as a State Representative from Gallatin County. He served in the Montana House of Representatives for four years and in the Montana Senate for ten years. From 1947-1953, Ecton was a U.S. Senator, the first Republican elected by popular vote in Montana. As a Senator, Ecton served on the Senate Appropriations Committee, the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, the Committee on the United States Post Office and Civil Service, and the Committee on Public Lands. Ecton lost the 1952 election to Mike Mansfield. He returned to Montana and resided in Bozeman until his death in 1961.
The Granite-BiMetallic Consolidated Mining Company of Philipsburg, Montana, was formed in April 1898 by the merger of the Granite Mountain Mining Company and the Bi-Metallic Mining Company. In 1881, Charles D. McLure with several St. Louis capitalists, including Charles Clark, Augustus B. Ewing, Lewis M. Rumsey, Moses Rumsey, and Charles Taussig formed a syndicate incorporated as the Granite Mountain Mining Company. In June 1886, another property was incorporated as the Bi-Metallic Mining Company by a syndicate comprised of many of the same owners of the Granite Mountain Mining Company, with the addition of Paul A. Fusz and others. Following the 1898 merger of the two syndicates, the company had several years of profitable operation. After it went into receivership in 1903, the mines were operated primarily on the lease system. They produced sporadically through the 1920s, and in 1934 the Granite-BiMetallic Consolidated Mining Company was dissolved.
In the early years of Montana State University, there was no formal degree program in the dramatic arts. The Alpha Psi Omega Society and the Sock and Buskin Club produced multiple plays annually in the first decade of the twentieth century. Eventually, professional development in terms of courses offered, minors, and finally a major being offered at MSC/MSU occured. Theater courses first appeared in the 1958-60 catalog, and theater first appeared as a separate minor (teaching) under the Department of Education in the 1962-1964 catalog. From 1962-1971 it appeared In the College of Letters and Sciences English Department as a Major Option. (Speech and Theatre Arts). In 1972 it became a separate department in L and S with 3 options and continues as a teaching minor in the Department of Education. In 1984 theater switched over to the College of Arts and Architecture with an addition of a "non" teaching minor being offered as well. A separate Media and Theatre Arts Department emerged in 1988 under the MTA option and listed a Motion Picture/Video/Theatre option for a major. By 2005 the teaching minor had ceased and in 2010 the word "theatre" is dropped from the option title and the department becomes the School of Film and Photography. At present courses are still offered as electives, but there are no options or minors still in existence. In the years when the college lacked a formal degree program in the dramatic arts, the students generally worked with a faculty advisor to facilitate the presentations. Alumni of note who were part of the MSU theater program over the years include Chet Huntley, Bill Pullman and Anthony Zerby. The location of the productions varied over time. Students generally put on about three to five plays per year, and a proper theatre and production facility was built in the Strand Union around 1957. In 2005 all production moved to the new state-of-the-art Black Box Theatre on the western side of the campus. Production evolved from simple box sets through advanced staging and lighting and to compact, durable traveling productions that tour for months at a time such as the Shakespeare in the Parks program.
Harriet Ann Danielsen Hayne and Jack McVicar Hayne have had a huge impact on Montana's Dupuyer community since they moved there from Seattle in 1953. The seventh child born to Norwegian immigrants Angeline and Albert Danielsen, Harriett was born on September 11th, 1922 on Puget Island in Washington. Her siblings were named Ben, Dan, Elmer, Adine, Inga, and Palmer. After growing up on Puget Island, she decided to attend Heald College in San Francisco in 1940. Following the United States entrance into World War II and the creation of the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in 1943, Harriet left Heald and joined the Women's Reserve. While serving in the Reserve, she met Jack Hayne, who was serving in the Navy as an officer.
Jack Hayne, born in Great Falls, Montana on November 22, 1920, was one of two children of George Roy and Effie McVicar Hayne. His father Roy served in World War I and was a homesteader in Teton County. Jack's sister was named Margaret Sue. When the U.S. entered World War II, Jack enlisted in the U.S. Navy and served for the duration of the conflict. On April 3, 1946, he married Harriet in New Orleans. The couple moved to Seattle to attend Washington State University. Completing their studies, the Haynes then moved to Dupuyer, Montana where they established a farm and permanent residence. Harriett got involved with Montana politics and community affairs, becoming a state representative for the Republican Party and accumulating almost twenty years of political experience. Jack took an interest in the history of the West and Montana. His studying and research of Montana history would lead to his appointment to the Montana Historical Society board of trustees. Jack and Harriett had four children: Mary, John, Ali and Nancy. Harriett passed away in February 2012. Jack passed away in February 2018.
The Three Forks, Montana community hosted several Lewis and Clark expedition observances and outdoor pageants in their town and at the nearby Missouri Headwaters State Park during the 1940s and 1950s. As early as 1945 the town sponsored a rodeo, street dance and barbeque. Planning for the first outdoor dramatic pageant had its origin in the founding of the Three Forks chapter of the American Pioneer Trails Association in 1947 with Ray Bacon as president. The organization continued to assist with the summertime parades and rodeos, but in 1950, with the assistance of Professor Bert B. Hansen of Montana State University in Missoula (now known as the University of Montana) a pageant was staged to commemorate the journey of Lewis and Clark for the first time. Hansen continued his involvement with the pageant until 1957, writing scripts and directing the cast of actors, animals, and musicians for each summer's show. The performances took place each summer, with the exception of 1954, and the scripts used were variously titled "Corridor to an Empire," "Two Captains West," "Louisiana Purchase Explored," "Outward Bound," and "Homeward Bound."
Willard Harris was an elderly resident of Manhattan, Montana who told his stories of Manhattan, its industries and assorted notable people (especially in the early 1900s) to Milo Grue on July 29, 1962. Mr. Harris does not mention his age except to say he came to Manhattan in 1895 and went to work at that time. Milo Grue was writing a history paper "The Manhattan Story" at Montana State University and recorded this question and answer session, although the location of Grue's resulting paper is unknown.
On 2 February 1865, the territorial legislature of Montana created Gallatin County with Gallatin City as the designated county seat. The first county commissioner organized the county government and established the judicial offices on 11 March 1865. In the same year J. S. Mendenhall was elected the first sheriff and John Bozeman was elected probate judge. Over the next four decades the county rapidly grew. In 1869, construction started on the first county jail, but by 1881 it was already inadequate for the growing community. By 1910, the population of Gallatin County more than doubled. The sheriff's office was responsible for keeping law and order in the growing area as well as other various duties such as cattle inspections and registering firearms. In the first half of the 1900s, Gallatin County elected eleven sheriffs: Thomas J. Fowler (1901-1905); Ed Reynolds (1906-1909); A. H. Sales (1909-1913); W. S. Evans (1913-1915); Del E. Gray (1915-1919); Charles C. Esgar (1919-1923); James Smith (1923-1927); F. G. Slaughter (1927-1929); O. L. DeVore (1929-1933); Lovitt I. Westlake (1933-1947); and Charles E. Rice (1947-1955).
The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi was founded in 1897 at the University of Maine, and is known as the oldest, largest, and most selective all-discipline honor society in the nation. The chapter at Montana State University-Bozeman was founded in 1921 and presided over by Dean E. B. Norris with the intent of bringing the benefits of the Phi Kappa Phi to Montana students and to continue the mission of the Society: "To recognize and promote academic excellence in all fields of higher education and to engage the community of scholars in service to others."
Florence Isabel Penwell was born in 1867, the eldest of eight children born to Merritt William Penwell (1840-1926) and Mary Ann Biggs Penwell. Merritt had first come to Montana Territory during the 1863 gold rush, and after a brief residence in Bannack moved on with his brothers Oscar and John to establish a farm in Gallatin County about five miles north of present day Belgrade. Florence grew up on the family farm and remained there for the rest of her life, becoming an active member of the local Methodist church. She never married and passed away in 1947.
John Stands In Timber was a member of the Cheyenne Indian tribe, born in Birney, Montana in 1882. Among his ancestors was Lame White Man, a Southern Cheyenne chief who was killed at the Little Bighorn in 1876. John received his education at the Haskell Institute, an industrial training school for Indians in Lawrence, Kansas. He returned to Montana where he first worked as a maintenance man at a school in Busby and a cowboy. He became active in tribal governance at the Northern Cheyenne reservation and eventually became a historian of the tribe. In 1955 he met Margot Liberty, a schoolteacher who was also pursing graduate work in anthropology. She began interviewing Stands In Timber in 1956, continuing until 1959, covering mostly topics dealing with tribal history. The tapes Liberty used to record the interviews were erased after she had transcribed them and only a few survived. In 1967, the same year Stands In Timber died, Liberty published an edited version of selected interview transcriptions, Cheyenne Memories (New Haven: Yale University Press). In 2013, Liberty published a compilation of all her interviews with Stands In Timber titled A Cheyenne Voice (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press).
William Fisk Brewer was born in Chapel Hill, North Carolina on August 26, 1870. He grew up in Iowa and graduated from Grinnell College in 1891. He taught in Oregon and Illinois before he joined the faculty of the Montana College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts (later Montana State College) in 1895 as a professor of Greek and Latin. During a leave of absence from the college in 1898 he earned a master’s degree from Harvard University. He eventually became the head of the college English department until his retirement in 1942. Brewer was active in the Montana Education Association during his time in Montana, serving as a delegate to several meetings of the organization. He was also an advocate for the blind and helped organize the annual summer program for blind at Montana State College. Brewer and his wife Mabel moved to Lodi, California after his retirement and he died there on June 14, 1963.
The Project on Oral history began in 1974 as an officially sanctioned activity of the Gallatin County Bicentennial Committee. Directed by Lee Ann Cooper, the project produced eighty-three tape recorded interviews with senior citizens of Bozeman and Gallatin County. At the end of the project the interview summaries were collated and indexed and a printed guide published giving subject access to the various interviews. The original summary sheets were photocopied on unstable liquid toner stock and were transcribed by the staff of Montana State University during the spring and summer of 1999. Most of the interviews were conducted by high school students in Gallatin County, and the few interview transcripts produced were composed by volunteers.
The roots of the Agricultural Economics Department at Montana State University reach back to the Farm Management program in 1913. Classes in the beginning stages were instructed by E. L. Currier, whose main priority was teaching basic accounting principles to working farmers after these practices were found to be deficient. With the passage of the Purnell Act in 1925, the college was granted much needed funds to begin a curriculum focusing on the agricultural economics field. Director Linfield dismantled the Farm Management Department and put this new field under the wing of the Experiment Station. Although M. L. Wilson was named its first head, actual leadership came from former M. S. C. president James Hamilton while Wilson finished up his graduate work at the University of Wisconsin. Once Mr. Wilson took charge of the department in 1925, he was not an instructor but a researcher with the Experiment Station. His projects in collaboration with E. A. Starch deal with transforming dry farming and making agriculture more profitable. Aside from his work on the "Fairway Farms project," Wilson also did a great deal of research to publish Dry Farming in the North Central Montana Triangle, Extension Service Bulletin 66 (Bozeman, Montana State College: June 1923). The study centered on an area roughly encompassed by Havre, Great Falls, and Cut Bank, Montana, and discussed the reasons for the success and failure of the region's farmers. Many of the Agricultural Economics faculty and staff assisted in gathering the data used for this report, and when Wilson left the University to take a post within the Roosevelt administration and E. A. Starch took over as Head of the Department in 1933, research projects on all aspects of Montana agriculture continued, not necessarily restricted to the "triangle" area.
Rodger G. Kent was born in Butte, Montana on August 12, 1908. His family moved to Pony in 1911, and in 1914 they settled on a ranch at Varney, south of Ennis. Kent graduated from Ennis High School in 1930 and in 1933 married Ruth M. Althouse of Cameron. In 1963 Kent retired from ranching and moved to Ennis where he died in 1983. Sometime during his retirement, Kent wrote a biographical sketch of a local character who lived in the Madison Valley during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, Ike Irish. Kent’s essay draws on his own memories as well as those of his relatives to describe Irish.
Ed C. Brown was born in 1877 in Kansas to Mr. and Mrs. A.L. Brown. His family moved by covered wagon from Kansas to Iowa in 1889. He went to work at the U Cross Ranch near Buffalo, Wyoming in the 1890s. Ed was a ranch hand, and later became the ranch boss. He farmed south of the Yellowstone River near Ballatine and Huntley Project, Montana between 1912 and 1964.
Sylvester Nemes was born on April 2, 1922 in Erie, Pennsylvania. His parents, Dominic Nemes and Pauline Angel, were Romanian. He grew up in Cleveland, Ohio, where he was introduced to fly tying by a friend and mentor, and traveled frequently to Pennsylvania with his homemade flies to fish the rivers and streams there. Nemes enlisted in the Army at age 19 as the U.S. was entering World War II. He was stationed at the Ibsley Air Field in Hampshire, England as a member of the Fighter Control Squadron with the Eighth Air Force. While stationed, he was set up on a blind date with Hazel Mary Barclay, an English nursing student. Nemes landed at Omaha Beach on D-Day, staying there for nine months as part of a team directing fighter aircraft. When he returned to England, he married Hazel on March 17, 1945 in Southampton, Hampshire. After the war, Hazel and Sylvester's first child, Diana, was born in England. The family moved to the U.S. where their second and third children, Eric and Gregory, were born. While the couple raised their family, Nemes earned a bachelor's degree in English from Kent State University. He went on to work as a copy writer and a photographer in Cleveland, Detroit, and Chicago. Nemes, Hazel, and their children moved to Crown Point, Indiana in 1961, where Nemes worked as a photojournalist and continued to cultivate his love of fly fishing.
Nemes published his first book in 1975 through Chatham Press. The Soft-Hackled Fly championed wet fly fishing and the beauty and utility of flies tied with bird feathers in an era when dry fly fishing was the dominant trend. In the book he details the history of the soft-hackled fly and gives instruction on tying them and using them in fishing. Nemes went on to become a prolific author on the subject of fly fishing, writing Learn How to Fly Fish in One Day (1986), Soft-Hackled Imitations (1991), The Soft-Hackled Fly: A Trout Fisherman's Guide (1993), The Soft-Hackled Fly Addict (1993), Spinners (1995), Six Months in Scotland: an American View of its Salmon Fishing (1998), Two Centuries of Soft-Hackled Flies: a Survey of the Literature With Original Patterns, 1747-Present (2004), and The Soft-Hackled Fly and Tiny Soft Hackles: a Trout Fisherman's Guide (2006). He wrote two unpublished novels: "Goodbye, Crown Point," about John Dillinger, the Depression-era bank robber, and an unnamed manuscript about World War II-era P38 fighter aircraft pilots. Hazel and Sylvester moved to San Francisco in the early eighties before settling in Bozeman, Montana, at the base of the Bridger Mountains, in 1984. Nemes continued to fish, create his own fly patterns, and write books. He had admirers as far-flung as Japan, where fans of his started a fly fishing club devoted to the use of the soft hackle, and a Nemes-branded fly fishing rod was produced and sold. He was honored by Trout Unlimited in Bozeman in 2008 with their Legends of the Headwaters award. Nemes died at home on February 3, 2011 outside of Bozeman.
The Wylie Permanent Camping Company formed in 1905 with the purchase of the Wylie Camping Company concession of William Wallace Wylie by A.W. Miles and A.L. Smith. Wylie had been operating camps in Yellowstone National Park since the early 1880s. By 1915 Wylie Way operated numerous camps in the Park including one at Yellowstone Lake. After the 1916 season, the newly-formed Park Service decided that all of the camping companies would be merged into one company. The new company became under the ownership of the Shaw brothers and A.W. Miles and was known as the Yellowstone Park Camping Company. It was renamed in 1919 as the Yellowstone Park Camps Company.
Sanford Daniel Reed was an early Kansas pioneer who traveled from Peoria, Illinois in 1864 by wagon with his wife Vesta and daughter, Josie. He settled somewhere in Kansas where he and his wife had a son, Franklin, in 1868. Following Sanford's death and Josie's marriage to Stephen Howes of Gallatin County, Montana Territory, Vesta and Franklin moved to live with Howes. They appear in the 1880 census record. Franklin eventually married and had at least one daughter, Helen, who married Joseph L. Moore. Helen Reed Moore gave her grandfather's diary to Merrill G. Burlingame sometime in the 1960s.
Photographer F. Jay Haynes (1853-1921) was one of the 19th century Northwest's best-known individuals. Beginning with a studio business in Moorhead, Minnesota, on the Minnesota-Dakota Territory border, Haynes became well known for his photographs of the great bonanza farms of the 1870s; for his portraits of Indians; his views of the Northern Pacific Rail Road route; and most especially for his successful career as photographer and concessionaire in Yellowstone National Park. Haynes toured the park with his camera every year between 1881 and his death forty years later. First selling photoprints, then pictorial souvenirs, and eventually postcards, Haynes' images were probably the most widely distributed and popularly recognized of any photographer of the American West. Between 1885 and 1905 Haynes also operated a travelling photo studio in a converted Pullman railroad car. This mobility not only made Haynes Palace Studio Car one of the best known features of the Northern Pacific, but also gave him camera access to sights from the Great Lakes to Puget Sound.
Haynes' base of operations began in Moorhead, Minnesota, was moved to Fargo, North Dakota, in 1879 and in 1889 to Saint Paul, Minnesota There he maintained a central studio and photo printing operation, and operated winter offices for his Studio Car and Yellowstone Park photography and transportation concessions, the Monida and Yellowstone and later Yellowstone-Western Stage companies. The Studio Car ceased travelling after the 1904 season and Haynes severed his ties to the Northern Pacific to court ties to the Union Pacific, a working relationship that fed the growing stage line he loved. When the Secretary of the Interior cancelled the MY concession lease in September, 1913, as a result of a suit, Haynes regrouped and was able to have a new lease renegotiated by the end of the year. It was in force until the consolidation of Park concessions in 1916, the year that Haynes retired and sold his business to his son Jack Ellis Haynes. Yellowstone's "Grand Old Man" still made annual trips to the Park until heart failure claimed him in 1921.
For more complete biographical information, see Freeman Tilden, Following the Frontier with F. Jay Haynes (New York: Knopf, 1964), and F. Jay Haynes, Photographer (Helena, Montana: Montana Historical Society Press, 1981).
William Merriam Cobleigh was an early professor at Montana Agricultural College (MAC) and was later the head of the chemistry department at Montana State College, Bozeman. His parents were Reverend William and Julia Cobleigh of Corvallis. His father later moved to pastorates in Idaho and Washington. Their original home seems to have been in the Boston area. William Merriam, the only child of the Reverend and his wife, was born in 1872 in Haverstraw, New York. In addition to his teaching, Cobleigh worked for the Missoula Mercantile in Corvallis and matriculating at the College of Montana in Deer Lodge from 1891 to 1894. He also worked as the assistant chemist for the Anaconda Mining Company. In 1894, Cobleigh began looking for a place to do his post graduate education and decided on Columbia University where he earned his master's degree in chemistry in 1899. His parents were in Ilwaco, Washington and later Hoquiam during that time. He continued his post-graduate work at Harvard and the University of Chicago. He was also acting President of Montana State College from 1942-1943. Cobleigh married Esther Rose Cooley, the relative of R. A. Cooley on the MAC staff, in 1901. She graduated as a kindergarten teacher in 1899 and taught in Bozeman after she married William in 1901. They had three children together, Winifred, Lois, and Norman. In addition to his work at the college, Cobleigh was a member of the American Public Health Association and the State Board of Health. He was also a trustee of the Presbyterian Church and a member of the Bozeman Lodge No. 18, Ancient Free and Accepted Masons. He died in the early 1950s after a long career in chemistry.
Jessica Louise Donaldson Schultz Graham was born in Minnesota on August 17, 1887. She received her BA from the University of Minnesota in 1913. From 1915-1918, she taught in rural schools in Gallatin County, Montana. From 1918 to 1929, she taught at Montana State College (now Montana State University, Bozeman) in the English Department as an Instructor, Assistant Professor and was Acting Head of the Department during 1923-1924. During her time there, she directed a pageant of the Gallatin Valley in 1919 and in 1927, the production "The Masque of the Absaroka" depicting the Crow Indian cosmogony that involved Native Americans, students and townspeople. Interested in furthering programs for women students, she helped found Cap and Gown (the precursor to Mortar Board), the Women's Athletic Association and most notably the Spurs, for which she wrote the initiation ritual. She resigned from the college in 1929 and earned her MA in Anthropology from the University of California in 1930. In 1931, she married James Willard Schultz, noted for his books about the Blackfeet Indians, with whom she co-authored the book "The Sun God's Children" (a story of the Blackfeet) and started a career as a worker at the Blackfeet Indian Reservation at Browning, Montana. There she became the Community Worker under the WPA from 1937 to 1941. She helped to establish a craft shop at St. Mary, Montana for Blackfeet that featured their native costumes, equipment and tools. These craft industries eventually became a cooperative that substantially raised the income of the Blackfeet. She fostered the careers of individual Indian artists and was instrumental in the establishment of the Plains Indian Museum in Browning. She started a lending library and did social welfare work among the members of the tribe. From 1941 to 1953, she served the same type of position with the Bureau of Indian Affairs at the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming for the Shoshone and Arapaho tribes. The cooperative movement she started was embraced by many Northern Plains Indians and still functions across many reservations of the west. Following the death of James Willard Schultz in 1947 and Jessie's retirement in 1953, she married Harry L. Graham and moved to California where she continued to work on fictional and factual writings about Native Americans of North America. Her published works appeared in Ladies Home Journal, Woman's Home Companion, Popular Mechanics, Montana the Magazine of Western History, and various educational journals. She worked extensively on a primer series about Native Americans for young school children that was never published. She continued to visit Montana and the Blackfeet [Sisika (Blackfoot), Kainah (Blood) and Peigan] of Montana and Canada during the summer months. In 1961, she was the recipient of an Honorary Doctorate of Letters from Montana State University. In the late 1960s, she donated her collection of Indian artifacts, photographs, and James Willard Schultz papers to the Museum of the Rockies. (The papers and photographs are located in Collection #10, Special Collections). In the early 1970s, the Museum of the Rockies arranged for her to tape record her autobiography. Jessica wrote a rough draft from the transcriptions of these tapes and Anne Banks (Museum volunteer) edited and created an autobiography from that material which was never published. In 1974-1975, she established the James Willard Schultz Indian Heritage Award for Indian students of Montana which was administered by the Museum of the Rockies. Jessica Donaldson Schultz Graham died on June 30, 1976.
William R. Plew was born around 1879. He was an architect in Bozeman, Montana and worked for a time in the firm of Link and Haire. He also worked as a Professor of Architectural and Civil Engineering at the State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts at Bozeman (now Montana State University) from 1913 to 1945. He wrote a pamphlet for the college entitled One and Two Room Rural School Buildings in 1919.
John Wesley Stith was born in Kentucky in December, 1853. He moved with his family to Illinois and Wisconsin while growing up, but did not receive an extensive education. Stith moved to Terry, Montana in the early 1880s before the arrival of the Northern Pacific Railway, and became a general merchant and contractor. He eventually became involved in almost every commercial and political aspect of the town, serving as a Justice of the Peace, clerk for the local school board, and a Custer County commissioner. His business interests included real estate, insurance sales, wool buying, construction, and operating a hardware store. Stith and Cornelia Hamilton were married in September, 1888 after a four and one half year engagement. Four children were born into the family; Beryl, Hamilton, Roy and Kenneth. In 1905, Mr. Stith developed ulcers that would eventually end his life on December 27, 1909 in Terry.
Beryl Stith was born in Terry, Montana on February 24, 1893. She was the first graduate of Terry High School and received degrees from the University of Chicago. Beryl returned to Terry where she became a teacher and active in organizations and community projects. In 1963, she researched and wrote a short history of Terry called Terry Does Exist. She used papers and records that she had inherited from her father, and the booklet was reprinted in 1983 during the Terry centennial observance. Stith eventually retired in Bozeman and lived in the Hillcrest retirement home where she published another pamphlet, Childhood Memories of Hillcrest Residents in 1967. Beryl Stith died on March 5, 1976.
William H. Storrs was a New York born shoemaker living in Marietta, Ohio who enlisted in the 77th Ohio Volunteer Infantry. Initially enrolled as a private in Company B, Storrs was almost immediately promoted to regimental commissary sergeant on January 25, 1862, and accompanied the regiment on its march to Fort Donaldson, Tennessee. The 77th formed part of the Union forces at the battle of Shiloh, Tennessee, April 6-7th, and the subsequent advance on Corinth, Mississippi. In August of 1862 the regiment was ordered to the military prison at Alton, Illinois where they served as guards until July, 1863. Storrs and his comrades next transferred to Arkansas where they eventually formed part of General Frederick Steele's expedition to Little Rock in September, 1863, and the occupying garrison of the city afterwards. In March of 1864, Storrs was put on detached duty with the Little Rock garrison's commissary department and did not accompany his regiment on its march with Steele's Camden expedition. While on this expedition most of the 77th Ohio was captured at the battle of Mark's Mills, Arkansas. Storrs declined to reenlist when his three year enlistment expired on January 25, 1865. His residence and activities thereafter are unknown.
Henry Francis Keyes was born in Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts on July 21, 1879 to Charles Gilman and Juliet A. Keyes. He attended the Roxbury Latin school and graduated from Harvard in 1901. He also attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, graduating from that institution in 1904. Keyes began practice as an architect in New York with Herbert D. Hale in 1905 before returning to Boston in 1907 where he worked with Guy Lowell. Keyes established his own firm shortly thereafter. He worked on a number of projects in the Boston area, the best known being the present day "New England Fish Pier," designed in 1914. Keyes married in June 15, 1905 to Marian Brewer Call, and the couple had two children, Elisabeth Brewer, born on January 7, 1908, and Juliet Frances, born February 21, 1913. The family made their home on Penniman Road in Brookline, Massachusetts at least until 1930. Henry Keyes died in 1933.
In the summer of 1899, Henry Keyes and twelve other Harvard students went on an expedition sponsored by the Harvard Summer School of Geology and led by instructor Jay Backus Woodworth in cooperation with Professor Nathaniel Shaler. Other students were Samuel W. Duncan, Corey C. Brayton, Burt Z. Kasson, Roger Flint, Robert W. Sayles, Carl C. Shippee, Edwin M. Brush, George A. Hathaway, Albert P. Chittenden, Marcus L. Goldman, Howard Lane Blackwell, and Samuel C. Wiel. Keyes traveled by train to Buffalo, New York on July 4, and from that point took a steamship North Land through lakes Erie, Huron, and Superior before landing at Duluth, Minnesota on July 7. The next day they took the train to Bozeman, Montana where they arrived on July 11. On July 13 they left to begin their hike at the Peter LeBeau ranch near present day Gallatin Gateway. There contractors Jack Bean and Edward C. Alderson loaded mules with supplies for their journey into southwest Montana. The Harvard men hiked for the entire trip which took a circuitous route to the park through the Gallatin Canyon, Lone Peak, Jack Creek, Ennis, Virginia City, the Red Rock lakes, Henry's Lake, and entering Yellowstone on August 2. They went up the Madison River to the geyser basins where, on August 5, Henry Keyes scalded his foot after breaking through the thin crust above a hot spring. Keyes and Shippee followed the hikers by stagecoach to the Canyon Hotel, but were forced to leave the expedition on August 13 due to Henry's injury.
Nick Muir operated a sheep ranch near Harlowton, Montana from approximately 1930 into the 1960s. Mr. Muir turned the ranch into a family corporation in 1959. He passed away in 1981. His wife, Evelyn Muir in 1996 is the Secretary/Treasurer officer of the Muir Ranch Co. Nick took over the ranch from his father, Joseph Muir. Joseph immigrated from Scotland and worked around the Deer Lodge valley as a ranch hand and later ranch foreman at the Bielenbury Ranch. After marrying Bertha Higgins in 1901, they settled and started the sheep operation near Harlowton, Montana.
Nancy Colberg, a librarian, author of Wallace Stegner: A Descriptive Bibliography (Confluence Press Inc., 1990) and retired owner of Willow Creek Books, a used and rare book store in Denver, Colorado, collected one of the country's largest collections of publications written by and about Wallace Stegner - writer of fiction, history and essays on the U.S. west including: history, literature, public policy and conservation. In 1982, Colberg met Stegner and, as she collected works by him, she realized a need for an in-depth descriptive bibliography. When Stegner learned of her project, he granted her access to his books and papers and gave her a corner desk in his study when she visited at his California home. He also wrote letters of introduction for her to libraries and other sources of materials for her research. Colberg eventually gathered 54 original letters and postcards from Stegner written to her, photocopies of 370 Stegner letters written to others, and about 600 books, journals and article offprints created by or written about Stegner. All of Colberg's collected monographs have been individually cataloged and are available in Special Collections. The journals, articles, correspondence and other miscellaneous materials by and about Wallace Stegner are included in this collection. A second and smaller private collection of monographs and journal articles belonging to the late Thomas H. Watkins, who intended on writing a biography of Stegner, has been incorporated into this collection.
The Greater Yellowstone Coalition (GYC) was founded in May 1983 by a group of 35 conservation organizations in response to a number of increasing threats to the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem in the western United States an area which spans 20 million acres and extends into three states (Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana) as well as two national parks (Yellowstone and Grand Teton). The stability and health of this ecosystem was actively endangered by mining, drilling, geothermal development, logging, roads, subdivisions, and human overuse. The group felt that the area lacked a state/federal administrative structure that could properly respond to these threats, and sought to create an environmental advocacy group which could manage multi-state coordination efforts.
The area that the coalition focuses on encompasses two national parks and surrounding protected lands. Established in 1872, Yellowstone National Park was the country's first national park, set out over 3,500-sq area covering parts of Wyoming, Idaho and Montana. Prior to the formal establishment, humans had been living and traveling in the area for over 11,000 years. First, a variety of Native American tribes lived in and traveled through the park, and then in the early 1800s European Americans began to explore it. The area also includes the Grand Teton National park, which is located in Wyoming. First founded in 1929, the original park included a smaller area than today, just the Teton Range and surrounding lakes. Over the years, more land was set aside for the park, by Congress and a section purchased by John D. Rockefeller with the intention to donate. In 1950, the park in its current state of 480 sq miles was established with the combination of the original land, the Jackson Hole National Monument and the Rockefeller donation.
GYC's founding mission, established at the group's 1983 founding convention at the Teton Science School in Jackson, Wyoming, embraced protection of the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem in its natural condition. Convention attendees elected a thirteen-member steering committee, made up of members from Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana, comprising the first GYC Board of Directors. They adopted three primary goals: fostering citizen action through outreach efforts, developing both regional and national awareness around the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem, and promotion of the scientific concept of the ecosystem itself.
Robert L. Anderson was appointed GYC's first Executive Director in 1984, and the group debuted at the 1984 annual meeting, held at Yellowstone National Park's Mammoth Hot Springs Hotel. By then, the organization's primary office had been established in Bozeman, Montana, and infrastructure efforts began to transition into coalition-building and garnering member support. Both 1984 and 1985 saw the group's environmental advocacy efforts crystallize and gain traction, particularly around protection of the Yellowstone grizzly bear population, the reintroduction of wolves into the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem, advocacy for expanded wilderness designations, site-specific issues and protection, and support for state-level and Congressional wilderness bills.
In the nearly four decades that GYC has been in operation, it has served as the focal point for education, advocacy, and outreach around the preservation of the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem. One of the group's first projects centered on the development of the New World Mining District in the Gallatin National Forest, Park County, Montana. GYC was a leader in the fight to ensure that the northeast corner of the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem was kept from becoming a gold mine. In 2007, GYC was part of a group that sued to block the de-listing of grizzly bears from the U.S. list of endangered species. The group has been instrumental in the protection and preservation of several rivers in the ecosystem, including portions of the East Rosebud River, the Snake River, and the Yellowstone River. It has successfully pushed for legislation preventing mining and development in public lands and driven efforts to protect bison, wolves, native fish, and grizzly bears residing in the ecosystem.
The organization holds an annual convention each year, drawing academics, legislators, students, and advocates for several days of scientific education, recreational outings, brainstorming sessions, and policy-setting.
Notable Events:
1990s -- a leader in the fight against the development of the New World Mining District. Successful in blocking
2007 -- part of a group that sued to block the delisting of Grizzly Bears from the Endangered Species Act list
2015-2019 -- Yellowstone Gateway Protection Act; protects public land in the mountains East of Paradise Valley and North of Yellowstone National Park from mining claims
Caroline Byrd stepped down from her role as Executive Director on February 29, 2020, having served as ED since 2013. GYC Deputy Director Scott Christenson served as the Interim Executive Director before being named the new Executive Director in July 2020.
Merrill G. Burlingame was born in Boone, Iowa on March 13, 1901, the son of Nathan and Teresa Gildea Burlingame. He attended local schools prior to receiving his doctorate at the University of Iowa in 1936. In 1929 he joined the faculty of Montana State College (now Montana State University) and became chair of the history department in 1935. Burlingame's research interests were primarily concerned with Montana and the frontier west. His books include: The Montana Frontier, (1942); A History of Montana (with K. Ross Toole, 1956); A History of Montana State University (1968); John M. Bozeman, Montana Trailmaker (1971). Burlingame also contributed articles to Mississippi Valley Historical Review, Pacific Northwest Quarterly, and Montana: The Magazine of Western History. Along with Dr. Caroline McGill, Burlingame helped establish the Museum of the Rockies and was active in the Montana Historical Society, the Montana Institute of the Arts, the American Historical Society, the Christian Church, and the Masonic fraternity. He married Virginia Struble in 1936 and the couple had one son, Ray. Merrill Burlingame died in Bozeman, Montana on November 14, 1994.
Hazel W. (Rennie) Christiansen was born in Brookings, South Dakota on March 14, 1897 to John St. Clair and Daisy Rennie. Christiansen attended schools in Minnesota and Montana until graduating from high school in Hobson, Montana. She attended Rocky Mountain College before earning a degree in Library Science from the University of Wisconsin. In 1928 Hazel married Kenneth Christiansen in Hardin, Montana. She was the Big Horn county librarian and he was a wheat farmer and cattle rancher. In the early 1960s, Christiansen put considerable work into a proposed history of Big Horn County and compiled notes from a variety of printed and manuscript resources. The history was never published, and Christiansen died in Powell, Wyoming on March 22, 1990.
Enoch Hodson was born in Marion County, Indiana April 8, 1842. He was one of the early pioneers of Montana. He moved to Bannack in what was then the Idaho Territory, in 1863. He took an active part in the vigilante movement before moving to Gallatin County in the early 1870s. In 1880 he ran for sheriff of Gallatin County on the Republican ticket but lost the election to Charles P. Blakeley. A well respected member of the community, Hodson ran a sawmill and a general store in the Bozeman area. He married a Miss Thompson of Jefferson County some time before he settled in Gallatin County. The two of them had 8 sons that all lived to maturity. Enoch Hodson died November 22, 1892 in Helena, Montana at the age of 60. He suffered a severe injury to one of his eyes and he died during the operation to repair it at the hospital in Helena.
Datus Carryer Proper was born in Des Moines, Iowa on April 18, 1934, the son of William Glisan Proper and Marjorie Carryer Proper. His extended family ancestors included Ida Sedgwick Proper, an early suffragist and New York artist, and Datus DeWitt Proper, an Iowa Civil War veteran and Baptist preacher. Datus C. Proper grew up in Iowa, Nebraska, Northern Minnesota, and Yellowstone National Park, where his father worked as a personnel officer for the Park from 1946 to 1955. Proper attended secondary school at Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire and earned a BA degree in English from Cornell University in 1956. He began a career with the United States Foreign Service and served in Washington D.C., Angola, Brazil, Ireland and Portugal as a political analyst. He also earned a MA degree from George Washington University in 1978 and completed the course of study at the National War College during the same year. His longtime interest in fly fishing and pheasant hunting were sharpened during his government career, and he experienced success in publishing sporting articles along with his first book, What The Trout Said, prior to his retirement from the State Department in 1987. Proper then moved with his family to the Gallatin Valley near Bozeman, Montana where he began a full time career as a writer, mostly on outdoor subjects. He wrote three more books during his time in Montana and hundreds of articles for outdoor and regional magazines, especially Field and Stream where he became a regular contributor. He married Anna Therese Collins in 1975 and had two sons prior to his death on July 27, 2003.
The Willson and Rich firm of Bozeman, Montana Territory was a merchandising operation founded in 1866 by Loren W. Tuller and Charles V. Rich, both of New York. Encouraged by their friend, Lester S. Willson, Tuller and Rich pooled their resources to organize an expedition to Montana and establish a store. In company with Lester's brother, Davis, the partners left Canton, New York in May of 1866. After a stop in Omaha, Nebraska to purchase stock, the party crossed the plains and reached the new town of Bozeman on September 2, 1866. At first they sold goods out of a tent but by November of that year they rented space in a two-story log cabin owned by the local Masonic order. They continued in business at that location until Lester Willson arrived in the spring of 1867. He became the senior partner in the firm and, on the departure of Loren Tuller in the fall of 1867, the senior partner, changing the name to "Willson and Rich." The firm built a new store in 1868 and Lester Willson eventually incorporated the business in 1893 and sold it in 1914.
John Gustave Link was born in Bavaria Germany and came to America before 1887. He began working as an architect that year in Denver, Colorado and by the late 1890s he had moved to Montana where he worked in several partnerships including W.E. Donovan, J.C. Paulson, Joseph T. Carter, and Charles S. Haire. The firm of Link and Haire lasted until 1930 when, after Haire’s death, Link formed his own company with two of his sons, J. G. Link, Jr. and Elmer F. Link. The J.G. Link and Company continued operations well up to 1965 and was, at that time, the oldest architectural firm in Montana. The firm had offices in both Billings and Butte, and in the late 1940s employed eighteen persons. They designed both residential and public buildings, many of which are still used in the cities where they are located. John G. Link married Martha M. Welling of St. Louis, Missouri on September 18, 1895 and the couple had six children; Vesta, Randolph, John, Louis, and Elmer. Elmer F. Link (1913-1997) and John Jr. also became architects and Elmer eventually ran the company after his father’s death on January 5, 1954.
Winifred Brackett of Sheridan, Wyoming, was born on July 4, 1894. She married Martin H. Considine (1882-1965) in 1914 and the couple settled in a log cabin on Martin's homestead in near Biddle (Powder River County) Montana. Martin (commonly called "Mart") raised horses, built fences, and carried mail along a route from Biddle to the Kruger post office in addition to general ranching. Winifred was interested in the plant life about her and the garden around their home responded to her care and knowledge. The yard of their home was one of a beautiful landscape based on native plants from the hillsides. In later years Winifred did a great deal of work with landscaping using domesticated plants and flowers. Winifred Considine died on March 17, 1985.
Lillian E. H. Culver was a resident of Lakeview (Beaverhead County) Montana during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The Culver's home was on the Montana-Idaho border south of Red Rock Lake. Her husband, William N. Culver, had a mail and freight contract between Monida, Montana and Lake, Idaho. He was also in the cattle business and was away from home a great deal of the time. The Culver family sometimes wintered in Dillon. Correspondence came from William's home in Urbana, Benton County, Iowa and Lillian's home in Haverhill, MA. Friends wrote to the Culvers from Dillon, Twin Bridges, Basic, Monida, Butte, etc. Lillian also wrote short stories, apparently in response to a correspondence course in creative writing.
Mark Kirk was born in Pennsylvania in July, 1885, the daughter of Thomas S. Kirk and Elizabeth Sword Kirk. Sometime prior to 1888, the Kirks moved to Gallatin County, Montana where Mary grew up and attended the Gallatin County High School in Bozeman. Mary enrolled in the Montana College of Agricultural and Mechanical Arts (later Montana State University) on September 8, 1902, and she graduated from the school with a Bachelor of Science degree in general science on June 6, 1906. She worked as a teacher in Bozeman afterwards. Her date of death is unknown.
Prior to its donation to MSU, the collection was held by the DeWeese Family, who donated it in multiple accessions between 2018 and 2019.
Material in the F. Jay Haynes papers originated in several businesses with operations scattered in offices diverse locations. Despite the volume of material that survives it is obvious that much material is now missing or was never kept. No series or file should be considered more than representative of Haynes' activities in that business. Much of the bulk, including the bound ledgers now in Collections 1501 and 1502, was kept in Haynes' Saint Paul studio until his death in 1921. Son Jack Ellis Haynes came to possess his father's papers in several stages: first when he assumed the Yellowstone photography concession in 1915, when he bought from his father the entire family photography businesses in 1916, then as executor of the estate upon F. Jay Haynes' death.
In 1945 Jack E. Haynes moved the Haynes business from St. Paul to Bozeman, Montana. He closed the Minnesota studio and transferred the records and negatives to the new Haynes Studios Inc. warehouse. In the early 1950s, while beginning to compile a book of general Yellowstone history, Haynes began to rearrange F. Jay Haynes's business and personal papers, interfiling much of it into his own research files and occasionally adding thereto. Jack planted most of his father's papers (primarily correspondence) and stage company documentation, as he did his own working correspondence, within his own files in alphabetical order under "Haynes, F. Jay." Jack's death in 1962 halted work on his book. With permission of Isabel Haynes, the combined research files were used by Aubrey Haines for producing a work similar to Jack's book, a two-volume narrative history completed in 1977, The Yellowstone Story.
In 1977 Jack's widow Isabel Haynes deeded the family's collected library with the business and personal records, family photographs, and research files (including the materials in this collection) through the Haynes Foundation to the Montana State University Libraries. Memorabilia and the 20,000-negative collection and records relating to it (registers, copyright documents, etc.) were given to the Montana Historical Society.
Collection was in custody of Greater Yellowstone Coalition before being donated to MSU Special Collections.
The Ford letter, signed only as "Dotie," was written by Mrs. Ford to her husband to report to him on her activities as a schoolteacher at the Blackfeet Agency. The letter mentions many of the couple's friends back east in the context of asking about their health and activities. Mrs. Ford's description of the Blackfeet Agency includes information regarding the students in her school, and mentions several adult Blackfeet, specifically "Fancy Jim" and "White Calf." Particularly interesting is her description of the funeral of an Indian child who was buried in the ground, contrary to the tribe's traditional method of using scaffolds. She also describes the social and leisure activities of the Anglo members of the agency staff like amateur theatricals and playing croquet. Mrs. Ford also mentions "Mr. Warner" and "Mr. Welch" as agency employees. A stamped, addressed envelope is included with the letter.
The William H. Tracy papers consist of land transfer legal documents, Civil War pension applications, a business ledger and other miscellaneous papers. The papers document the real estate and mercantile operations of William H. Tracy throughout his life in Bozeman, Montana. Included is documentation of a patent for a new design of bobsled which Tracy had planned to market, diary entries within the W. H. Tracy and Company business ledger that records brief daily information on Tracy's activities from January 1907 to April 1908, and a business letter from T. B. Story written in 1909.
(4 items)
(5 items; fragments)
(2 items)
(20 items; fragments)
(6 items)
(2 items)
(16 items)
(2 items)
(6 items)
(7 items)
The Laura Brown Zook reminiscence consists of a typewritten transcription prepared by Cheryl Dee Lewis on June 10, 1964 and credits Zook’s daughter, Lora Margaret Hoff, as the person who originally took the dictation from her mother. In the reminiscence Zook talks about her life in the infant community of Miles City, her early education, and various notable events in the area.
The Yellowstone Park diary entries are brief and discuss fellow employees; movies and concerts attended and books read; scenic places visited in the park; and special employee parties including "Christmas in August" and the annual watermelon party.
The Barstow scrapbook was created by Charles H. Barstow specifically for his daughter, Elizabeth, and given to her on February 16, 1891. The book contains mostly mounted newspaper clippings, the majority of which deal with the Crow Indian tribe, or other Native Americans of the northern plains. Topics include: various controversies regarding the sale or leasing of Crow lands, particularly during the fall of 1887; the alleged malfeasance of Indian Agents H. J. Armstrong and Henry E. Williamson; crime; cattle ranching in the Crow reservation area; the Wounded Knee massacre of 1890 and events leading to it. There are also obituaries and social notices of persons in New England that were apparently friends or relatives of Barstow. Although the newspapers from which the clippings were taken are mostly unidentified, a few bear dates and titles written in pencil by Barstow.
The Victor George diary is a positive photocopy of a ruled notebook containing entries which document his activities from 1907 to 1931. Although presented in chronological order, it does not appear as if the entries were written on the recorded dates but rather transcribed at a later time from memory or another source. Most of the entries are quite terse, and few are beyond a single sentence that summarizes a day's activities such as teaching school, travel to different Montana towns, and ranch chores. Beyond the chronological entries, George recorded in his notebook cattle and livestock numbers and sales, family birthdays, and short essays regarding particular events or people in his extended family.
The Mitchell papers have been divided into three series. Series one contains materials created or collected by Mitchell while serving as co-chair of the Jaycees Legislative Committee in 1962. Mitchell's work on the committee related to the development of Substitute Senate Bill 45, passed on March 11, 1963, a state bill protecting fishing waters from highway construction. Papers include correspondence, brochures, pamphlets, newspaper articles, government documents, working papers, legislative lists, a photo story showing results of stream bed alterations, a slide presentation and slides promoting the bill, draft bills and the final version of the bill. Series two contains materials created or collected by Mitchell while serving as the chair of the Conservation Committee of the Jaycees. These papers relate to the committee's efforts to introduce a similar Federal bill to protect fishing waters. Papers include correspondence, newspaper articles, broadsides, state reports and official interdepartmental correspondence between Federal departments involved. These papers relate to the Jaycees continuing advocacy of the Stream Preservation Act of 1963 (SSB #45), Clean Water campaign, and the controversies over Federal construction plans for Interstate Highway I-15 along the Missouri River near Wolf Point, Montana. Series three contains the program, congratulatory letters, recommendations, newspaper clippings, and correspondence related to the awarding of a 1963 American Motors Non-Professional Conservation Award to Harry B. Mitchell.
Papers created or collected by Harry Mitchell in his work as co-chair of the Jaycees Legislative Committee, especially pertaining to the campaign for Senate Substitute Bill #45. Materials that predate Mitchell's term on the committee represent research on the issue that he gathered.
Papers created or collected by Mitchell as chair of the Jaycees Conservation Committee, especially in advocating federal legislation to protect fishing waters during the construction of interstate highways.
Papers, correspondence, newspaper clippings, and memorabilia for the 1963 American Motors conservation Award.
The Manhattan Malting Company records include two volumes. The first book is a monthly journal from December 1895 to January 1908, recording transactions from the malt house and elevator, farm, townsite, and freight. The second book is a cash book from February 1909 to October 1914. It is a record of expenses from the malt house and elevator, farm, and townsite.
"The History of a Bridle" is a narrative of Montana's vigilante activity starting in 1864, although it appears the document was composed much later in the nineteenth or early twentieth century. The unknown author, writing in the first person, describes his trip from Denver to Virginia City in the spring of 1864 in company with a mule train laden with supplies for a mercantile operation. At one point of this journey the author claims to have ridden on the overland stage line and identifies "Rowdy Pete" as his driver. After working a claim in German Gulch, the author describes a horseback trip to Atchison, Kansas in 1865 and his return to Helena, Montana in 1866. The narrative thereafter describes a great deal of vigilante activity primarily in the Helena area, although the chronology of the events is not always apparent. Most of the participants are identified by initials only, and their organization is identified as the "3-7-77 Committee." The essay apparently takes its title from the description of a hair bridle fashioned by an outlaw named "Henry" serving his sentence in the territorial prison. The original essay and its typed transcription have been placed in separate folders.
Positive photocopies and typed transcriptions of two diaries kept by Orson Newman in 1879 and 1884 which discuss daily life and farming operations in Coulson, Montana Territory; positive photocopy of an account book listing garden truck sold to W.A. Perry, purchasing agent for the Northern Pacific during its construction; 27 copy photographs of: the Newman and Scott families and their residences in the Billings area; Scott business buildings in Billings and a Billings street scene, circa 1900-1920. Included are images of Scott family friends C.M. Bair and Fred Hawthorn. None of the photographs are dated but all were taken in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
This collection includes correspondence and paperwork related to the founding and operations of Queer Straight Alliance on campus and issues that they were concerned with since 1977. Materials also include LGBQT resources, flyers, a scrapbook, a CD and audio tape, memos, newspaper articles, and other publications. A web archive begins in 2020.
(letters, articles, etc.)
(Out-in-Montana, The Paper, and such)
(includes film/photo negatives)
(Kecskes' articles)
(Montana)
Lesbian Connection, Volume 8, Issue 6, May/June 1986
The Margaret Patten Letter to “Alice” consists of an original letter and typed transcription dated February 10, 1921 and was titled "A Strange Disappearance". The letter was addressed to someone who can only be identified as Alice. The letter discusses her recollection of a story that was told to her by the host of her camp about the deserted cabin of Andrew Levinski. The host tells her that Levinski had come to the United States from Poland many years ago and after getting here he was quite disappointed. He came to Gallatin Canyon in hopes of hitting it big with prospecting. This was not the case and this caused him to live a hermit lifestyle. Levinski thought that he had found a gold mine in the mountains of Gallatin Canyon, but his discovery had brought more prospectors to the area. The other prospectors had grouped together, and they formed a corporation that Levinski was not included in. Levinski, from the forming of the corporation on, thought that they were out for his claims. One day while walking up the mountain he was confronted by two members of the corporation, they were supposedly armed, causing Levinski to shoot them in self-defense. Levinski confessed to the murder which caused him to go to jail until his trail occurred in the summer. Once the trail was held he was acquitted with the verdict of Self-defense and then he went back to his cabin. Then next spring, they investigated his cabin after no one had heard from him and found it deserted; Levinski was not heard from again. She then finishes the letter by saying that they were saddling the horses for a trip to a scout station on the park line.
The Louisa Burton Ledger lists transactions from 1889 to 1895. Information includes the surname of the stockgrower, the number and dates of cattle or horses pastured, and prices charged. There are also brief household account entries, and some data on vegetable sales to Bozeman residents.
This collection primarily includes business related documents and correspondence. Of particular interest are the papers regarding Benepe's business with the United States Geological Survey, the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the United States army, including transactions with the post at Yellowstone National Park, Camp Sheridan. Throughout the years Benepe held various grain contracts and provided supplies to the before mentioned agencies.
This series is arranged in chronological order and primarily contains business correspondence. In this case, business correspondence denotes written orders for merchandise from any of the related Benepe businesses. Throughout the series invoices and receipts are occasionally found. These items are included in the series only when they pertain to a specific letter or order. Correspondence between Benepe and the government agencies can be found in Series 4.
This series contains insurance policies, city licenses, and other miscellaneous legal documents that include, but is not limited to, court papers and property deeds.
Included are various advertisements and partial sale catalogs pertaining to merchandise sold through the various Benepe businesses. Also included in this series is a partial E. J. Owenhouse catalog of an unknown date. A complete version of this catalog is located in Special Collections at SF309.9.085.
This series contains contracts, order requests and communications between the Benepe businesses and various government agencies. Included are the flour contract for the Blackfeet and Crow reservations (1886-1887), U.S. Geological Survey correspondence and merchandise requests, the Camp Sheridan (Yellowstone National Park) hay contract (1887-1888) and the 1886 Fort Ellis hay contract. The material of this series is arranged according to the specific agency or contract. For example, a folder may include the contract and all communications between Benepe and the government agents.
Series 5 contains financial and business related documents. Included are invoices, receipts, day books, ledgers, scale record books, bank deposit books, store credit slips, and more. The boxes containing the title "Invoices/Receipts" reflect the original arrangement by Frank Benepe and all efforts were made to maintain his original order. Store charge slips do not have years attached to the dates and are filed accordingly. The series is arranged by document type.
This journal of a trip through Yellowstone Park in 1882 was written in a leather covered notebook by Lora M. Richter at age 19. The journey began on September 15 from the Richter's South Meadow Creek ranch in the Madison Valley and ended on October 8 back at the ranch. Three file folders hold this collection. The first file has an explanation of Lora Richter's life by her grandnephew Lewis A. Hughes in both handwritten and transcribed versions; a photocopy of newspaper reports on an accident to Lora's father Chris that injured his eyes; and a transcription of the diary by Mrs. T.H. Vincent (Lora Richter). The second file contains a photocopy of the original diary. The third file holds the original leather notebook diary.
(Restricted)
The Adrien L. Hess papers dealing with the administration, preparation, and promotion of science fairs for Montana High school students contain letters, printed and mimeographed catalogs, newsletters, award winner lists, and other materials documenting fairs nationally as well as in Montana. The folders have been arbitrarily arranged based on location and chronology.
Catalog of exhibits: 1957-1964; Scattered holdings of winners: 1956-1964.
[missing 1963]
Catalog of Exhibits. 1st-7th, 1950-1956, 9-13, 1958-1962.
Photocopy of a partial typewritten narrative written by Ethel V. Storm based on a conversation with her father, Maynard S. Bean, concerning the Cheyenne Indian "uprising" of 1897. In the document, Bean is paraphrased in describing the discovery of a murdered sheepherder named Hoover whose body was found near the Northern Cheyenne Indian reservation in early May, 1897 (Bean gives the date of June, 1897). The search for the body was undertaken by ranch hands led by Bean, and the subsequent confrontation between civilian and military authorities and the Cheyenne Indians is described. Bean's narrative identifies key figures in the events, which differs somewhat from official accounts recorded elsewhere. According to Ethel Storm, an edited version of the narrative appeared in the Billings Gazette on August 23, 1964.
The papers consist primarily of the James manuscript in three different stages of completion; research correspondence between James and the various sources he contacted for the biography including Jessica Donaldson Schultz, David Andrews, and other Schultz researchers; positive photocopies of primary sources from various institutions indexed by James; other research copies; photographs copied from originals held by others of Schultz, his family, and Blackfeet Indians.
Unfinished manuscript drafts written by Harry C. James, in multiple versions with corrections by James and others. James does not appear to have written the biography in precise chronological order, choosing instead to work and revise on sections independent of one another. Since the author died before completing the work the final organization can only be surmised. The chapters in folders 1-25 are unnumbered pages that appear to be the final draft of the biography. The papers have been divided by the individual batches that James had paper clipped together. The chapters in folders 26-32 appear to be an earlier draft of the work with the pages sequentially numbered in pencil. This draft contains corrected photocopies. The chapters in folders 33-46 are unsorted worksheets and earlier versions of the biography that have numerous revisions and corrections. Folder 47 contains notes pertaining to James's preliminary plan for the organization of the biography, and folder 48 two essays on Schultz written by James not intended for the biography.
Letters written by or to Harry C. James while conducting research for his biography of James Willard Schultz. Some letters have attachments. The letters in folders 1-29, along with carbons of James's query or reply, have been arranged in alphabetical order by the person or organization James was writing to, with extensive exchanges like those with Jessica Donaldson Schultz, being allocated their own folders. The letters in folders 30-35 were gathered by James into topical headings regardless of the correspondent's name.
Mostly positive photocopies of primary source material held by various institutions and individuals pertaining to James Willard Schultz and collected by Harry James. James had sorted a great number of his photocopies and given them sequential numbers, probably intending to cite them in his manuscript in their number order. He also began an index to the documents based on their numbers. These documents have been filed in box three in numerical order from 1-490, but some numbers are missing. James's index is in the first folder. Box four contains copies of correspondence between Schultz and the Houghton-Mifflin Company held by the Harvard University Library; copies of correspondence between Schultz and E.A. Brininstool; copies of Schultz's own typed memoirs; original and copies of Jessica Donaldson Schultz letters and memoirs; two pocket notebooks kept by James; two folders of clippings and miscellaneous printed matter.
[by James Willard Schultz?]
Copy prints and copy negatives of photographs from various sources collected by James for the biography. The subjects include Schultz, his family and friends, and Blackfeet Indians. Places include Fort Benton and Glacier National Park, Montana. Photographs and negatives have been place in box 5. Duplicate prints, along with two pen and ink sketches of Nataki, drawn by Katrin Wiese and a record of photographs from the Smithsonian Institute reviewed by James but apparently never ordered. The photographs have been individually titled but are otherwise unarranged and in the order placed by Harry James.
(Xerox)
Steamboat Benton in the corner
(Blackfeet camp)
(west view, Blackfeet camp)
(photocopy)
(half)
(half)
* - negatives without prints
* - negatives without prints
* - negatives without prints
* - negatives without prints
The Rick Reese Collection consists of documents, media, and transparencies were created or collected by Reese from 1981-2013. The materials in this collection have been organized into four series according to content and year. Within the series are foundational materials of the GYC, reports, correspondence, project information, and an outreach slideshow on the Greater Yellowstone area.
The contents of this series explain concept of the Great Yellowstone Ecosystem as well as the goals and purpose of the GYC via Reese’s interest and involvement in the organization. Documents include foundational materials, annual convention information, minutes, newspaper articles, and correspondence. Topics include the future of grizzly bears; possible fishing bridge closing and relocation; threats to the Park’s natural integrity through the impact of oil and gas exploration, logging, and mining. Of interest is in box 1, folder 13 correspondence with Montana Governor Ted Schwinden discussing grizzly bears and their future.
The content of this series represents functions of the GYC that Reese was included in or found important to the concept of the organization. Documents include reports, correspondence, items pertaining to the Board of Directors, Reese’s personal notes, and GYC project papers. Items of interest include Thomas McNamee’s writing about grizzly bears in box 3 as well as the addresses of Archie Carr and Ed Lewis to the coalition in box 4. Separation notices are marked with an asterisk (*). The items in this series that are restricted due to privacy concerns have been noted with a bold bracketed “R” ([R]) next to the folder’s title.
This series includes audio-cassettes, videocassette, CD, and reel-to-reel audio tape.
Volume 1, copy 2
Final Version
Rev. 3
Rev. 3
Final Images of DVD Version of 1982
Volume 2
Volume 3 Original Tape
The content in this series includes 35 mm transparency slides that correspond with the Great Yellowstone slideshow.
The Dawson County Homestead Questionnaires microfilm reel contains images of pre-printed forms of ten basic questions regarding the respondent’s knowledge of homesteading law prior to settlement, journey to Montana, accommodations, time and place of location, experiences in registering claims, and other pertinent information regarding the process.
The Delta Kappa Gamma Society. Mu Chapter records consist of materials produced by the organization and its members and include minutes, attendance roles, photos, clippings, and a charter.
Del Jenkins was interviewed by Art True while wintering in San Diego, California in 1968. True, an amateur historian, used a reel to reel recorder which he operated with some difficulty and then later transferred the recording to an audiocassette. As a result, the sound quality of the interview is marginal at best. Jenkins describes his experiences as a Yellowstone stage coach driver and anecdotes about some of the tourists he transported. The interview has been digitally rendered, but no transcription is available. In his 1975 letter forwarding the audiocassette to MSU history professor Robert Dunbar, True wrote “Del was 88 years old at the time of the taping. He wrote a book that he called “The Lucky Cowboy” about his life and experiences. Unfortunately, a woman who got hold of it for editing took out his spicy down to earth language and he decided not to publish. You can learn more about it from the Historical Society, Jackson, Wyoming. As far as I know, Del is still living. He has wintered in Sand Diego for over 20 years. That’s where I met him.”
Roy Huffman's collected and created papers were organized by him in alphabetical files by subject. Except for a few duplicated files, the papers are arranged as Roy Huffman kept them with loose papers and untitled files placed within the alphabetic sequence. The materials are mostly typewritten with some handwritten notes and letters, and include photocopies or reprints of previously published materials, reports, speeches and presentations; plans, programs, schedules, studies, and numerous papers related to his professional positions at MSU; numerous research notes and unfinished manuscript pages with bibliographical materials and citations; personal and professional correspondence; and clippings from newspapers and journals. Subjects are wide ranging but can be characterized into several categories: a) files on topics of general interest or research interest; b) files related to specific organizations, conferences, symposia or programs both professional and governmental (these may have correspondence and attachments included); c) files related to the research and publication of Roy Huffman's writings; d) files related to Montana State University (Montana State College before 1962) which may be by subject; by department; by specific positions Huffman held during his career; by committee, program, institutional or branch names; by faculty, students or individuals; or as miscellaneous items. e) correspondence: alphabetical files of a professional or personal nature maintained by Huffman plus individually named correspondence files of colleagues intimately involved with his research and writing as well as politicians and selected projects or organizations. Representation of government agencies including the Federal Farm Security Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Energy Research and Development Administration, National Science Foundation, and regional entities such as the Missouri River Basin Commission and Columbia River Basin Inter-Agency Committee, Great Plains Agricultural Council, Montana Experiment Stations and Extension Service, and the Water Resources Research Center. Publications and publishers include Big Sky Books of the Endowment and Research Foundation of MSU, the Ronald Press and various journal publications. Representative files for professional and academic interests include the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges, American Agricultural Economics Assn., Western Agricultural Economics Assn., Agricultural History Society, American Association of University Professors, Soil Conservation Society of America, Sigma Xi and others. China (People to People), Russia, Saudi Arabia (agricultural projects), and other countries have individual files. Several untitled files containing research notes, citations and a large rough draft manuscript were combined with research note files with the name Omnibus.
In 1970, both Merrill G. Burlingame and Elmer Starch wrote Roy Huffman about a proposed manuscript Huffman had been working on. The work began in the mid-60s as a book on Fairway Farms and the influence of that program. Margarita "Rita" McDonald assisted with the research and rough draft materials. It apparently evolved into a larger project to produce a book about the influence on farming by the Montana State College Agriculture Department and the Montana experience which resulted in changes in land use, farm techniques, irrigation, family farms and government assistance across the nation. Individuals of note present in files are Governor Tim Babcock, Hugo G. Eck, Nicholas Helburn, Governor Thomas L. Judge, Maurice M. Kelso, Carl F. Kraenzel, Senator Mike Mansfield, Margarita "Rita" McDonald; MSU Presidents: Leon Johnson, Carl W. McIntosh, Roland R. Renne, William J. Tietz, Jr.; Mont H. Saunderson, Elmer A. Starch, Carl F. Taeusch and M. L. Wilson. Roy Huffman's diverse interests are also reflected in files for the Museum of the Rockies, conservation and reclamation issues, arts and humanities, political and legislative issues, energy and water policies, and some personal memento and joke files.
The photographs of Thomas Brook consist of nature landscapes and town views of southwest Montana and particularly in the Twin Bridges area of Madison and Beaverhead Counties. Subjects include natural history, ranch and farming operations, bridges and bridge construction, schools and school groups, and early settlers of the Twin Bridges area. Brook organized the images by assigning sequential numbers for the first 388 photographs, but he often would group several negatives within a given number if they were similar exposures. Many of these early control numbers now bear alphabetic extensions to distinguish the separate images. Starting with image number 389, new control numbers were assigned by the processing archivist, observing a rough subject arrangement of the photographs as they were filed by the MSU library staff in 1966. Again some overlap was found amidst the negatives accompanying the prints, necessitating the assignment of alphabetic extensions for image numbers 409 and 410. Overall there are 1,057 individual images, represented by numbers 1-839. Not all prints are available, especially in the first 388, and most negatives for images numbered greater than 388 are missing. An important exception are the glass plate negatives (numbers 773-785) documenting the 1896 flood at Twin Bridges. The photographer of these images is unknown, and Brook left no clues as to how he came to own them. In some cases for images that lack a corresponding negative, duplicate prints were saved if they showed a difference in darkroom manipulation. For all the images in this collection the titles were provided by Brook either in either his negative index or on the print itself.
001, 004, 005, 007, 008, 009, 010, 011, 012, 013, 014, 016, 017, 018, 019, 020, 021, 022, 023, 025, 026, 027, 029, 030, 031, 032, 035, 036
042, 043, 044, 045, 048, 049, 050, 051, 053, 055, 056, 057, 058, 060, 064, 069, 071a, 072, 073, 076, 078a, 079, 080, 083, 087, 088, 089, 092, 093, 094, 096, 100a, 101, 103, 104, 107, 109, 111, 112, 113, 115, 117
125, 126, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 151, 156, 156b, 159, 160, 162, 163, 165, 166b, 166a, 167d, 169d, 169c, 169b, 169a, 169e
169l, 173b, 173a, 174, 175, 176, 180, 181, 183, 184b, 184a, 185b, 186, 187a, 188, 189, 190b, 190a, 191, 192, 195, 196, 202, 204, 205a, 205b, 206, 207b, 207a, 211, 212b, 212a, 214, 220, 221, 223, 224c, 224b, 224a, 225c, 225b, 225a, 227, 228c, 228b, 228a
230f, 230e, 230d, 230c, 230b, 230a, 230, 232c, 232b, 232a, 233, 235b, 235a, 236, 237c, 237b, 237a, 238, 242b, 242a, 244, 246, 248, 249, 250, 254b, 254a, 255b, 255a, 256, 259, 261b, 261a, 261d, 263b, 263a, 267, 269, 274, 276, 277b, 277a, 278, 283, 291
301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 327, 328, 329, 340, 341, 342, 343, 346a, 349a, 357c, 357b, 357a, 365, 366b, 366a, 383d, 384c, 385c, 385b, 385a, 387b, 387c, 388
389, 390, 391, 392, 393, 394, 395, 396, 397, 398, 399, 400, 401, 402, 403, 404, 405, 406, 407, 408, 409, 409b, 410, 410b, 411, 412
413, 414, 415, 416, 417, 418, 419
420, 421, 422, 423, 424, 425, 426, 427, 428b, 428c, 429, 430, 431, 432, 433, 434, 435, 436, 437, 438, 439
440, 441, 442, 443, 444, 445, 446, 447, 448, 449, 450, 451, 452, 453, 454, 455, 456, 457, 458, 459, 460, 461, 462, 463, 464, 465, 466, 467, 468, 469, 470
471, 472, 473, 474, 475, 476, 477, 478, 479, 480, 481, 482, 483, 484, 485, 486, 487, 488, 489, 490, 491, 492, 493, 494, 495, 496, 497, 498, 499
500, 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, 506, 507, 508, 509, 510, 511, 512, 513, 514, 515, 516, 517, 518, 519, 520, 521, 522, 523, 524, 525, 526, 527, 528, 529, 530
531, 532, 533, 534, 535, 536, 537, 538, 539, 540, 541, 542, 543, 544, 545, 546, 547, 548, 549, 550, 551, 552, 553, 554, 555, 556, 557, 558, 559, 560
561, 562, 563, 564, 565, 566, 567, 568, 569, 570, 571, 572, 573, 574, 575, 576, 577, 578, 579, 580
581, 582, 583, 584, 585, 586, 587, 588, 589, 590, 591, 592, 593, 594, 595, 596, 597, 598, 599, 600
601, 602, 603, 604, 605, 606, 607, 608, 609, 610, 611, 612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 617, 618, 619, 620
621, 622, 623, 624, 625, 626, 627, 628, 629, 630, 631, 632, 633, 634, 635, 636, 637, 638, 639, 640, 641, 642, 643
644, 645, 646, 647, 648, 649, 650, 651, 652, 653, 654, 655, 656, 657, 658, 659, 660, 661, 662, 663, 664, 665, 666, 667, 668, 669, 670
671, 672, 673, 674, 675, 676, 677, 678, 679, 680, 681, 682, 683, 684, 685
686, 687, 688, 689, 690, 691, 692, 693, 694, 695, 696, 697, 698, 699, 700, 701, 702, 703, 704
705, 706, 707, 708, 709, 710, 711, 712, 713, 714, 715, 716, 717, 718, 719, 720, 721, 722, 723, 724, 725, 726, 727, 728, 729, 730, 731, 732, 733, 734, 735, 736, 737, 738, 739, 740, 741, 742, 743, 744, 745, 746, 747, 748, 749
750, 751, 752, 753, 754, 755, 756, 757, 758, 759, 760, 761, 762, 763, 764, 765, 766, 767, 768, 769, 770, 771, 772
829, 830, 831, 832, 833, 834, 835, 836, 837, 839
The Rawlins diaries consist of thirty one individual annual volumes dated from 1968 to 1997 (there are two for 1981). Information in the diaries includes appointments, travel, consultations, technical data, and some personal observations of Rawlins as he worked as a consulting geologist. Many of the named Rawlins contacts are members of the Crow tribe, and most of the locations described are on the Crow Reservation and elsewhere in eastern Montana. In addition to coal, gas, and oil exploration, Rawlins advised on water well locations for named individuals. A small amount of laid-in materials such as receipts and notations have been retained in those volumes where they were found.
The letters in this collection focus on Agassiz's efforts to collect fish specimen and eggs (presumably fish eggs) from colleagues throughout New England. The first, written from Cambridge, Massachusetts in April of 1854 to Franklin Benjamin Hough, a physician, author, and chief of the forestry division of the United States Department of Agriculture from 1876-1883, details Agassiz's efforts to collect a wide variety of fish specimens. Another letter, written from Newport, Rhode Island in July 1858, is to John Whipple Potter Jenks. At the time of Agassiz and Jenks' correspondence, Jenks was a professor of zoology at the Boston Horticultural Society (1858-1860). Beginning in 1873, Jenks chaired the department of agricultural zoology at Brown University and was curator of the University's museum collections. In his letter to Jenks, Agassiz apologizes for being unable to stop in Middleboro (Massachusetts?) and requests that Jenks send eggs (presumably fish eggs) by an express messenger so, "that they should not be spoiled."
In 1902, James David Wood wrote a brief autobiographical sketch of his life. The document remained in the family and was eventually passed down to the D. V. Hagenbarth family of Dillon, Montana. In 1964 the manuscript was borrowed by Stanley Davison for transcription and editing, and then returned to the Hagenbarth family. Davison reviewed the sketch and found historical discrepancies which he noted. Wood's story gives an outline of his trip to Montana in 1864, his early residence in Virginia City, his experiences in the Nez Perce and Bannock wars, and a brief outline of his business ventures. Davison never published the manuscript, and the present location of the original is unknown.
The A.K. Best collection consists of letters, printed emails, drafts of various books, published articles, flies, and awards. Materials include business correspondence, manuscript material, published magazine articles and periodicals, photographs, and memorabilia ranging from 1983-2015. Included is a copy of Production Fly Tying with handwritten notes from Best. An interview by Best detailing his life as an angler and a fly tier can be found in the Montana State University Angling Oral History Project.
This series includes business correspondence with Orvis. The documents include a project timeline, correspondence, invoices from Best, drawings of specialty tools A.K. curated, and a letter to McKenzie Fly Tackle Company addressing the unauthorized use of Best’s name on a product.
This series contains A.K. Best’s manuscript material for his books Advanced Fly Tying, A.K.’s Fly Box, Dying and Beaching Natural Fly Tying Materials 1st edition, Dyeing and Bleaching Natural Fly Tying Materials 2nd edition, Fly Fishing with A.K., Fly Tying with A.K., Production Fly Tying 1st edition, Production Fly Tying 2nd edition, and Solitary Trouting. Additional materials include an untitled poem, as well as early drafts for magazine articles for Mid Atlantic Fly Fishing Guide, Fly Rod and Reel, The Bamboo Fly Rod, Fly Tyer Magazine, Tightloop, and The Virtual Fly Fishing Shop. This series also contains various manuscripts from authors such as John Gierach, David Klausmeyer, Derrell Martin and Taylor Streit sent to Best for review. Magazine article drafts start in Box 10, folder 3, and manuscript material from other authors begin in Box 12. This series contains oversized materials that have been separated from the series, the separation is denoted by an asterisk (*) next to the folder from which the material was removed.
(partial)
This series contains published magazine articles and periodicals written by A.K. Best ranging from 1983-2015.This series also contains interviews of and published articles written about Best that include feature articles from John Gierach.
This series includes photographs of flies A.K. Best tied, as well as meadow streams, fish, portraits of Best, and 35mm slide transparencies meant for publication. This series contains oversized materials that have been separated from the series, the separation is denoted by an asterisk (*) next to the folder from which the material was removed.
[DVD]
This series includes flies tied by A.K. Best as well as memorabilia such as certificates awarded to Best over his lifetime and a hand drawn portrait of Best by Mike Gula. This series contains oversized materials that have been separated from the series, the separation is denoted by an asterisk (*) next to the folder from which the material was removed.
The following oversized materials has been separated from Series 2, 4, and 5.
The Balgord Papers consist of letters, speeches, press releases, clippings, and legislative memoranda mostly dealing with Montana water policy and Balgord's involvement with related legislation. Particularly prominent are documents discussing the Deadman's Basin Project, the Montana legislature's hearing on water conservation, and three telegrams from United States Senator Burton K. Wheeler. The documents have been arbitrarily arranged in subject folders created either by Balgord or Robert Dunbar, the person to whom Balgord gave the material before its donation to Montana State University. Sometime in the 1970s MSU library personnel calendared the contents of the folders and that listing has been preserved as written.
(page two missing)
(Ground water problems and their relation to army water supply)
"Declaration of Vested Ground Water Rights"
(feature story about the project)
Funding for the Deadman's Basin Project
Senate Bill n. 176: "An Act Creating a Dept. of Resource Development," sponsored by Gerard, Balgord, McGowan, Brenner, Shaw, Huntley, Hilling and McElwain
session of the State Legislature of Montana. The minutes were in the possession of Senator O. P. Balgord, Chairman of the Committee. This is a copy of the original made in the MSC Registrar's Office by Martha Hawksworth.
The Gary Herbert Howells Papers consists of correspondence with customers, fellow rod builders, fly tiers, and anglers from across the world. Also included are business records from 1957-1997 that includes receipts, cashed checks, and accounting records. Additional items include fishing diaries detailing angling experiences from 1948-1975, as well as photo albums and personal slides of rivers, insects, fish, rods, family and friends.
Petereit Family History; Copy of Birth Certificate for Gary Herbert Howells; Article titled Ol’ Reverend Lang with rejection letter from Outdoor Life dates August 13, 1959; Fishing license from Idaho, Montana and Wyoming 1948-1955
Note: USB containing digital surrogates for the fishing, flies, and family slides with a key created by Gregg Messel available.
The Thatcher scrapbooks consist of two volumes. The first, which covers the years 1963-1966, deals with the Montana Centennial train and contains newspaper clippings, memorabilia, and passenger lists all dealing with the train’s organization and journey to New York in 1964. The second scrapbook contains newspaper clippings dating from 1948 to 1955 about Madison and Gallatin County pioneers, including Lilla Bogert, Frieda Bull, Elmer Cass, Mary Hunter Doane, Caroline McGill, Pete Karst, Frank “Doc” Nelson, Lester Pierstorff, and Davis Willson.
Max Worthington's personal papers have been arranged into three series. Series 1 includes: a scrapbook and many scrapbook materials from his long career which include newspaper clippings, programs, postcards, social ephemera, brochures, World War II naval papers, collected materials of personal interest (including a Richard Nixon autograph), one oral interview, testimonials and certificates. Series 2 consists of personal and professional correspondence. (Researchers are reminded that official records generated by Max Worthington in his capacity as an MSU faculty member and administrator are held within the pertinent record groups within the University Archives.) Series 3 consists of photographs. Subjects present in the collection include the Montana State "Golden Bobcats;" the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity; college football, basketball and track teams; the Helms Athletic Foundation Hall of Fame; the Montana State University Hall of Fame; Montana high school athletics; Worthington Arena; Max Worthington's retirement party; "Golden Bobcat" reunions; and the Montana Special Olympics. Individuals prominently featured are Ott Romney, J. Ashworth "Cat" Thompson, Frank Ward, Orland Ward, Valery Glynn, John "Brick" Breeden, Schubert Dyche, Marjorie Paisley, Roland R. Renne, Tony Storti, Jan Stenerud, Lones Wigger and Bill Duncan.
Series one contains materials and papers accumulated by Max Worthington from his high school years to the late 1980s. A substantial scrapbook of college days includes his sports career and his membership in the Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Photographs of classmates and fraternity brothers along with newspaper clippings, correspondence, social ephemera and brochures are present. There are numerous newspaper clipping files about the "Golden Bobcats," WWII, athletics and special events at Montana State University, legislation of the 1980s affecting the University system, the career of sports writer Bill Duncan and other diverse subjects. A comprehensive group of military records trace his service in the Naval Reserve on active duty from 1943-1946 in the Pacific Theater during WWII. His recognition as a significant athletic of the 1920-30s is represented by files of programs, tributes, souvenirs and certificates for the Montana State College Hall of Fame, Worthington Arena, and alumni reunions. Files of materials for the 1989 Montana Special Olympics, artwork of a grateful student, a group of Dorothy Worthington's employment records, legislative information of the 1980s, an audio tape interview for the 75th anniversary of the university, retirement party records, a Richard Nixon autograph and a selection of diverse memorabilia completes the series. Groups of materials are arranged in approximate chronological order.
Correspondence collected by Max Worthington has been arranged in chronological order with special files for retirement and Hall of Fame congratulatory letters and a file of letters between Max Worthington and sports writer Bill Duncan.
Collected photographs include posed and candid shots of Max Worthington; athletic events, teams and reunions; university celebrations; WWII snap shots of shipmates, shipboard activities and ports of call. Two booklets of photographs chronicle some of the life in Lae, Papua New Guinea and the Papuan natives while stationed on the U.S.A.T. Sea Barb at Milne Bay, New Guinea with additional pictures of Leyte, the Philippines, and Australia. The final group of photos are in a ring binder which chronicles Max Worthington's 1973 retirement party with friends and colleagues of the university community.
The papers consist primarily of correspondence between Merrill G. Burlingame and the law firm of Wilkinson, Cragun and Barker. The earliest letters, from 1956 to 1957, are largely contractual in nature, specifying the payment and duties expected of Burlingame by the law firm, although some historical evidence analysis is discussed. The letters from 1975-1976 concern critiques of manuscripts prepared by Michael F. Foley on the administration of the Fort Belknap and Blackfeet Indian reservations by the United States government, 1855-1950s. These manuscripts were prepared for the law firm as evidence for the plaintiffs in forthcoming hearing before the Indian Claims Commission. The collection also includes a folder of Burlingame's handwritten research notes and a folder of related printed materials, clippings, and maps.
(file copy)
(file copy)
(file copy)
(file copy)
(file copy)
Primarily financial records of the various Livingston based Lehrkind operations, including firms that were absorbed by the company such as the Park Bottling Works and the Livingston Ice Company.
(2 ledgers)
(very few entries)
1928 (2 books); 1929 (3 books); 1930 (2 books); 1931 (5 books)
1922 (2 books); 1934 (3 books); 1935 (2 books); 1936 (2 books); 1937 (2 books); 1938 (4 books)
(shows types of coal sold)
(3 books)
The collection consists of materials gathered by Professor Merrill G. Burlingame and Montana State University library personnel from documents gathered independently or found laid in the various books donated by Wallis Huidekoper in 1957. These materials include a selection of letters exchanged between Dr. Merrill G. Burlingame and Wallis Huidekoper regarding the editing of an oral history interview conducted in 1954, a 1929 letter from Edward Douglas Branch thanking Huidekoper for his favorable comments on The Hunting of the Buffalo (New York: D. Appleton and Co., 1929) and a 1938 letter from Martin S. Garretson, again thanking Huidekoper for favorable comments on his book, The American Bison (New York: New York Zoological Society, 1938). Of interest in the Garretson letter is an anecdote concerning the observation of a bison herd in the Oklahoma panhandle during the summer of 1884. The collection also includes three consecutively edited versions of an oral history interview with Huidekoper conducted by Elizabeth DeFrate and Merrill G. Burlingame on July 26, 1954 and transcribed from an audio tape which appears to have been lost. A typed bibliography of Huidekoper's articles, along with two original manuscripts he wrote concerning artist Charles M. Russell has been placed in a separate folder. Three folders of printed material consist of brochures and pamphlets written by or pertaining to Huidekoper' father, Henry Shippen Huidekoper and newspaper clippings pertaining to historic sites in the Germantown, Pennsylvania area, Wallis Huidekoper, Theodore Roosevelt, and ranching in North Dakota and Montana. Six photographs of North Dakota badlands residents circa 1880s and the Huidekoper ranch near Big Timber, Montana, circa 1956, complete the collection.
[halftone print]
(formerly accessioned as Collection 1401)
The Gertrude White papers, 1916-1917 includes original handwritten letters, envelopes, and billing statements for Mrs. Gertrude White. The three handwritten letters in this collection include: one from a Mrs. J.L. Guthrie stating that she was expected to go into labor between March 2nd and the 12th in 1917 and she wanted Mrs. Gertrude to come and help with the delivery. This letter was dated February 2, 1917 in Manhattan, Montana. Then the second letter is from Lester White to his mother, Gertrude. The letter is dated February 18,1917 in Helena, Montana. The letter describes Lester's daily activities while at the children’s home in Helena Montana. Then the third letter is from Roxana Beck, Principle of Montana Deaconess School during 1917. Written on February 28, the letter informs Gertrude how Lester was doing and provides her with a billing statement in regard to Lester. The collection also includes multiple billing statements ranging from a shoe store to a statement from the children's home Lester was residing at and envelopes that either correspond with the letters or billing statements or were just kept by Gertrude.
Sales receipt for Mrs. Walter White
Envelope
Letter to Gertrude White February 2, 1917
Envelope
Billing statement addressed to Gertrude White, 1916
Letter to Gertrude White February 18, 1917
Envelope
Billing Statement addressed to Gertrude White, 1917
Envelope
Billing statement addressed to Gertrude White, 1917
Letter to Gertrude White February 28, 1917
The printed documents in the Crow Indian Agency Fraud Hearings Collection include affidavits, letters, and statements. The documents relate to allegations of fraud at Montana's Crow Indian Agency in 1876, leveled by Captain Edward Ball against Dexter E. Clapp and Nelson Story. The affidavits detail Clapp's recollections on the receipt of shipments and refute allegations of bribery, as well as Charles Rich, John Goewey, and Warren Allen's verification of pork presented to the agency. Letters outline the charges against Clapp and Story by Ball, rebuttal of the charges leveled, as well as a description of Ball's character. The statement provided by Story refutes the charges levied by Ball. Folders 7-12 represent photocopies, microfilm, and a typed transcription of materials from the Montana Historical Society Manuscript Collection 39.
[i.e. 1876]
The compilation of Montana agricultural statistics has been shared by a variety of federal and state agencies over the years, but almost all efforts were overseen by the United States Department of Agriculture in one form or another. The press releases in this collection include those from agencies who were concerned primarily with crop and livestock production. The name of the issuing body and titles vary throughout, and as a result they were gathered by Montana State University library personnel in the order received. Some of the 'titles' are fairly consistent and could be gathered together as 'serials' but others although on the same general topics, have quite varying titles. There seem to be some related but distinctive separate serials that have been interfiled within this group; some of those are listed at the end of these notes but there could be others. PLEASE NOTE also that later issues (1982?+) of some of these titles have already been cataloged as serials from the later issuing body, Montana Agricultural Statistics Service.
Issuing Body Changes and Title: these are the major changes but there are other variations within each date.
March 13, 1920-June 1, 1921 - United States. Department of Agriculture. Bureau of Crop Estimates. (Office of Field Agent and Office of Agricultural Statistician sometimes were included and sometimes neither was included.)
July 1,1921-November 12, 1925 - Montana Cooperative Crop Reporting Service (United States. Department of Agriculture. Bureau of Markets and Crop Estimates. cooperating with Montana State College. Extension Service. and Montana. State Department of Agriculture, Labor and Industry). Also Montana Cooperative Crop and Livestock Reporting Service was used and some had neither; on some (State and Federal) was included.
December 1925-February 1926 - varying names
Montana Agriculture Statistics:
March 1926-August 1930 - United States. Department of Agriculture. Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Division of Crop (and) (and) Livestock Estimates and Montana. State Department of Agriculture. The Division of State Publicity was sometimes included with the latter name and sometimes not.
September 1930-June 1939 - State-Federal Crop Reporting Service. Office of the Agricultural Statistician but not consistently; sometimes it was just United States. Department of Agriculture. Bureau of Agricultural Economics. (and sometimes Office of the Agricultural Statistician alone).
July 1, 1939-February 1942 - United States. Department of Agriculture. Agricultural Marketing Service
March 1942-June 15, 1945 - United States. Department of Agriculture. Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Office of the Agricultural Statistician
June 23, 1945-November 1953 - Montana Federal Agricultural Statistical Service
December 1953- Montana Crop (") (and) Livestock Reporting Service (United States. Department of Agriculture. Agricultural Marketing Service and Montana. Department of Agriculture. Agricultural Statistics)
Titles:
Montana Crop Report was on the earlier reports and also Montana Crop and Livestock Report but the former was predominantly used and appears to run through all the years. Annual livestock report, Montana annual crop summary and December crop report, Montana Apple Report and Montana Potato Report were also earlier titles used. Among the many other titles: Pig Crop Report, Montana Range and Livestock Report, Montana Farm Prices, Montana Honey Report, Montana Hatchery Report, Montana Lamb Report, Montana Crop Statistics by Counties, Wheat Utilization, Alfalfa Seed, Agricultural Prices, etc.
These are the related but distinctive serials that may have been interfiled with this collection:
Montana Dairy Products Report fairly consistently issued from the Montana Cooperative Dairy Reporting Service first and then jointly from USDA. Bureau of Agricultural Economics and Montana. State Department of Agriculture. Dairy Division
Montana Quarterly Grain Stocks Report issued by USDA. Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Office of Agricultural Statistician and later including the Montana. State Department of Agriculture. Grain Division.
Weather-Crop Report and all its varying earlier titles is already a separately cataloged title in S600.62.M9W42=Special Collections
Weekly Station Reports of the Division of Dry Land Agriculture from the Bureau of Plant Industry, U.S. Department of Agriculture
It is possible that distinctive serials may be removed from this collection in the future for separate cataloging. The documents have been chronologically arranged.
The collection focuses on the professional work and personal lives of both Bob and Gennie DeWeese, including sketches of commissioned artwork (murals for Bob, book illustrations for Gennie). It has examples of art done by both, such as illustrations done by Gennie DeWeese for the book Hamlet's Planets, items related to the Bob and Gennie DeWeese Gallery, and exhibitions such as Robert DeWeese, a Retrospective.
Also within the collection is correspondence with other Montana artists such as Jerry Rankin, Jessie Wilber and Frances Senska, reflecting the DeWeese's extensive social and professional network with creatives of significane in twentieth century Montana.
The collection also has a large variety of exhibit catalogs and flyers for the Yellowstone Art Museum and the Missoula Art Museum, among others. In addition to examples of his artwork, the collection also has items from Bob DeWeese's career as an art professor at Montana State College (now Montana State University).
This series includes correspondence, teaching materials, notes and student papers. Series one is divided among 2 sub-series, personal and education/teaching.
Personal papers and items of Bob DeWeese such as his resume and Army papers.
Two types of papers are represented in this subseries: Papers related to Bob DeWeese's time as a student, and papers related to his tenure as a professor at Montana State Collage, including lesson plans, student work, and administration records.
Series 2 contains art projects and materials, notes, newspaper clippings, correspondence and photographs.
Includes material related to workshops, murals, graphic projects)
Much of the correspondence is from Lou Penfield.
Includes art lists and prices, notes and correspondence with galleries, gallery announcements
Files taken from a filing cabinet kept by Bob DeWeese, includes drafts of projects, artwork, correspondence, and documents relating to shows and workshops that Bob participated in. The materials give insight into his working process and what items he kept over the years.
This series contains examples of Bob's work, such as a portfolio of sketches.
Correspondence contains letters, condolence notes and newspaper clippings. (note that this series is not exhaustive and that other correspondence may be found interspersed throughout the rest of the collection)
This series contains personal effects, art materials, awards, newspaper clippings and gallery opening materials. Series 4 is divided into 2 subseries, personal and awards.
This subseries contains documents about Gennie DeWeese's family history, as well as personal items she kept over the years.
Collection of awards given to Gennie DeWeese.
Series 5 contains art projects, exhibition materials, notes, lists of artwork details, illustrations and newspaper clippings. The series is split into two subseries, projects and exhibitions.
Examples of Gennie DeWeese's work such as sketches of murals, illustrations for projects such as Hamlet's Planets.
Includes art lists and prices, notes and correspondence with galleries, gallery announcements displaying Gennie's works, as well as ones she may have been interested in.
Series 6 includes gallery materials, notes, guest books, publicity materials, newspaper clippings, press releases and correspondence.
Tina DeWeese's compilation of Gennie's life in 444 photographs.
Movie by Michael Sexton.
By Martin Holt.
MSU Film and TV production by Bill Neff.
Video of retrospective at Yellowstone Art Center.
Compilation of photos of Gennie by Tina DeWeese.
The DeWeese website was created and is maintained by Tina DeWeese to document and promote the DeWeeses' legacy. It includes photographs, written tributes, and other materials.
The Campbell family papers are positive photocopies of original documents. The collection includes four business related letters written to James B. Campbell from New York, Michigan, Washington D.C. and Virginia City, Montana Territory from 1836 to 1868; one letter from James B. Campbell to A. J. Jackson of Galena, Illinois, written from St. Charles, Missouri in 1862 which discusses Campbell's plans to move west; an 1873 letter from Gurdon Campbell to his mother describing a flood at Gallatin City; an unsigned 1877 letter, possibly from Gurdon Campbell to his sister Fannie, with a remarkably sympathetic account of the Nez Perce pursuit and the writer's friend, Looking Glass; two letters from Rebecca Jackson of Galena, Illinois to Fannie Campbell describing the death of her mother, Sarah Campbell. A single folder of legal documents and promissory notes pertaining to the Campbell family dated from 1867 to 1899 complete the collection.
The Morris State Bank records have been divided into two series which roughly conform to the creating entities, although given the interrelated nature of the owners a precise separation is not possible. It is logical to assume that both sets of records were maintained by the bank throughout its operational history. Series one, Morris State Bank, represents primarily the outgoing correspondence of the firm, along with some financial information such as balance ledgers and deposit information. A single letterbox of correspondence and related documents alphabetically arranged was included with the bank records, but it is not apparent if the bulk of these files pertain to bank business or the various mining properties in which the owners had an interest. Series two, Mining company records, includes payroll registers for the Pony Gold Mining Company, the Indian Mining Company, and the various business operations of Elling and Morris. A broken series of deposit receipts and related documents for the Indian Mining Company from 1906 to 1908 have been chronologically arranged.
Outgoing correspondence of the banking firm from cashiers Philip H. (Harry) Gohn and Fred G. Smith pertaining to a wide variety of business matters. The correspondence is recorded in a series of nine letterpress books which bear the impression of outgoing typed letters on light tissue paper. A series of incoming letters and related financial documents are also included. The record books are primarily accounting registers which document the bank's financial status at any given time.
Primarily deposit slips from the Indian Gold Mining company along with payroll registers from various mining and other business operations owned by Elling and Morris.
The family papers of Richard H. Clow consist of letters he wrote from Massachusetts and Virginia to his sister Agnes during the Civil War, a letter he wrote from Fort Buford, North Dakota to his sister Bertha during his Indian Wars service, letters from Clow’s sister Bertha to his daughter Cora, and other correspondents from other family members. Most letters contain family news and some local conditions in San Jose, California, Hawaii, and Seattle, Washington. Sixty family photographs are also included, along with a biography of Richard H. Clow titled Rough Enough (2012) written by Richard H. McBee, Clow’s great-grandson and various genealogy notes gathered by McBee. The items in this collection have been individually calendared.
2nd Enlistment for three years
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
with 2 envelopes
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
with envelope
RHC ancestors
(two copies)
RHC and immediate family
(two copies)
RHC siblings and families
RHC siblings and families
RHC siblings and families
RHC enlistment records from NARA, genealogy notes
This collection is made up primarily of literary manuscripts written by Norman Strung. There are rough and final drafts of the books he wrote along with galley proofs. In addition to his feature article manuscripts is correspondence that pertains to his writings, such as acceptances and rejections of his articles. Almost all of his articles are on the subject of the outdoors. The material was first sorted into series and chronologically arranged thereafter, except in the case of the unpublished or date of publication unknown manuscripts. These materials are arranged alphabetically according to title.
These are all book manuscripts written by Norman Strung. These manuscripts fit into different groups, the books Norman wrote alone, the books Strung wrote with others, the books he edited and the books he just contributed an article and chapter to. The manuscripts are organized chronologically by the publication dates.
proofs
charts
outline
printed draft
presentation
working copy
working copy cont.
final copy, p. 1-201
final copy p. 202-445
rough draft and paste up
rough draft
miscellaneous chapter notes and correspondence
presentation
3rd copy and acceptance letter with terms
proofs
p. 174-180
correspondence
rough draft
4th copy
rough draft
correspondence
cast-off galleys of book
outline
rough draft
4th copy of final draft
manuscript
correspondence
3rd and 4th copy
rough draft
galleys
proofs
manuscript
final copy
published as a chapter in book
correspondence
forward
food knives
outdoor knives
shop and garden knives
manuscript and illustrations
illustrations
3rd copy
Macmillian, correspondence
Macmillian, covers
Macmillian, rough draft pt. 1
Macmillian, rough draft pt. 2
Macmillian, 3rd copy pt. 1
Macmillian, 3rd copy pt. 2
Macmillian, galley proof pt. 1
Macmillian, galley proof pt. 2
proofs
correspondence of authors
correspondence between editors and publishing company
product and company lists and addresses researched
outline
layout examples
quotes for fillers
illustrations, fillers and notes
word tally
index
section by John Barsness
big game section
black powder/collecting section
care and repair section
hunting handguns section
collect and display section
custom gun section
plinking section
reload section
small game section
chapter 1, big game ideas
U.S. exotic big game section
final African game section
1st original African game section
target section
upland game/dogs/waterfowl section
varmint section
rough draft pt1
rough draft pt. 2
galley proofs pt. 1
galley proofs pt. 2
galley proofs pt. 3
galley proofs index
4th copy
4th copy pt. 2
original manuscript pt. 1
original manuscript pt. 2
published as a chapter
draft pt. 1
draft pt. 2
Manuscripts of magazine feature articles written by Norman Strung, along with pertinent correspondence. Some manuscripts were written under several various pseudonyms for mostly sports/outdoor magazines. The other names Strung sometimes used were Bart Yaeger and Asouf Barkee. Also included are articles Norman Strung "ghostwrote" for another man by the name of Walter Cook. The articles are arranged chronologically beginning with the earliest year. Two subseries divide these articles by those whose publication can be confirmed and those whose publication is uncertain.
p. 54, no article but correspondence
p. 30-31+, article and correspondence
p. 12+
no article but correspondence
p. 26-28, no article but correspondence
no article but correspondence
p. 102-108, no article but correspondence
p. 68+, article and correspondence
p. 28+, article and correspondence
article and correspondence
article and correspondence
p. 18+, article and correspondence
p. 22-27
p. 4-8
p. 40+, no article but correspondence
p. 34-38, article and correspondence
p. 40+, article and correspondence
p. 20-25, article and correspondence
p. 32+, correspondence but no article
p. 74+, article and correspondence
p. 28+, article and correspondence
p. 74+
p. 36-39
p. 42+, article and correspondence
p. 46+, article and correspondence
p. 24-27, article and correspondence
p. 50, article and correspondence
p. 112-120, article and correspondence
p. 106-111, article and correspondence
p. 21, article and correspondence
p. 4-10, correspondence but no article
article and correspondence
p. 55-57+, article and correspondence
p. 22+, article and correspondence
p. 52, article and correspondence
p. 26+
article and correspondence
p. 16+, article and correspondence
p. 63+
p. 38+, article and correspondence
p. 52+, article and correspondence
p. 10-12, article and correspondence
p. 42-46
p. 30+, article and correspondence
article and correspondence
p. 26-29, article and correspondence
p. 60-62
p. 19+, article and correspondence
p. 76+, article and correspondence
p. 26+
p. 12-14
p. 102-104, article and correspondence
p. 71+, article and correspondence
p. 73+, article and correspondence
p. 18+, article and correspondence
p. 230+, article and correspondence
p. 49+, article and correspondence
p. 12-14, article and correspondence
p. 33+, article and correspondence
p. 57+, article and correspondence
p. 48, article and correspondence
article and correspondence
p. 26, correspondence and article
p. 28+
p. 42+
p. 32-36, article and correspondence
p. 74-77, article and correspondence
p. 46-51, article and correspondence
p. 36+, article and correspondence
p. 52, article and correspondence
p. 38-39
p. 170-172+, article and correspondence
p. 11-18, article and correspondence
p. 72+, article and correspondence
p. 58-59, article and correspondence
p. 24, article and correspondence
p. 26-28, article and correspondence
p. 19R, article and correspondence
article and correspondence
p. 40
p. 4-5
p. 125
p. 127
p. 58
p. 44+, article and correspondence
article and correspondence
article and correspondence
p. 24+, article and correspondence
p. 84
p. 84
p. 84
p. 34+, article and correspondence
p. 44-45
p. 98-100, article and correspondence
p. 71-72, article and correspondence
p. 88
p. 53-60, article and correspondence
p. 67, article and correspondence
p. 97
p. 81-82
p. 34
p. 52
p. 62+, article and correspondence
p. 107
p. 46+, article and correspondence
p. 83, for copy of typed article see Sports Afield Outdoor Almanac, 1976
p. 86
p. 128, article and correspondence
p. 31
p. 40
p. 38, article and correspondence
p. 62
p. 44
p. 41
p. 39
p. 37
p. 80, for copy of typed article see Sports Afield Outdoor Almanac, 1976
p. 112+, article and correspondence
p. 41, article and correspondence
p. 108
p. 22
p. 84, article and correspondence
p. 44
p. 93
p. 45
p. 90
p. 86
p. 89
p. 88
p. 19
p. 54
p. 60
p. 68
p. 86
p. 90
p. 85
p. 71
p. 58
p. 29
p. 114
p. 16, article and correspondence
p. 94
p. 128
p. 124
p. 122
p. 64, article and correspondence
p. 44
p. 41
p. 102
p. 105
p. 103
p. 71, article and correspondence
article and correspondence
article and correspondence
p. 56, article and correspondence
p. 101
p. 42
p. 92
p. 95
p. 4
p. 8
p. 7
p. 42
p. 55
p. 13
p. 66
p. 87
p. 112
p. 14
p. 85
p. 116
p. 114
p. 27
p. 42
p. 95
p. 158, article and correspondence
p. 43
p. 128
p. 43-44
p. 117
p. 121
p. 29
p. 66, article and correspondence
p. 52
p. 119
p. 44, published under name of Walter Cook
p. 96, article and correspondence
p. 80, article and correspondence
p. 66, article and correspondence
p. 45
p. 86
p. 8, article and correspondence
p. 29, no article only correspondence
p. 62
p. 44
p. 76
p. 51
p. 42, article and correspondence
p. 88A
p 42
p. 44
p. 90
p. 42
article and correspondence
p. 20, article and correspondence
p. 21
p. 40
p. 40
p. 68
p. 74, article and correspondence
p. 58, article and correspondence
p. 72
p. 70
p. 46
p. 87A, article and correspondence
p. 98, article and correspondence
p. 70
p. 4-7
p. 19-20, article and correspondence
p. 20-23
p. 70+
p. 89
p. 48, no article only correspondence
p. 14+
p. 47+
p. 42, no article only correspondence
p. 80+, article and correspondence
p. 88, article and correspondence
p. D-E
p. 112-118
p. D-E
p. 44, no article only correspondence
p. 44, no article only correspondence
p. 42-45+, written under name of Walter Cook, no article only correspondence
p. 34
p. 100
p. A-C, article and correspondence
p. 38
p. 60+, article and correspondence
p. 48+, article and correspondence
p. 74+, article and correspondence
p. 89
p. 57+, article and correspondence
p. 42+, article and correspondence
p. 98+, article and correspondence
p. 40
p. 78, article and correspondence
p. 38
p. 76
p. 76, no article only correspondence
p.52-61
p. 18-20
p. 80
p. 72-75, article and correspondence
p. 42+, article and correspondence
p. 24+, article and correspondence
p. 50
p. 62+, article and correspondence
p. 87
p. D-E
p. 58
p. 81+
p. 15+
p. 62+
p. 126
p. 127, no article only correspondence
p. D-E, article and correspondence
p. 94+
p. 26+
p. 96
p. 2+
p. 109-110
p. 40
p. D-E
p. 104
p. 28+
p. 44
p. 50+, article and correspondence
p. 78+
p. 24+
p. D-E, article and correspondence
p. 46+, article and correspondence
p. 22+
p. 28-41
p. 16
p. 26+
p. 32+
p. 54
p. 54
p. 26+
p. 72+
p. 56, article and correspondence
p. A-C
p. 30+
p. 46
p. 44
p. A-X, article and correspondence
p. 38+
p. A-C, article and correspondence
p. 40
p. 36+, article and correspondence
p. 38+
p. 40, article and correspondence
p. 40+, article and correspondence
p. A-C, article and correspondence
p. 16+
p. 26-29, article and correspondence
p. 48
p. 32+
p. 52, written under pseudonym of Bart Yeager
p. 102+, article and correspondence
p. 28+
p. 54+, article and correspondence
p. A-C
p. F, article and correspondence
p. 30+
p. 66+
p. 36+
p. 46+
p. F-H
p. 8+
p. 24+
p. 30-32
p. 24+, for copy of typed article see Scotch Game Call: Hunting, 1979
p. 32+
p. 15
p. 82
p. 28+
p. 38+
p. 18+
p. 38+
p. 34+
p. 49+, article and correspondence
p. A-C
Manuscripts whose publication is uncertain. Often time accompanying the manuscripts is the title of the magazine but with no other information given. Most often just the manuscript is included. These manuscripts are arranged alphabetically because no date is available for any. The last seven articles in this subseries were ghost written by Norman Strung for Walter Cook. Their dates of publication are unknown and they are also arranged alphabetically.
Published magazine articles either about Norman Strung or about something he wrote, such as a book review. Also included are published pictures that he took or that he appears in that appeared in a magazine. This series is arranged chronologically by publication date. Also included is correspondence he had with various editors dealing with articles not found in other series.
correspondence and magazine
magazine and correspondence
correspondence and magazine
p. 50
Magazine articles that were published and had no accompanying manuscript or correspondence. They are arranged chronologically according to publication date.
p. 42-43
p. 28-29
p. 14+
p. 40
p. 24-27
p. 68-73
p. 65-66
p. 55-56
p. 83
p. 74
p. 82
p. 57-58
p. 106, 107
p. 33-34
p. 60-64+
"Many Uses of the Inner Tube", "Quick Camper Removal", copy of this article also appeared in Sports Afield, October 1974, Sports Afield Almanac, 1976, p. 94, 43, 95
p. 88-91
p. 16-18+
p. 48
p. 82
p. 70, 66
p. 70+
p. 40
p. 42-43
p. 39+
p. 102
p. 100
p. 76
p. 60+ no copy of article in magazine available
p. 100
p. 38
p. 86
p. 16-17+, article also appeared in Scotch Game Call Hunting Annual, 1977, p. 16-18+
p. 65
Letters, journals, diary and miscellaneous documents created by William S. Prentiss, Roderick Prentiss, William Prentiss, and their descendants. Nine letters were written by Roderick to his brother, William which describe his experiences as a cadet at the United States Naval Academy and an officer serving aboard the United States Naval vessels Portsmouth, Crusader, and Monongahela. The letters describe student life, shipboard incidents, and fellow shipmates in some detail. Two additional letters from Roderick were written to his father, William S. Prentiss, just days before Roderick's death during the Battle of Mobile. These letters describe Roderick's religious conversion and presentment of death in addition to preparations for the upcoming fight. One letter from William S. Prentiss to his wife Mary discusses the aftermath of their son's death, and two additional letters to William S. Prentiss from William B. Lewis and Oliver Ambrose Batcheller, officers on the USS Monongahela, give additional details on Roderick's death. Three bound journals kept by Roderick document his service on the Plymouth, Portsmouth, and San Jacinto. Much of the information in these journals is as detailed as a ship's log, but although often signed by the ship's commander, they do not appear to be the official log for any of the vessels. The overland trail diary of William Prentiss documents his departure from LaGrange Indiana and subsequent journey to the gold fields of Montana Territory. Prentiss traveled with several other men, following a route along the Platte River in present day Nebraska to Fort Laramie. From that point they veered northwest and followed the Bridger Trail from present day Caspar, Wyoming and through the Big Horn basin. After reaching the Yellowstone River they went through the Bozeman Pass and ended their journey at Virginia City. The diary records Prentiss's unsuccessful time searching for gold in Alder Gulch and his decision to return to Indiana after reading of his brother's death in a Salt Lake City newspaper. The route home followed the Virginia City-Salt Lake City trail to Soda Springs, and then southeast to Fort Bridger before again turning east across Nebraska. The diary describes travel companions and trail incidents in varying detail. The collection also includes transcriptions of Roderick's letters, some of his journals, and William's overland trail diary prepared in 1987 by his great-great granddaughter, Carol Opstad Jaeger. A single folder of miscellaneous documents, including an unidentified reminiscence by a Prentiss family descendant, is included. The items in this collection have been calendared by genre and thereafter in chronological order.
(also bound with ) Roderick Prentiss, USS Portsmouth, personal journal of cruise, January 7, 1860 - June 30, 1861
The Patten Family Papers contain: correspondence; biographical materials; case files; printed materials; school notes and artwork; memorabilia; and photographs. Series are arranged according to document type and files are generally arranged chronologically within each series. The earlier documents, 1895-1900 primarily pertain to F.E.W. Patten and George Y. Patten. The documents between 1900 and the 1920s generally pertain to George Y. Patten and his first marriage to Eleanor Ferris and their daughter Margaret. The later documents from the 1920s to 1986 refer mainly to George and his second wife, Frances Smith Patten. Correspondence contains the personal correspondence of F.E.W. and Mary Patten, and George and Frances Patten. Letters from Frances Patten while she was in the Middle East as an American Field Staff agent are extensive. George Y. Patten's professional correspondence is organized within his case files and pertain to such topics as the Montana Automobile Association, the West Gallatin Highway into Yellowstone National Park, and the establishment of a Lewis and Clark Memorial. Correspondents in these files include Senator Burton K. Wheeler, Horace Albright, and Oscar O. Mueller. Biographical Materials holds news clippings, George Y. Patten's early scrapbook, and Eleanor Ferris Patten's description of her childhood in the American West. Subject Files have been divided into two subseries: One contains Frances Smith Patten's case files, the other contains portions of George Y. Patten's legal case files. Printed materials include pamphlets and news clippings on art, Montana history and international travel. School Notes and Records relates entirely to Margaret Patten's secondary school work and shows her interest and endeavors in visual art. Memorabilia refers to Margaret Patten's scrapbook and items collected by Frances Patten. Photographs refer mainly to Frances Smith Patten's Extension Service work and to her marriage to George Y. Patten. Earlier photographs of the Patten family are found in George Y. Patten's and Margaret Patten's scrapbooks and are filed in the Biographical Materials and Memorabilia series respectively.
Correspondence contains incoming and outgoing letters from members of the Patten family and are arranged chronologically. Early correspondence, prior to 1900, refer to F.E.W. Patten's life and death. The later correspondence contains Frances Patten's letters to Julia Martin, George Y. Patten's cousin, and describe Frances' experiences in the Middle East as an American Field Staff agent, 1956-1964. The majority of George Y. Patten's correspondence are integral to his legal work and are arranged within his case files in the Subject Files series.
Biographical Materials contains newspaper clippings, George Patten's scrapbook of his family life at the turn of the century, and a short pioneering account by Eleanor Ferris Patten telling of her early childhood in the American West. George Y. Patten's scrapbook contains both news clippings and photographs from 1892-1910. All other photographs are in Series 8, Photographs.
Subject files contain Frances Smith Patten's extension work case files from 1925 to 1929 and portions of George Y. Patten's legal case files from the 1920s to 1949. The Subject Files series has been divided into two subseries according to creator. Subseries 1 contains Frances Patten's case files, and Subseries 2 contains George Y. Patten's files.
Frances Smith Patten's Extension Work files are the yearly reports she wrote documenting her work in either Kansas or Flathead County, Montana. They contain information on 4-H clubs, women's/girls' clubs, home economics displays at fairs, women's camps, and clothing design and costs. Photographs have been removed from the files, assigned numbers 7 through 84, and have been placed in Series 8, Photographs. Each removal number has been labeled on its original case file page.
Portions of George Y. Patten's legal case files have been separated according to both document type and subject and have been arranged within each subject category chronologically. Files 1-31 refer to his work regarding Montana's highways; files 32-36 contain; files pertaining to the Montana Automobile Association and refer to gasoline taxes and federal funds for road construction, files 37-43 refer to the establishment of a Lewis and Clark Memorial and its proposed location at Bozeman, Montana. File 44, Patten's correspondence with Oscar O. Mueller, involves questions on Montana history. The files 1-31 pertaining to Montana's highways has been subdivided according to specific highways or projects. Files 1-18 refer almost solely to the construction and up keep of the West Gallatin Highway into Yellowstone National Park. Files 19-22 generally contain information on the Bridger Canyon Highway, and files 23-31 generally hold information on Highway 10 and other miscellaneous road projects. There is some overlap in subject materials.
Financial Records contains George Y. Patten's early family and business financial registers.
Printed materials include published works and documents collected by Margaret and Frances Smith Patten. Pamphlets refer to art, art exhibitions, Montana history, and Extension Service work. News clippings from the 1970s focus on Frances Patten's continued interest in world travel, and Montana life and communities. Printed materials are arranged chronologically.
School Notes are arranged chronologically and contain Margaret Patten's secondary and post-school work. Her written works and 1920-1921 school annual are in box 4. Her artwork, found in box 5, contains art exercises in pencil, ink, watercolor, and acrylic. Finished works are found in Box 5, file 2.
Memorabilia contains objects, some photos and documents collected by either Margaret or Frances Patten. Margaret Patten's scrapbook dates from 1911-1920 and relates her interests and social activities during this time. Frances Patten's memorabilia are limited and contain primarily placecards from and invitations to social gatherings.
All photographs are printed in black and white, and the majority pertain to Frances Patten's work as a home economics instructor for Extension Services and for the Department of Home Economics at Montana State College. Photos in folders 8-12 were removed from the case files in Series 3, subseries 1, and bear the same number indicated on the pages from which they were removed. Frances Patten's marriage to George Y. Patten and subsequent family life is also documented. Missing are any photos of her work in the Middle East. Photographs which were glued to scrapbook pages, and which could not be removed without damage remain in George Y. Patten's scrapbook in box 1, file 15, and in Margaret Patten's scrapbook in Box 6, file 1.
The Suckley papers consist of three autographed letters he received from Isaac I. Stevens, a newspaper clipping, and two engravings of Stevens printed during the Civil War. The earliest letter, dated October 2, 1853, Flathead Village, St. Mary’s Valley, gives Suckley his specific orders for exploration by the most practical route to Olympia, Washington Territory. The second letter, dated April 18, 1853 is a “true copy” of an order written by George Simpson of the Hudson Bay House, Lachine, Canada. The order advises all Hudson Bay employees to extend courtesies and supplies to Isaac Stevens and his surveying party while passing through the northwest on their surveying trip. This letter has a handwritten endorsement by Stevens dated October 3, 1853, St. Mary’s Valley, for Suckley’s use during his reconnaissance. The final letter was written by Stevens on August 4, 1858 from Washington, D. C., requesting that Suckley provide him with specific information on various rapids along the Columbia River and river boat navigation possibilities. The newspaper clipping is from the December 30, 1859 edition of the Puget Sound Herald and concerns a critique of the territorial governor’s recently published message. The engravings are a formal portrait of Stevens and a depiction of his death at the battle of Chantilly, Virginia.
Letter, written by Samuel O’Connell to Frederick Linfield, in Bozeman, Montana, that describes the arrest of the Lakota warrior Rain-in-the-Face by Captain Thomas Custer in 1874. In the letter, O’Connell also points out inaccuracies of an accompanying newspaper clipping regarding the topic.
The reports in this University Archives accession have been arranged in five series: County Agents, Indian Reservation Agents, Special Projects, Specialists, and Administration. A sixth series of duplicate reports microfilmed from the holdings of the National Archives and Records Administration, forms the last series.
Over the years as the agency evolved, county extension agents and home demonstration agents have assumed the responsibility to maintain offices where citizens can get information on agriculture, home economics, urban horticulture and related fields. These agents have worked with local people in developing educational programs such as the 4-H clubs, and encouraging local leadership by providing training and encouragement. Inherent in these duties has been a charge to keep accurate records and use them for evaluating the effectiveness of their work by submitting to the state and federal offices annual reports. In early years, the reports were typed with multiple carbon paper duplicates, with the original retained by the county office. The carbon copies sent to Washington, D. C. were eventually transferred to the National Archives where they were retained until 1954 when they were microfilmed and subsequently destroyed. (The microfilmed copies have been placed in Series 6 of this accession.) The folders in this series have been arranged alphabetically by county, and then chronologically within that county sort. Not all counties had an individual agent assigned to them, and in those cases where the agent's responsibilities included more than one county, the first county named has been used for the alphabetical sorting. Although the original folder titles have been retained, the following abbreviations have been used: C.A.=County Agent; H.D.A.=Home Demonstration Agent; A.A.=Associate Agent.
In the early years of the Extension Service, agents posted in counties adjacent to Montana's Indian reservations assumed some of the duties associated with working for the various tribes on an ad hoc basis, but beginning in 1955 agents were specifically assigned to the task. Six of Montana's reservations had an assigned agent, all initially supervised by Verne Dusenberry. As in the case of the county agents, Indian reservation extension agents filed annual reports on their activities. The folders in this series have been arranged alphabetically by reservation name, and then chronologically within that reservation name sort.
Several individual agricultural communities were assigned their own agents in addition to the county agents. The Huntley, Milk River, Sun River and Western Montana irrigation projects had their own agents who also filed annual reports. The folders in this series have been arranged alphabetically by project name, and then chronologically within that project name sort.
Several individual agricultural communities were assigned their own agents in addition to the county agents. The Huntley, Milk River, Sun River and Western Montana irrigation projects had their own agents who also filed annual reports. The folders in this series have been arranged alphabetically by project name, and then chronologically within that project name sort.
Annual and monthly reports issued by the Montana Extension Service director and subordinate officers such as the county agent leader, home demonstration agent leader, and 4-H club leader. Some correspondence files are also present in this series. The folders in this series have been arranged alphabetically by the administrative officer's title, and then chronologically within that name sort. Occasionally the officer's name is included.
In 1952 the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) decided to reduce the size of Record Group 33, Extension Service Records, by microfilming the annual reports submitted by agents in the various states, including Montana. These reports were, in most cases, carbon duplicates of the reports already on file at individual state offices and the offices of individual agents, but important exceptions remained. For example, sometimes photographs submitted with the report forwarded to Washington were not duplicated in the report retained at the state level. Also, additions to the annual reports held by the state and individual agents' offices occasionally were not sent to Washington and therefore not filmed. Since the potential for significant differences exists, the film has been retained as a separate series in this archives record group. NARA filmed the records in rough chronological order, with county agents, specialists, Indian agents, and administrative reports all mixed together by year. A comprehensive inventory of the microfilm reels, with a cross index, is included in Box 99.
On January 28, 1966, Carolyn Riebeth typed a lengthy letter to Minnie Paugh, the Special Collections librarian for Montana State University. Paugh had contacted Riebeth to inquire about various early day residents of Crow Agency and the Crow reservation. Riebeth chose to describe in great detail rancher Frank Michael Heinrich (1869-1928) and his cattle operation on the reservation in the early twentieth century. Riebeth's letter describes the Heinrich cattle roundups that she attended as a girl and biographical information about Heinrich including his later activities as a Hardin, Montana banker.
The Michael Langohr diary is a typed transcript of entries which describe his daily activities as the first supervisor of the Gallatin National Forest in southwest Montana. Information includes synopsis of visitation to check on grazing and timber lessees, weather conditions, and travel distances. Entries are typically very succinct. Final pages record applications of varying sorts such as grazing and timber leases.
The Big Hole Commercial Company records consist of three daily cash book volumes recording transactions from 1907 to 1914. Information includes the chronological listing of each customer's name, a brief synopsis of their purchases, and the amount. The volumes most likely record transactions at the company's Wisdom location.
Materials accumulated by George Mueller, grandson of Cook, on the Cook-Folsom Expedition. The collection includes a copy of the Cook-Folsom diary manuscript as written by Chestnut; a typescript of the Cook-Folsom diary; Cook's remarks on the Park's 50th anniversary; correspondence with J.E. Haynes, V.K. Chestnut, Park personnel, Horace Albright, Aubrey Haines, Calvin Coolidge, and Joseph Dixon; and photographs of Cook and others, mostly taken for the Park's 50th anniversary.
The by-laws of the Columbus Creamery Company consist of four handwritten pages with signatures of the officers and stockholders. The original five articles of the by-laws were adopted March 31, 1906. They address: authorization to construct a facility, state the purpose of the company is to manufacture butter and cheese from milk obtained from local milk producers, delineates the selling of shares to stockholders, designates it as a cooperative, sets rules as to the disbursement of dividends, defines stockholders' meetings, establishes officers and a board of directors as well as their respective duties, and outlines the creation and issue of stocks. The by-laws were amended on June 5, 1906 to establish rules regarding borrowing money for company operations.
The documents in this collection consist mostly of letters sent by Sweeney to Thorpe with detailed instructions on handling livestock on the property and what improvements to pay for. Also included is a schoolgirl's letter, likely written by Aline ("Ellen") Anceney, regarding a school at Spring Hill, and a letter from Episcopal priest Frank B. Lewis inquiring about local interest in a church service to be held in Thorpe's area.
Letter referring to difficulties between Charles Spafford and Elijah M. Dumphey regarding livestock.
Letter directing Thorpe to make an agreement with William Perks for management of the property. Mentions T.C. Power and his trip to Corinne, Utah Territory.
Letter advising that Davis had ordered the Gallatin County Sheriff to proceed with the sale and settlement of the Sweeney vs. Spafford lawsuit.
Letter responding to Thorpe's report of the sheriff's sale of the Spafford property and promise to follow up with instructions for an agreement with William Perks.
Letter forwarding a memoranda of agreement for the disposition of livestock and property currently occupied by William Perks. Particular detail on horse breeding.
Letter instructing Thorpe on the details of an agreement with William Perks, a farm or ranch tenant, clarifying the disposition of cattle assigned to Perks.
Girl's letter describing school, church, and a party held at Mr. Spaffords.
Letter with offer to sell shorthorn cattle for breeding; details on cattle pedigree linage.
Letter mentioning upcoming legislation regarding the "punch law."
Letter advising that Mr. Gordon will not allow Thorpe to draw on the $100 he has on deposit with the firm.
Letter ordering Thorpe to contract with Davis for the purchase of beef, subject to approval by Mr. Power himself.
Family news and instructions on getting a note made for sale of horses to Alonzo Ostrander.
Letter inquiring over interest in Lewis leading a church service at Hamilton.
Postscript to one of the earlier letters regarding agreement with William Perks.
Letter regarding the Hay Ranch, and report on the Helena beef market.
This collection is organized into two series, the first dealing with the operation of Myrick's ranch at Square Butte, Montana. In addition to some personal correspondence series one also includes records dealing with Myrick family genealogy, and various Geraldine, Montana institutions such as the Methodist Church, Equity Cooperative Association, and Farmers Union Grain Terminal Association. Series two includes very detailed financial records pertaining to Myrick's creation and presidency of the Square Butte Elevator Company.
Series 1 covers the personal and some business interests of H.D. Myrick. Included are ledgers, cards, and inventory books that cover almost every aspect of the ranch's operation. Also found in this series are more limited collections of Myrick's interests including his involvement with a number of other organizations: financial records from the Methodist Church of Geraldine, stock and correspondence regarding the Farmers Union Grain Terminal Association, and ledgers from the Equity Cooperative Association. There is little personal correspondence in this collection, but included are letters to and from James C. Zanto, the man Myrick leased his ranch to when he moved to Bozeman. This series is arranged with ranch papers, personal finance, personal correspondence, and genealogy files preceding those dealing with the Farmer's Union Grain Terminal Association and the Equity Cooperative Association.
Series 2 of the Myrick Papers deals exclusively with the Square Butte Elevator Company, a business Myrick founded and served as president until its incorporation into the Cooperative Elevator of Square Butte. Included are ledgers, audit reports, articles of incorporation and other information on the company and its employees. When the Square Butte Elevator Company was absorbed into the Cooperative Elevator of Square Butte, Myrick maintained both stock and interest in the new company so there are some pieces dealing with the new Cooperative. The contents of this series are arranged primarily in chronological order across two boxes to show the progression of the company up until it was absorbed into the Co-op.
The MSU President's office annual reports recieved comprise a collection of prepared statements created by various academic and administrative subdivisions of the school from 1921 to 1968, the bulk of which were issued prior to the 1965 establishment of the school as a university. These subdivisions include academic departments, schools, divisions, and colleges, along with acadmic support units such as the registrar and student health center. The reports generally give an overview of the given year's activities by faculty and staff. Information includes the performance of teaching and teaching support work, grants and other financial data, and occasionally indvidual employees and their activities. Not all units are represented in the files, and the chronological coverage varies. The reports have been placed in alphabetical order by the name of the academic or administrative subgroup and then chronologically afterwards.
Instructions and checklist
Instructions and checklist
Instructions and checklist
The Christie letters, except for five, were written by David and Emma or sent to them by other family members. The majority of the letters are between David and Emma, and David and his older brother Alexander, who is often referred to as Sandy. The letters predominantly reflect the sharing of family information within the context of their daily lives. The collection chronologically organized with each folder representing a particular time period or specific event. Most of the letters between David and Emma reveal the dreams, goals, and struggles of moving to Montana. A long letter from David's oldest brother Thomas, tells of his experience as a missionary living in Turkey, where he spent most of his life. Beginning in 1898, Alexander corresponded to the Christie family through David of his travels to Alaska during the Klondike gold rush.
The materials in this collection represent the range of the MSU community's response to the pandemic, from the very personal to the administrative. The bulk of the collection consists of student responses to COVID-19 related assignments in courses across disciplines beginning in Spring 2020. Together these records constitute an archive of lived experiences during this time.
The Starr School Fancy Dancers multimedia presentation consists of fifty-seven 35mm transparencies with an accompanying audiotape reel. The narration, performed by Alfred Taft, is timed to indicate when to advance to the next slide. The images are of the Siksika Starr School Fancy Dancers, chosen to illustrate costumes and dancing techniques as they coordinate with the narration by Taft.
The Wilbur F. Sanders papers consist of letters and cards received by him in response to an invitation for the sliver wedding anniversary celebration of Harriet and Wilbur Sanders on October 27, 1883. Respondents include James Fergus, William A. Clark, Benjamin F. Potts, and Davis Willson. The letters and cards had been mounted on highly acidic black paper with corresponding typed transcriptions placed in proximity to the originals, but they have been removed from these mountings due to preservation concerns. As a result, the response letters and cards have been placed in odd numbered folders 1-13 and even numbered folders contain the transcriptions found in the preceding folder. The collection also includes a scrapbook of mounted newspaper clippings pertaining to the anniversary observance, Sanders' political activities, and obituaries of Sanders and members of his extended family. Five photographs of Wilbur F. Sanders, Louis P. Sanders and Sidney Edgerton complete this collection.
The Emma Stoker photographs are a collection of copy prints taken from the album loaned to MSU by Mary Leth in 1967. Many of the copy photographs are of poor quality, although it cannot be determined if the originals were in the same condition. The photographs have been individually numbered, with corresponding negatives, and gathered into topically labeled folders. Included are early views of Belgrade, Pony, and Norris, Montana. A few of the images have been identified and bear annotations.
The Joan Wulff Papers include correspondence, speeches, article and book manuscripts, galleys, brochures, artwork, and photographs. Topics include fly fishing, fly fishing techniques, and fly fishing equipment for women. Of interest are the Lee Wulff manuscripts for On a Trout Fly and For the Kids in Series two.
Materials in Series one contains photocopies of original correspondence collected by Ted Rogowski pertaining to the early history of the Federation of Fly Fishers. Correspondents include Ted Rogowski, Lee Wulff, Bob Wethern of the Oregon Flfishers Club, William A. Nelson of the McKenzie Flyfishers Club, Ed J. Strickland of the Federation of Flyfishers, and Gene Anderegg of the Federation of Flyfishers. The correspondence in this series are PDF scans on a CD-R disk provided by Wulff.
Series two consists of speeches given by Joan Wulff, article manuscripts, book manuscripts and galleys authored by Joan. Also included in Box 5 are manuscripts for Lee Wulffs books On A Trout Fly and For the Kids. Articles for Joan’s column in Rod and Reel date from November/December 1981 to May/June 1989 and Fly Rod and Reel from July/October 1989 to March 2002; illustrations for these articles include those by Gordon Allen for issues in November/December 1981-November/December 1988, Richard Harrington for issues in January/February 1989-July/October 1989, and Francis Davis for issues in November/December 1989-March 1993.
Series three contains two brochures pertaining to Lee and Joan Wulff. The first provides an overview of Lee Wulff’s life; the second advertises the Wulff School of Fly Fishing founded by Lee and Joan Wulff.
Series four contains photos and artwork. Individuals included in the images include Lee Wulff, Joan Wulff, Jimmy Salvato, Emmett Kelly, Monte Blue, and Ed Zern. The photographs in this series are PDF scans on a CD-R disk provided by Wulff. The photograph titles were taken from the image or verso of the image, they include the number assigned to the image on the disk. The artwork in this series was created drawn by artists Dom Lupo and Gary Allen for Joan Wulff’s casting columns. This series contains photographic material that was separated from the oversize box Folder 2 and relocated to Box 5, Folder 17; the separation is denoted by an asterisk (*) next to the folder from which the images were removed. These photographs are the basis from which artist Gary Allen drew his artwork for the casting columns.
JW1001
JW2001
JW3002
JW4004
JW6006
JW7007
JW8008.
JW9009.
JW1001.
JW11011.
JW12012.
JW13013.
JW14014.
JW15015.
For American Magazine. JW16016.
National Casting Tournament or Michigan? JW17017.
JW18018.
Atlantic Salmon. JW19019.
JW20020.
JW21021.
Anthony Grasso, Jimmy Harris, Bob Buckman, Gary Eickman, 3 Unknown, Alice?, Joan Salvato, Peggy Buckman, Ann Bahr. JW22022.
Maryland. JW23023.
JW24024.
JW25025.
Warren, Michigan. American Casting Association Championships. Photo by Tom McNally. JW26026.
Louisville, Kentucky for Fisherman Magazine. JW27027.
JW28028.
Allenberry, Pennsylvania. Federation of Fly Fishers. Eastern Conclave. Ray Pryzgoda (Prescott), Charles Ritz, Lee, ?. JW29029.
JW30030.
JW31031.
JW32032.
JW33033.
JW34034.
JW35035.
JW36036.
JW37037.
JW38038.
JW39039.
JW40040.
JW41041.
JW42042.
JW43043.
JW44044.
JW45045.
JW46046.
Steelhead-18 lbs, Skeena River, British Columbia. JW47047.
JW48048.
JW49049.
JW50050.
JW51051.
In the Beaverkill. Photo by Glen Lou. JW52052.
JW53053.
Historian's book documenting the activities of the Springhill Go-Getters 4-H club. Produced by Mary Brown and entered in the Gallatin County Fair, date unknown, in the 4-H Club Work category. Includes photographs of each 4-H member and the topic on which they presented, lists of the topics/areas of focus for each member, and clippings from the Bozeman Daily Chronicle on the members, activities of the club, along with the results of the 1987 4-H programs at the Gallatin County Fair. In addition, there is a scoring sheet and prize ribbons relating to the scrapbook project. The scrapbook documents the 1986-1987 program year and contains: Pledges, History [missing], Club Program, Leaders and Members, Meetings, Demonstrations, and Activities.
The Oral History Collection consists of various individual recordings from a variety of sources. Persons interviewed or speaking on the various tapes include: Holmes Stuart Batchelder, Frank Christopher Collins, Beatrice Freeman Davis, Lucy Stafford Peck, Harvey P. Griffin, Eugene Quaw, Malcolm Chilton Story, Elizabeth Spain Ault, Charles Diggs Greenfield, Thomas Tillman, Maria Leonard, Janet McAtee, Doris Townsend, Annie Davidson Boyse Childress, A.C. Newby, Edwin Iverson, and Gardner Waite. Montana Places mentioned in the various tapes include Gallatin County, Stillwater County, Lewis and Clark County, Madison County, Powder River County, Bozeman, Belgrade, Helena, Big Timber, Missouri Flats, Gallatin Field Airport, and Montana State University. Subjects include homesteading, newspaper reporting, musicians, aviation, the Alpha Lambda Delta sorority, retail business, the Glass-Lindsay Land Company, and general Montana history. The collection consists of the recordings and in a few cases accompanying documentation. Some original audiotape reels consist of more than one recording and can be found in other collections.
H. S. Batchelder was born in Bryant, Iowa on October 6, 1883 and came to Montana in 1908 where he worked at the Marcus Daly ranch near Hamilton until1911. He moved to Three Forks afterwards and established a dairy operation until his retirement in 1955. Batchelder died on December 20, 1975 in Bozeman. In a 1970 note to then Montana State University librarian Minnie Paugh, Merrill G. Burlingame stated that Ed Willson had also worked on the Daly ranch and reminisced with Batchelder on the tape. "Their recall was not good, we did not have the right questions, and the interview does not have much that is worthwhile, and they talked in a very low tone."
Frank C. Collins was born in Gallatin County, Montana on April 23, 1875. He was a grandson of the Mary Wells "Granny" Yates family, Montana pioneers who came to the territory in the 1860s. Collins grew up near Flathead Pass north of Bozeman and married Grace Cheney on October 22, 1903. The couple lived near Central Park and Belgrade, Montana where Collins worked as an auctioneer. The family moved to San Diego in 1925 where Collins worked in real estate sales. They moved back to Gallatin County in 1951 and Frank Collins died in Three Forks on June 23, 1954. In the interview Collins reminisces on his early life, the history of Belgrade, and the Granny Yates family.
Beatrice Freeman Davis was a 1900 graduate of Montana State College and a faculty member in the English department from 1920-1962. Lucy Stafford Peck was one of four first graduates from the college in 1896. In this unstructured discussion, Davis and Peck recall their memories of early day Montana State College.
Harvey P. Griffin was born in Omaha, Nebraska on March 19, 1889. He attended the University of Missouri and came to Bozeman after graduating in 1909. He worked for Montana State College as an assistant in animal husbandry and also worked his own Gallatin County livestock operations. Griffin also worked as the editor of the weekly Bozeman Courier newspaper and was famed as a turkey breeder. He spent many years in California prior to returning to Bozeman after 1955 and where he died on November 28, 1974. In this interview Griffin speaks about the history of Bozeman and his memories of life in the town during the early twentieth century. [Original collection number 848.]
Eugene Cole "Gene" Quaw was born in Belgrade, Montana on March 6, 1891. His family moved to Bozeman around 1896 and Gene attended local schools before graduating from Montana State College (Montana State University) in 1910. While growing up he worked as a piano player at the Bozeman Opera House under musical director Louis Leo Howard and early displayed a talent for music composition. Gene worked as a band leader and composer after his graduation from college in Bozeman and also studied at the University of Minnesota, the University of California at Los Angeles, the University of Arizona, and Louisiana State University where he worked as the recreation director for twenty years until his retirement in 1961. During the 1920s, he conducted a dance orchestra for several summers at Yellowstone National Park, and he also worked for the Paramount motion picture company as a composer for cartoon features. Gene's published musical scores include: Under Any Old Moon at All (1909), Twilight Time (1920), Old Man Jazz (1920), Nobody Else (1923), The Rose of Sigma Chi (1924), Yellowstone (1937) Song of the Engineers (1942), and Dream Girl of Sigma Chi (1948). Gene Quaw died in Bozeman, Montana on December 17, 1968. In this interview Quaw relates incidents from his career in music. [Original collection number 848.]
Malcolm C. Story was born in Bozeman, Montana on June 12, 1902, son of Thomas Byron Story and grandson of Nelson Story, a prominent Montana pioneer. Malcolm attended local schools before enrolling in the Culver Military Academy and the Eastman Business College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He married Rose Ashby on Sept. 18, 1924, in Madisonville, Ky. After their marriage, they moved to Los Angeles where they lived for several years. He moved back to Montana in 1933. Considered an authority in local history and his famous family, Story was often sought out for information on those topics during his final years. He died on September 16, 1994. Winifred Story Lovelace was Malcolm's sister, also born in Bozeman on April 11, 1911. She married Bozeman businessman Jack Campbell Lovelace in 1933. Winifred lived in Bozeman until her death on October 12, 1988. Winifred's mother-in-law was Montana Hathorn Lovelace, born on April 23, 1882 in Livingston, Montana. She died in Bozeman on February 25, 1971. In this interview Malcolm, Winifred, and Montana relate incidents of the Story family history and the history of Bozeman, Montana. This tape has yet to be digitally rendered as of July 10, 2018. [Original collection number 848.]
Elizabeth S. Ault was born August 24, 1879 in Lynchburg, Virginia. She came to Bozeman with her family in 1885 where she attended local schools. In June, 1900, she married Thurman Ault and the couple lived in Seattle and Canada until returning to Bozeman in 1932. Ault died on July 18, 1967. In the tape Ault apparently discusses the history of the Story family, but the recording quality is quite poor due to a separate track of classical music that often overwhelms the voices. This tape has yet to be digitally rendered as of July 10, 2018. [Original collection number 848.]
Charles Diggs Greenfield, Jr., was born in Helena, Montana, in 1885. He graduated from Helena High School in 1903. Between 1907 and 1919 Greenfield worked as a newspaper reporter for The Helena Independent and the Montana Record Herald. In 1919 he accepted a position as Montana Director of Publicity and farmed in the Helena valley. In 1923 he joined the office of Montana Life Insurance Company (later Western Life), where he worked in various capacities until his retirement in 1960. In succeeding years Greenfield wrote numerous historical articles for such publications as True West and Frontier Times. He was elected to the Lewis and Clark County Commission (1954-1960) and was a long-time member of the Helena Kiwanis Club. He also received a U.S. Weather Bureau award for keeping precipitation records over a forty-year period. Greenfield married Anna Elizabeth Nelson, daughter of Henry H. Nelson of Vandalia, Montana, in 1913. They had three children: Henry, Ann, and William. Charles Diggs Greenfield, Jr., died in Helena on September 26, 1975. In this interview Greenfield describes his father's career as well as his own. Original tape reel has been placed in Collection 298. Digital copy available. [Original collection number 876 .]
William, James, John and Alex Glass formed a real estate operation 1904. In 1908 they reorganized with Frank Lindsay to form the Glass-Lindsay Land Company and contracted with the state Carey Land Act Board to build several reservoirs and irrigation canals as part of the Big Timber project. In addition to two reservoirs, the company built thirty-five miles of canals to transport water to irrigate sugar beets and fruit. The project was completed about 1915. Among the settlers who came to the area to establish farms were members of the Church of the Brethren. This tape created by librarian Minnie Paugh features twenty-five residents of the Big Timber area who met to share their memories of the Glass-Lindsay development. The original audiotape reel was combined with several transactions of the Montana Institute of the Arts meetings and placed in Collection 298 as tape numbers 52-56. Two blueprint drawings of the project's reservoirs, a complete list of the speakers heard on the tape, and several copy photographs accompany this recorded meeting. [Original collection number 920.]
Thomas Nelson Tillman was born on October 30, 1884 in Denmark. He came to the United States in 1905 and settled near Bozeman in Gallatin County, Montana. On December 22, 1913 he married Maude Ruth Wright in Livingston, but the couple made their home in Bozeman where Thomas worked as a butcher and eventually established the North Side Meat Market. Tillman died on December 1, 1982. In his interview with Francis Niven, Tillman recounts incidents of his own career in Bozeman and discusses other butcher shops in the town. [Original collection number 1001.]
Maria Leonard was born on February 9, 1880 in Indianapolis, Indiana. She attended Butler University as a voice major and then earned a Master's degree in mathematics from Colorado College. Her intention was to be a mathematics teacher. Educational administration was then a relatively new field and, in 1910, she became Dean of Women at Idaho State Normal College in Albion. Two years later, she became Dean of Women at Coe College in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a position she held until 1923 when she became Dean of Women at the University of Illinois. She was on the UIUC campus for 22 years, from 1923-1945. Leonard founded Alpha Lambda Delta in 1924; it was originally an honorary to recognize academic excellence among freshmen women. Maria Leonard died in Livermore, California on October 31, 1976. In this scripted conversation, Bozeman chapter charter member Jane M. Ulrich speaks with Leonard regarding the history of the organization she founded. [Original collection number 1156.]
Interviews with Paul Schoenek, Ferd Schoenek, Vern Neely, and Hiny Shuster regarding a former town site on the upper Madison River, Montana. No CD Rom version or transcript available. [Original collection number 1134.]
Annie Davidson was born in Yorkshire, England on February 11, 1882. She came to the United States sometime after the turn of the century and settled in Montana. She married Henry Osborne Boyse on July 1, 1904 and the couple had three daughters. The Boyse family homesteaded in Powder River County and in her interview she relates many anecdotes of homestead life. Henry Boyes died in 1947 and Annie married John Childress the following year. The original recording is on reel 16 of Collection 298, but a CD Rom copy is available for research in this collection. [Original collection number 867.]
The Gallatin Field airport was first established around 1928 and has grown into one of the busiest transportation hubs in Montana. Newly, Iverson, and Waite were all involved with the airport's growth of the years and presented different perspectives on their experiences. The original recording is on a part of Collection 298, reel 65, but a CD Rom copy is available for research in this collection. [Original collection number 2360.]
The Chandler C. Cohagen papers consist of notes, photographs, printed materials, project specifications and architectural drawings which document his long career as an architect in Montana. Although the majority of the architectural projects in this collection were created by Cohagen himself, works by other architects are also represented. The projects include public and private buildings in Montana, Wyoming, and a few other states. Although there is some repetition of project titles, each drawing set represents a separate contracted project, a result of Cohagen being retained for remodeling previously designed buildings. The collection has been arranged in three series. Series 1 contains architectural drawings from projects Cohagen and his partners designed during his career dating from 1907-1971. Series 2 is a collection project specifications correlating to drawings in Series 1. Series 3 contains miscellaneous material collected by Cohagen such as notes, photographs of buildings, and printed articles.
353 architectural drawing sets representing projects designed from 1907 to 1971. The majority of the drawings were done by Cohagen, although a few represent work done by his partners and other architectural firms. The drawings directly attributed to Cohagen were designed under his own name, and under the corporate names of McIver and Cohagen, Cohagen and Williams, and McIver, Cohagen and Williams. The majority of the drawings pertain to projects in Montana and Wyoming, but a few other locations are represented. When first accessioned, the drawings were given sequential numbers starting from 1, but an agreement with the Western Heritage Center in Billings, Montana necessitated the transfer of specific drawing sets to that institution. As a result, the sequential numbering of these drawings represents gaps throughout the listing. Only the assigned drawing set number and the title assigned by Cohagen to the project are represented in this listing, and to assist researchers in locating specific drawing sets based on location or project genre a special online catalog is available. Click here for access to the Architectural Drawing Catalog. The drawings are stored flat in oversize metal cabinets, so there is no individual container listing for the following inventory of Series 1.
(4 folders)
Project specification books for selected projects represented in Series 1. The booklets include stipulations for material, fixtures, processes, and other matters to be considered when contracting for construction of the buildings. Few of the drawing sets from Series 1 have corresponding specification booklets, but most within this series have been given the same titles and drawing set numbers. As a result, for boxes 1 through 10, the listings do not show the standard sequential folder numbers, instead the project numbers are used to indicate the folder placement. An important exception can be found in box 11, which contains specification booklets that have no corresponding drawing sets. These booklets have been placed in sequentially numbered folders.
(3 folders)
(3 folders)
This series consists of a small selection of inter-office memos and jottings that were removed from the context of any particular project before the material was donated, some printed material pertaining to buildings and their design, and photographs, including an album of Y.M.C.A. facilities in various states collected by Cohagen, likely in preparation for designing such facilities himself.
The minute books document the group's meetings from 1892 through 1908 and include information on the papers presented at the meetings, committee reports on social issue actions, and treasury reports. An additional folder of material laid in the minute books accompanies the records.
The SPURS National Honor Society Records are a compilation of items collected from multiple donors over multiple years. The items cover activities for the local (original) chapter at Montana State University, the national organization, and from chapters across the country. They cover the span of time between 1926 and 2006, which is very close to the entire lifespan of the organization (1922-2006). The collection is an example of club activities, promotional materials for MSU and the SPURS club, Honor Society history, and the history of the MSU Alumni Association since the SPURS joined with the Alumni Association after SPURS was dissolved.
The scrapbooks in this series were created or collected by the Montana Spurs. The scrapbooks contain clippings, photographs, notes, ephemera, etc. retained by the group to commemorate their history.
Materials in this series consist of items owned/used by members throughout their membership within the organization. They consist of Spurs branded clothing items, membership pins, embroidered patches, decorative embroidered pillows, boot spurs, member award plaques and certificates, a rubber stamp, presidential gavel, a brass tankard, and documentation items including: song books, newspaper clippings, convention guest books, chapter charters (Long Beach State College, and University of Nevada at Las Vegas), and personal remembrances. The song books contain lyrics for chapter specific songs, SPURS National songs, and "fun songs" (public domain songs, and chorus songs) to be used at events and meetings. Some song books include music notation in addition to lyrics. Award plaques include award winner names, and some items have the owner name engraved/stitched into them.
Materials in this series pertain to the local Montana State University chapter of the Spurs. Records include minutes, reports, membership lists, and correspondence.
Records in this series relate to the national chapters of the Spurs. Items include minutes, reports, membership lists, and correspondence.
Items in this series document the visual and audio history of the Spurs. Objects include audiocassettes, audio reels, photographs, and 35 mm transparencies. Topics include conventions, meetings, Sur members, and Fang members.
Positive photocopy of a speech Story dubbed “Memories of the Good Old Days” and delivered to the Flying Farmers organization on October 4, 1963. In the speech, Story described the history of aviation in the Gallatin Valley and elsewhere in Montana, speaking specifically about various personalities and particular types of aircraft. Aviators mentioned include Bert Mooney, John Fox, Red Morrison and Bill Fahrner.
The Don Binkowski papers consist of research materials dealing with Philetus W. Norris, Binkowski's literary work, and personal correspondence. Most of the papers pertain to research conducted by Binkowski in preparation for his 1995 publication, Col P. W. Norris: Yellowstone's Greatest Superintendent. The book began as a local history project about Binkowski's childhood home, but during the course of his research, Binkowski discovered Norris' Michigan homestead was just blocks away from this home and largely forgotten by the local residents. The research notes collected by Binkowski contain mostly letters and periodical articles that he transcribed from source materials. Also included in these papers are versions of the Norris biography and a copy of Binkowski's earlier article, "From Prairie Mound to Yellowstone National Park." Of particular importance among the correspondents are letters from Wilna Krisher, and Aubrey Haines. The collection has been arranged in topically labeled folders.
The Ernest McCollum diaries consist of volumes completed for each year from 1908 through 1952. The volumes for 1910 and 1925 are missing. The entries are quite brief, sometimes no more than a partial sentence, describing McCollum's experiences as a rancher and homesteader, first in Musselshell County, and later in Rosebud County. Weather conditions are noted in most entries, and the daily record is supplemented by cattle tallies and other financial notes. A picture album and some pen and ink sketches created by McCollum are included on the microfilm.
The Gene Quaw collection consists of a autographed tribute album, some printed items, and 106 black and white photographs taken of Quaw, his band members, and friends in Yellowstone National Park, most of which are circa 1921-1922. The photographs are almost all informal snapshots of Yellowstone scenes and the outdoor performance stage at the Canyon Hotel where Quaw and his band performed with the "Canyon Hotel Follies" during the summer of 1922. Some photographs appear to have been taken much later, showing Quaw holding a copy of his score for Yellowstone which was not published until 1937. The autograph album was presented to Quaw in late 1951 after he had performed a special concert in Bozeman, Montana for many long-time residents, many of whom recalled his work in Yellowstone. Those who attended the concert put together the album which contains many tributes to Quaw as a musician and friend. Among the signers are Bozeman musician Louis Leo Howard and architect Fred F. Willson. The printed materials in the collection consist of a copy of Yellowstone, along with a mimeograph lyric sheet for the song dated March 4,1947, a business card for Quaw as pianist for the "Lone Star Trio" at Old Faithful Inn, and a program for a formal recital at Mammoth Hot Springs, September 11, 1921. The original hand carved wooden cover for the autographed tribute album has been retained with the collection.
The Millard Peterson Scrapbook contains memorabilia, photographs, pamphlets and other documents collected by Peterson while a student at Montana State College from 1919 to 1923. Peterson was an enthusiastic member of the Beta Epsilon fraternity and many of the documents included in the scrapbook pertain to the fraternity's activities. Photographs include those of Peterson and his friends, along with views of the Beta Epsilon fraternity house at 501 South Grand Avenue. Dance cards and playbills for events and performances held on campus and in the Bozeman community are also included. The scrapbook contains several issues of the Beta Epsilon fraternity quarterly newsletter, 1921-1922 and documentation for the fraternity's unsuccessful attempt to affiliate with the national Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.
The materials in this collection consist of photocopies of original and transcribed manuscript holdings maintained by the Yellowstone National Park Research Library and Archives. The materials were gathered into this artificial collection over a period of months by the staff at Montana State University Library and given item level description on conventional 3×5 library catalog cards. They were arranged in alphabetical order by what was then assumed to be the main entry of each manuscript group and each group subsequently numbered as "items" 1 through 84. The present inventory was created from the information recorded on the catalog cards, but it must be understood by researchers that the subsequent cataloging and arrangement of original manuscript collections at Yellowstone National Park may or may not have retained what herein is assumed to be the "main entry" of either creator or subject. Original item numbers have been retained with each group's folder descriptions to assist anyone following an earlier citation to these materials.
Authors and persons include: Josh Adams; Horace M. Albright ; Peter Allen; George Ash; William Emory Atchison; William Blackmore; Theodore C. Blegen; Pierre Bottineau; William Buzzell; N.O. Chase; H.W. Childs; Hiram M. Chittenden; Malcolm Clark; Tom Clark; C.C. Clawson; B.G. Colonna; Charles W. Cook; John Schuyler Crosby; Miss M.A. Cruikshank; Mary (Reeves) Dexter; Gustavus Cheyney Doane; Truman C. Everts; James Liberty Fisk; David S. Folsom; Mr. and Mrs. Tom Foster; Warren Caleb Gillette; James Gourly; Arnold Hague; Aubrey L. Haines; James M. Hamilton; Sidford F. Hamp; A.E. Hartley; Richard Burton Hassell; Samuel T. Hauser; Ferdinand V. Hayden; F. Jay Haynes; J.E. Haynes; Harry Hazeltine; David Porter Heap; Cornelius Hedges; A.B. (Bart) Henderson; G.L. Henderson; Jennie Henderson; Edwin Beard Hendrie; Ed Hibbard; Elwood (Uncle Billy) Hofer; W.H. Holmes; Emerson Hough; Charles C. Howell; William H. Jackson; Dave Johnson; Mrs. Edward H. Johnson; W.A. Jones; Charles Kirchner; Henry E. Klamer; S.M. Knox; Wilma Krisher; Nathaniel Pitt Langford; Mrs. S.C. Lawrence; George M. Leatherman; Paul LeHardy; Richard (Beaver Dick) Leigh; Lieutenant Elmer Lindsley; John T. McCutcheon; John Brainard MacHarg; Charles (Buckskin Charlie) Marble; George D. Marler; G.W. Marshall; William R. Marshall; Stephen T. Mather; Arthur Martin Mattoon; Adam Miller; John Moore; Edward H. Moorman; Thomas Moran; James G. Morrison; Oscar O. Mueller; A.B. Nettleton; T.E. Newcomb; P.W. Norris; A.W. Orton; Paul F. Osborne; Mabel Cross Osmond; Caroline L. Paull; A.C. Peale; William Peterson ; Charles H. Ransdell; J.W. Redington; George Reeb (alias Morphine Charley); R.J. Reeves; J.H. Renshaw; Dick Rock; Theodore Roosevelt; Bill Scales; Mrs. H.L. Shepard; Gus Smitzer (alias Little Gus); Andy Stewart; Charles Sumner; Reverend E.O. Taylor; James W. Taylor; George Thomas; George Thorpe (English George); O.A. Tomlinson; Granville Turner; R.O. Vandercook; Henry Dana Washburn; Serena J. Washburn; Andrew J. Weikert; Charles White; George Whittaker; E.M. Wilson; Mode Wineman; Arthur Woodward; William Wallace Wylie; General S.B.M. Young.
Organizations mentioned include: Cottage Hotel Association; Yellowstone Library and Museum Association; Yellowstone National Park Stage Line; Yellowstone Park Association; Yellowstone Park Hotel Association; Yellowstone Park Improvement Company.
Subjects include: Barlow-Heap Expedition of 1870; Battle of Bear Paw Mountain; Bicycling; Boundary Surveys; Buffalo; Cook, Folsom, Peterson Expedition, 1869; Diaries; Exploration; Flora; Freighters; Geology; Geysers; Guides; Hayden Survey, 1872; Hayden Survey, 1878; Haynes Winder Expedition, 1887; Hotels; Mail Routes; Maps; Mining; Mountaineering; National Parks - Creation: Nez Perce Raid, 1877; Northern Pacific Railroad; Pack Trains; Photography; Poaching; Post Offices; Prospecting; Publicity; Railroads; Roads; Robberies; Scouts; Skiing; Soldiers; Stage Coach Drivers; Stage Coaches; Transportation; Trappers and Wolfers; Vigilantes and Road Agents; Washburn, Langford, Doane Expedition, 1870; Western Range Cattle Industry Study; Wildlife; Wylie Way Camps.
Place names mentioned include: Alum Creek; Bear Paw Mountain; Bozeman, Montana; Camp Cooke; Cook City; Dakota Territory; Firehole River; Fort Ellis, Montana; Fort Hall, Idaho; Fort Peck Reservoir; Fort Yuma; Jackson Hole, Wyoming; Madison Valley; Mammoth Hot Springs; Marshall Hotel; Missouri River; Missouri River Breaks; Marias River; Mexico; Montana Territory; Pembina, North Dakota; Red River of the North; Snake River; Teton National Park; Virginia City, Montana; Wind River; Wyoming Territory; Yellowstone Lake; Yellowstone National Park; Yellowstone River.
Horace M. Albright, letters - W.W. Wylie (manuscript about Yellowstone National Park History which both men were writing). October 25, October 28, November 4, November 9, 1926. A log corral was built on Alum Creek in an attempt to keep buffalo in the Park, 1880s. Item 1.
Peter Allen Reminiscence, 1913. (Account of the Battle of Bear Paw Mountain, 1877) Letters - DeVault to the National Park Service, 1964; Everhart to DeVault, 1964. Item 2.
Anonymous, Wonderland, 1892-1894 (it covers the years 1876 through the 1880s). Possibly written by G.L. Henderson - Miss Souther calls him Mr. Henderson on page 28; Jennie Henderson his daughter is identified and the post mistress of Mammoth Hot Springs on page 38. Item 3.
George Ash Collection, 1882-1911. Correspondence pertaining to Yellowstone Park Association; Cottage Hotel Association; G.L. Henderson; H.E. Klamer of the Post Office; and personal letters. 2 maps: 1885 drawing with the topography of J.H. Renshaw and the triangulation of N.E. Chase, edition of 1886. 1873 drawing of Captain W.A. Jones of the Corps Of Engineers, edition of 1874. Item 4.
William Emory Atchison, An epic of the middle west, excerpts from the personal diary of the William Emory Atchison in 1864, with an introduction and map by Charles H. Ransdell (son of the diarist), 1933. Original typed version of mimeographed version published privately by J.E. Haynes and Mr. Ransdell, February 1, 1933. (20 copies were made). Item 5.
Bassett Brothers, Letter to S.M. Knox about prices of the Yellowstone National Park tour, 1885. Item 6.
William Blackmore. A typed copy of a diary of his trip through Yellowstone Park in 1872 (typed from a photocopy of a typed copy). Item 7.
Herbert Breyer, memo about Blackmore diary. Two notes about death of wife who in buried in the Bozeman Cemetery. Note about Blackmore and the 1872 Hayden party. Item 7 (continued).
Edward Burnett, "The concord coach," 1929. Item 8.
Hiram M. Chittenden, "The Yellowstone, " found in the reports in the Engineer's Office, 1932. 7 pp; Letter to Serena J. Washburn, 1904; "The National Park Range of Mountains - what is its rightful name?" Chittenden is the probable author. Item 9.
C.C. Clawson, "The region of the wonderful Lake Yellowstone," (Typed transcription from The New North-West, Deer Lodge, MT, January 13, 1872; January 27, 1872; February 10, 1872; February 24, 1872; May 18, 1872. 21 pages. Item 10.
B.G. Colonna, letter to Gen. Drum re North Boundary of Wyoming survey, 1882. 3 pp. Item 11.
John Schuyler Crosby, Governor of Montana Territory, letter to the Governor of Dakota Territory concerning the preservation of wildlife from skin hunters and irresponsible sportsmen, 1883. Item 12.
M.A. Cruikshank. Handwritten letter to Senator Charles Sumner, 1871. Envelope; Department of Interior endorsement; note of Charles White. The letter is a request to have a copy of Hayden's Survey when it would be published as well as copies of his stereographic views. Notes on the Yellowstone park, by M.A.C. August 1883. 57 p (typed manuscript). Gift from Timothy Manns, Yellowstone National Park Historian, winter 1980. Item 13.
Mary (Reeves) Dexter Papers. Letters of Yellowstone (to Papa and Mama), 1889 Biographical note. Item 14.
Gustavus C. Cheyney Doane. Expedition of Lieutenant G.C. Doane from Fort Ellis, Montana to Fort Hall, Idaho, October 11, 1876 to January 4, 1877. Item 15.
Julia H. Emery. Article from notebook, undated. 3 pp. Letter about copy of article, 1948. Item 16.
David E. Folsom. Xerox of a copy of the diary of the Folsom-Cook Expedition in 1869 to the Yellowstone National Park. 25 pp. (David S. Folsom of Corcoran, CA the grandson of David E. Folsom had the original in 1940). Item 17.
Mrs. Tom Foster. From the Foster Ranch to Wonderland and return, August 1-7, 1882. (Xerox of a typed manuscript). Item 18.
Francis M. Gibson. Xerox copy of a handwritten diary (bound in red leather), 1882. Item 19.
Warren Caleb Gillette. Diary of an expedition in the Yellowstone Park region August 17 to September 27, 1870. Includes Washburn, Hauser, Everts, Hedges, Langford, Turnbill, Stickney, Doane, Smith. 18 pages. Original and reproduction rights at the Montana State Historical Library.* Item 20.
James Gourly. Expedition into the Yellowstone Country, 1870. Party included Adam Miller, Bart Henderson and Ed Hibbard in the Cook Region. Item 21.
Arnold Hague. Letter to Lieutenant Elmer Lindsley, 1898. 3pp. Item 22.
Aubrey L. Haines. A pilot and historical notes of the upper Missouri River, 1961. Notes and abstract from the Log of the Missouri Breaks Expedition, September 2-8, 1961, by Aubrey L. Haines. Letters from the Yellowstone Library and Museum Association asking that the Breaks be set aside as a National Monument, 1961. Information on Camp Cook, first military post in Montana Territory, with sketch and maps, by A.L. Haines, 1961. A pilot for the navigation of the Missouri River between Marias River and Fort Peck Reservoir. Historical notes on the Missouri River from the mouth of the Marias to Fort Peck Reservoir, by A.L. Haines. Bibliography. Item 23.
James M. Hamilton. History of Fort Ellis, 1926. 22 p. Item 24.
Sidford F. Hamp. Collection of letters - Hayden Expedition, 1872. Xerox of a bound photostat. 66 pp. (The writer was a nephew of Lord Blackmore.) For publication privileges consult the Colorado Historical Society.* Item 25.
A.E. Hartley. Recollections of Yellowstone in 1904. Written in 1954. 1 p. Item 26.
Richard Burton Hassell. A trip into Yellowstone 49 years ago, 1879. Written in 1928. 14 p. Departed from Butte by Virginia City. Item 27.
Samuel T. Hauser Papers. Excerpts from the diary of Samuel T. Hauser, 1870. Permission for publication must be obtained from the Yale University Library.* Item 28.
F. Jay Haynes. Letters concerning appointment as photographer of Yellowstone National Park. Xerox of photostats, 1881. Original in national archives. Item 29.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hazeltine. Mother's journal of a trip through Yellowstone and Teton National Parks, June 26 to October 19, 1901. Traveled from Bozeman, Montana to Baker, Oregon Fine details of camp life such as double teaming over Teton pass. Xerox of a handwritten notebook. Item 30.
David Porter Heap. Diary of David Porter Heap. A trip to Pembina on the Red River of the North, May and June 1870. Xerox of a handwritten manuscript. Heap was a member of the Barlow-Heap Expedition of 1870 whose records were destroyed by the great Chicago Fire of 1870. This manuscript has great importance in the story of the building of the railroad. Item 31.
Cornelius Hedges. Yellowstone expedition, 1870. Excerpts from the diary of Cornelius hedges made by Aubrey L. Haines. Original in the Montana State Historical Library. Item 32.
A.B. Henderson. (Bart Henderson was Lieutenant of the company) Journal of the Yellowstone expedition under Captain Jeff Standifer, 1866. Diaries of A.B. Henderson's prospecting journeys in the Snake, Wind River, and Yellowstone Country, 1866-1872. The 1866 journal tells of a trip to Fort Yuma to join an invasion of Mexico. The 1867 journal is about Yellowstone and Teton National Park areas. It includes Bozeman, p. 47. Item 33.
G.L. Henderson. Haynes' Winter Expedition, 1887. (Extracted from a Helena newspaper by G.L. Henderson.) Item 34.
Edwin Beard Hendrie. My trip through the Yellowstone in 1870. Marginal notes point out errors, not to be credited. Item 35.
W.H. Holmes. Extracts from the diary of W.H. Holmes which is in the Yellowstone National Park Museum. (Hayden Survey 1872, Yellowstone Expedition, and exploration of 1878). Item 36.
Charles C. Howell. My first trip to Yellowstone Park in 1883. Biographical note, journal, Haynes photo album, introduction and, railroad ticket, Northern Pacific Railroad express receipt, and Howells's signature. Item 37.
William H. Jackson (Photographer). Typed portion of Diary, July 22-October 19, 1878. 3 p. Item 38.
Mrs. Edward H. Johnson. Diary of trip through Yellowstone Park, 1905, started from Mason City, Iowa. Item 39.
W.A. Jones (Major). Letters about road in Yellowstone National Park, 1892. See also LeHardy. Item 40.
Charles Kirchner. Trip through Yellowstone Park in 1907; a reminiscence. Item 41.
Wilma Krisher. Early history of pioneer Ohio, 1840-1882. Reference to P.W. Norris - park superintendent. Item 42.
Nathaniel Pitt Langford. Short Manuscripts: Hayden Party under Stevenson, 1872 (robberies, geology pack trains, trappers, Bannack Indians); A Frontier Tragedy (death of Malcolm Clark); Helena, 1865 (stage coaches and drivers, especially Tom Clark); Shade Colyer, 1868 (stage coaches, tragedy of Shade Colyer); Stage drivers (typed copy of essay above); Blackfoot, 1866 (hold-ups). Item 43.
Nathaniel Pitt Langford (continued). Letter to Colonel W.S. Brackett, 1896 (description of buffalo on the plains in 1866 with a wagon train guided by Pierre Bottineau); Letter from Langford Smith to Ansel Hall, 1929 (gives Langford materials to the Yellowstone National Park Museum); Letter (unsigned) 1884 headed to Will (biographical account of miles traveled in Montana); Letter to Ignatius Donelly, 1863-1864 (post road to Bannack, analysis of growth, attitude of Crow Indians, mining). Item 43 (continued).
Nathaniel Pitt Langford (continued). Account of a journey down the Missouri River, 1866. Photo of Langford, 1866. Item 43 (continued).
Nathaniel Pitt Langford (continued). Manuscript, 1871 (typed from the original notebook in 1935). Item 43 (continued).
Nathaniel Pitt Langford (continued). Photocopy of original manuscript, handwritten in a ledger on only one side of each page with occasional corrections or notes on the blank page. The ledger was the text for Langford's speech about the "Yellowstone" both the present park and the river. Langford sought settlers for the Northern Pacific Railroad lands as well as tourists and financial support for the road; Notes of a miscellaneous nature; Washburn map, 1870. Item 43 (continued).
Nathaniel Pitt Langford (continued). Xerox of photocopies: Letter to Dr. Hayden, April 4, 1873 2 pp. (About a man in his office); Letter to Dr. Hayden, March 24, 1873 1 p. (engaging an astronomer for western boundary of Wyoming surveying); Letter to William J. Doolittle, August 9, 1903. 7 pp. (it describes the herds of buffalo when he crossed the plains in 1862 with Pierre Bottineau as a guide); Cover letter to Condon from Haselton, 1956, telling about the reason the above letter was deposited in the Park. Item 43 (continued).
Mrs. O.C. Lawrence. Two trips through Yellowstone, 1909 and 1938. Item 44.
Paul LeHardy. Expedition into the Yellowstone Plateau under Capt. W.A. Jones, 1873. Letter from Paul LeHardy, Jr. - 1961. Item 45.
Richard (Beaver Dick) Leigh. Six letters to Lieutenant Lindsley; Letter to N.P. Langford; Picture added in the fall of 1968 from the display at the Jackson Hole Museum (it shows Dick and his Indian family). Item 46.
Lieutenant Elmer Lindsley. Letters concerning Solfatara Plateau stage holdup, 1898. See also: United States versus Gus Smitzer and George Reeb, Richard Leigh. Item 47.
John T. McCutcheon. Experience with Dave Johnson in Yellowstone National Park, 1894. 4 letters - Hays Correspondence, 1951. Item 48.
John Brainard MacHarg. Diary, 1908 (arrived in Wyoming p. 16; entered Park via Cody). Item 49.
Charles (Buckskin Charlie) Marble. 50 years in and around Yellowstone National Park, 1932. Item 50.
Charles (Buckskin Charlie) Marble (continued). Miscellaneous notes and additional notes. Item 50 (continued).
George D. Marler. Studies of geysers and hot springs along the Firehole River, Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, 1964. Item 51.
G.W. Marshall. Autobiographical sketch of Yellowstone National Park resident, 1860-1881. Photostats - 2 memos National Park Service, 1938. Item 52.
Stephen Tyng Mather. Director of National Park Service, correspondence of 1915-1923: group 1-4; includes: promotion of wise legislation for National Parks; protecting bears; preventing the use of Parks by private power companies; prevention of grazing of domestic animals in Parks; preservation of the Yellowstone elk herd; Emerson Hough's attack on Horace M. Albright over a fish dinner for special guests; Organizing National Parks: Roosevelt Sequoia Park, Pikes Peak National Park, Yosemite National Park, (John Muir Trail), Brice Canyon, Mescalero National Park, National Dunes Par, Mount Evans National Park, Hawaii National Park, Glacier National Park, enlarging Yellowstone. Item 53.
Stephen Tyng Mather (continued). Correspondence, group 5-12: promotion of wise legislation for National Parks, etc. (See topics listed in 3 above.) Item 53 (continued).
Stephen Tyng Mather (continued). Correspondence, group 13-15: promotion of wise legislation for National Parks, etc. (See topics listed in 3 above.) Item 53 (continued).
Stephen Tyng Mather (continued). Correspondence, group 16-19: promotion of wise legislation for National Parks, etc. (See topics listed in 3 above.) Item 53 (continued).
Stephen Tyng Mather (continued). Correspondence, group 20-21: promotion of wise legislation for National Parks, etc. (See topics listed in 3 above.) Item 53 (continued).
Stephen Tyng Mather (continued). Correspondence, group 22-23: promotion of wise legislation for National Parks, etc. (See topics listed in 3 above.) Item 53 (continued).
Stephen Tyng Mather (continued). Correspondence, group 24-25: promotion of wise legislation for National Parks, etc. (See topics listed in 3 above.) Item 53 (continued).
Arthur Martin Mattoon. Handwritten diary of Yellowstone National Park, 1889. 100 pp. 2 letters from Margaret Mattoon Douglas (granddaughter) to J.M. Good, 1964-65. Letter of gift. Mimeographed biography. Item 54.
Edward H. Moorman. Yellowstone Park camps history, 1899-1948: memoir of years working for Wylie Permanent Camping Company and others (24 p. transcript - 2 copies). Item 55.
Oscar O. Mueller. Letter about Camp Cooke, 1961. Letter about C.W. Cook and D.E. Folsom. Item 55 (continued).
Joseph E. Mushback. Diary of the Hayden Survey, original pocket diary, 1878 (also typed manuscript). Obituary. Biographical sketch by his son, George E. Mushback, 1957. Item 56.
A.B. Nettleton (Northern Pacific Railroad). 2 letters to F.V. Hayden - photostat and copy. One concerning Thomas Moran and the other the setting aside of Yellowstone country as a National Park. Item 57.
T.E. Newcomb and William Buzzell. Journal - Civilian Scouts for Army (letters sent to Captain G.S. Anderson, Oct. 12, 1895 to Nov. 16, 1895, Superintendent of Yellowstone National Park). Item 58.
Paul F. Osborne. A brief history of Yellowstone Park (not scholarly), 1932. Item 59.
Mabel Cross Osmond. Memories of a trip through Yellowstone National Park in 1874 (in manuscript as well as typed). Probably the first white child to visit the Park. Item 60.
Caroline L. Paull. Copy of diary June 28-August 4, 1897. Notes on Yellowstone National Park, 1897. Item 61.
A.C. Peale (M.D.). Diary, May 21 -October 6, 1871 - 2 typescripts. Item 62.
A.C. Peale (M.D.) (continued). Photocopy of original diary, May 21 - October 6, 1871. Item 62 (continued).
A.C. Peale (M.D.) (continued). July 7 - July 16, 1872 diary - original and 1 typescript. Item 62 (continued).
A.C. Peale (M.D.) Papers (continued). Photocopy of original diary, July 21-October 24, 1872. Item 62 (continued).
William Peterson. Reminiscences of his life as a Danish sailor and in the American mining camps. It includes his memories of the Cook-Folson Expedition of 1869. Item 63.
Pat Quayle. Vagabond in the Yellowstone: September 4-12, 1915. (The entries were edited by the author in 1955 and 1956 when he was 56. The author was Curator of Fossils at U.C.L.A. from 1937-1945; with ARAMCO from 1945-1946; he accompanied National Geographic Society expeditions to the South Pacific, etc.) Item 64
Pat Quayle (continued). Vagabond in the Yellowstone: September 12-22, 1915. Item 64 (continued).
Pat Quayle (continued). Vagabond in the Yellowstone: September 23-October 3, 1915. Item 64 (continued).
Pat Quayle (continued). Vagabond in the Yellowstone: October 4-14, 1915. Photocopies from photo albums for both Vagabond diaries. Item 64 (continued).
Pat Quayle (continued). Vagabond in the Yellowstone on skis: February 25-April 16, 1916. Item 64 (continued).
Pat Quayle (continued). Vagabond in the Yellowstone on skis: April 17 - May 10, 1916. Item 64 (continued).
R.J. Reeves. Field notes of the survey of the Northern Boundary of Wyoming Territory - 1879. Item 65.
Theodore Roosevelt. 1907-1908: 2 letters to General S.B.M. Young; 1891: 6 letters to Elwood (Uncle Billy) Hofer; 5 pictures. Item 66.
Bill Scales. Reminiscence about his work in the park, 1896-1903. Letter to the Chief Ranger of the Yellowstone, 1963. Item 67.
Mrs. H.L. Shepard. Diary, 1892. Item 68.
Andy Stewart. Reminiscence of working for the Wylie Way Camps in 1909 at the age of 16. Yellowstone Park (original title "Win, Place, Show"). Letter of explanation from Howard H. Hays, 1958. Item 69.
Reverend E.O. Taylor. Handwritten diary, 1885. Letter of introduction to D.W. Wear. Letter from Chas. S. Fee, Northern Pacific Railroad Item 70.
George Thomas. Letter of explanation by Edmund B. Rogers, 1938. My recollections of the Yellowstone Park, 1883. Correspondence with Jack Haynes, 1937-1938. Item 71.
Captain Thompson. Diary of a trip from Fort Ellis, Montana Territory to the Yellowstone Park, 1882 (handwritten). Item 72.
O.A. Tomlinson. Correspondence about T.E. "Uncle Billy" Hofer, 1931-1933. Includes letters from and to Horace Albright, George Bird Grinnell, W.S. Hornaday, and Mr. and Mrs. O.E. Peterson, Mrs. G.D. (Lileota) De Staffaney. Letters deal with the man's old age and death. Item 73.
Granville Turner. Letter by Zella Turner Lindh about Granville Turner's (her father) part in the Hayden survey, 1964. Item 74.
United States vs. Gus Smitzer and George Reeb, 1897. Stage coach robbery. 17 pages. Possibly by U.S. Commissioner John W. Meldram. Item 75.
R.O. Vandercook. Typed account of bicycle trip through Yellowstone National Park, 1892. 7 pages. Patriotic article printed from Graphic Arts, August 1941. Letter from Edmund Rogers, copy, 1945. Item 76.
Henry Dana Washburn. Commission as Colonel of Indiana Volunteer Militia, 1862.; discharge paper, 1865; letter from M.D. Beal to A.L. Haines, July 11, 1964; memo from A.L. Haines to M.D. Beal, July 13, 1964; Masonic Order resolutions - 2 pp.; documents sent to Mrs. Washburn at death of H.D. Washburn: Knights Templar - biography - 3 pp.; employees of H.D. Washburn - 1 p.; Committee for Citizens of Montana - 2 pp.; Chas. Craft - Knights Templar - 1 p.; Address of Cornelius Hedges - 6 pp.; Speaker of the House of Representatives - 1 p.; Resolutions of the House of Representatives - 1 p. Item 77.
Serena J. Washburn. Suede bound reminiscences (54 pages) entitled Autobiography of Serena J. Washburn, 1836-1904. (It includes a trip up the Missouri in a steamboat in 1869. Nothing about the park.) Letter from Mary Dana Rodriguez, April 5, 1965. Letter of gift to National Park Service, August 11, 1965. Letter to Mary Dana Rodriguez, June 26, 1965. Item 78.
Andrew J. Weikert. Journal of tour of the Yellowstone National Park in August and September, 1877 (The Nez Perce Raid). Item 79.
Diaries of Park Scouts. Whittaker, George - Diaries of a Park Scout - 1898, 1899, 1900. Item 80.
Diaries of Park Scouts (continued). Burgess, F. - Diaries of a Park Scout - 1898, 1899; Leatherman, George M. - Diaries of a Park Scout - 1899; Morrison, James G. - Diaries of a Park Scout - 1898, 1899. Gives information about poaching in the park. Item 80 (continued).
Mode Wineman. Through Yellowstone National Park into Jackson Hole Country. Narrative to Upper Geyser Basin. An account of the wanderings of a lover of the wildwood, illustrated with camera studies by the author, Mode Wineman. (Author of Scenes in Yosemite', Adventures in Alaska', etc., 1908 Item 81.
Mode Wineman (continued). Original journal: Upper Geyser basin to Tower Falls. Item 81 (continued).
Arthur Woodward. A brief account of the services of J.W. Redington in the Nez Perce Campaign of 1877. 11 pp. (A more complete account is in "Scouting with the U.S. Army, 1876-1877", by J.W. Redington, The Frontier, a Magazine of the Northwest, November 1932, p.55-68). Item 82.
A.W. Orton. Some thoughts on the early life of Nathaniel P. Langford. Item 83.
James W. Taylor. James W. Taylor: a biographical sketch, by Theodore C. Blegen, Minnesota History Bulletin, volume 1, number 4; November 4, 1915. (Taylor was a brother-in-law of N.P. Langford. After early years working in the lumber industry of Saskatchewan, he became a school teacher and newspaper columnist. Special interests were the American annexation of Western Canadian Provinces and the development of Indian Lands. He became secretary of the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad in 1857 and this line became part of the Northern Pacific. He investigated Canadian-American problems as a special Treasury Department and State Department employee between 1860-1870. Between 1870-1893 he was U.S. Consul at Winnepeg. He handled American Canadian relations during the rebellion lead by Louis David Riel. He had much to do with the development of the Red River of the North, etc.) Item 84.
The collection consists primarily of writings, drafts and final published works of the fly fishing and fly tying writer Dave Hughes. Varying levels of manuscript and magazine article drafts illustrate project progression and Hughes' writing process. Most works are non-fiction, relating to fly fishing and fly tying, but there are also some fiction works and works of poetry. The collection also includes both records of Hughe's daily life and his firsthand fly fishing experience in the form of fishing Logs and pocket journals where he has noted both environmental conditions, and the methods he and his companions used while fishing. Most of his experience is in the Rocky Mountain Region and Northwestern United States, but his writings also include fishing trips and travel in Canada, Japan, and Chile. There are both illustrated and physical examples of fly fishing lures, and other illustrative materials that were used in the production of his published works.
Oregon BLM map; Collection of articles in three ring binder
This series includes both edited drafts and final manuscripts of several of his published books. Final manuscripts in the collection are all unbound printouts of the final work, as well as some digital copies on removable media. Drafts vary from handwritten first drafts, to edited progressive drafts illustrating his editorial process. Some of the draft material includes unpublished chapters and working notes such as outlines and other writing ideas. Also included are illustrative materials such as sketches of page layouts and suggestions for illustrations.
typed drafts and Authors Proof
typed draft pages 1-250 and Style Sheet
typed draft pages 250-579
typed first draft
typed final draft
draft 1-200, image plates and correspondence with publisher
draft 201-550
draft 551-884 and Index
typed draft and handwritten research notes
typed draft
author proofs
typed draft and chapter outline notes
typed draft and photo script
the unpublished chapters
revised edition draft
revised edition draft
revised edition notes, hatch list, author proofs
notes and author proof
author proof 1-66
67-index
pattern list with hand tied flies; proofs of book cover; casting diagrams; 17 photos and 2 color print fly images for book
author proof
early typed draft
typed draft
These materials encapsulate writings that did not result in a book publication. These writings further illustrate and preserve Hughes' writing process and the collaborative process of contributing to popular publications.
handwritten draft
final typed draft
typed draft
typed draft published in anthology City Fishing
typed drafts published in Fly, Rod and Reel
typed drafts unpublished
notes, draft, and timeline published in An Anglers Astoria
published in Big Sky Journal
Fishing for Memorable Moments, Roof Hunter, Tied to the Tides, Things That Go Thump in the Lake
typed draft
notes, chapter outlines, and handwritten draft
note cards and editor correspondence
typed draft pages 1-250
typed draft pages 251-494
typed draft parts 1 and 2 with several handwritten note pages/cards
typed draft
typed draft pages 1-278
typed draft pages 279-494
typed draft (Wet Flies)
typed draft (Wet Flies) and reading list
typed draft (Wet Flies)
6 total and thank you card to Dave, typed draft of Soft hackled flies, and unbound authors copy
draft and photo list
Workshop booklets: Nymphs for Streams and Stillwaters. 16 pages; Matching Hatches Simplified. 16 pages; Tying Trout Stream Nymphs. 16 pages; Small Stream Trout Flies:Ten Deadlies. 8 pages; Small Stream Trout Flies: A deadly dozen. 8 pages
Throughout his fishing career Dave Hughes took detailed notes on his outings and trips. His fishing logs are formatted templates that record: Date, Time, Stream/Lake, Section (of lake/stream), Who (was in attendance), Transportation, Weather, Weather Temperature, Water Conditions, Water Temperature, Natural, Time, Imitation, Methods, Fish, and Notes. Included within the pages and binders are other materials related to his experience like receipts, fishing licenses, fishing regulations, event and guide service fliers, sketches of the flies used, maps and directions to fishing locations, and "book of lists" which are organized checklists of items he needed for camping, fishing, boating, and hunting. Some physical fishing flies are also included.
Dave Hughes kept pocket size journals for use taking notes in the moment. Many of the notes on water conditions and fishing lures used may have been transcribed later into his fishing logs, and other notes included are comprised of names and addresses for various people, trip experiences, writing ideas and notes such as lines of poetry, checklists and brief reminders. Most of the titles and dates are taken either from the titles provided by Hughes or from the dates included within the notebooks. Physical fishing flies have also been attached to pages within the notebooks.
Mamie's letter to a relative or friend George Bender in Missouri at Thanksgiving time relates the life she is leading on the homestead. It includes mention of rending lard, butchering hogs, the crops and Floyd's activities. She describes visits from neighbors and relatives which she attributes to the fact that they have a radio. Mamie also indulges in local gossip about the activities of people of the neighborhood - who is in the hospital, who is traveling on Christmas, who has changed jobs or bought a new business. She also describes items that are not available in Benchland to George and requests a style of hat for Floyd.
The Robert Dunbar papers consist of research, drafts, and speeches documenting to his teaching career and academic scholarship. The first series contains Dunbar's teaching files and includes periodicals, pamphlets, maps, lecture notes, and syllabi related to the courses he taught. A professor of history, Dunbar taught on a wide variety of subjects including ancient civilizations, medieval Europe, modern Europe, American foreign policy, the American west, and history of agriculture.
The series two is the most extensive, and features drafts and research for Dunbar's scholarly publications, speeches, and general research on agricultural history. This series contains voluminous files related to his research for the article "The Initiation of the McNary-Haugen Movement in Montana and the Pacific Northwest," which he co-author Marguerita ("Rita") McDonald and focuses on farm relief programs in the mid-1920s. It also contains extensive research for his articles "Economic Development of the Gallatin Valley" and "History of Agriculture." Materials related to Dunbar's speeches included notes, transcripts, and correspondence. Topics of his talks include the Spanish Civil War, European conditions pre-World War II, the United Nations, and the development of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). He also maintained a large array of general research files on topics in agricultural history.
The last three series document to Dunbar's involvement with Montana State College (later Montana State University) activities and professional organizations. They include files related to his work with the Curriculum and Instruction Committee, as his work as Director for the Center for Inter-Cultural Affairs, founder of the International Studies Center, establishment of a Peace Corps program (Ecuador/Heifer), and involvement in the International Farm Youth Exchange program. Files on professional organizations include the Great Plains Foundation, The Montana Farmers Union, and the Agricultural History Society.
Files containing research notes, term papers, newspaper clippings, brochures, maps, copies of articles, lecture notes, syllabi, lecture outlines, bibliographies, collected subject files resulting from personal history courses taken and history courses taught during Mr. Dunbar' career.
Series 2 has been arranged in 3 sub-series: 1. Research files identified with publications; "Washington the Farmer," "History of Agriculture," "The Farmer and the American Way," "The Economic Development of the Gallatin Valley," "The Initiation of the McNary-Haugen Movement in Montana and the Pacific Northwest," and "Forging New Rights in Western Waters;" 2. Research files created for speeches, talks and presentations having topics of pre-World War II conditions, the United Nations and the USDA; 3. his remaining files on agricultural history include agricultural organizations, general nature within subject areas related to his professional activities and interests.
This subseries contains research files related to Dunbar's published scholarship. Research files identified with the following publications: "Washington the Farmer;" Western Farm Life, v. 42:3, Feb.1, 1940; "History of Agriculture;" chapter 5 of v. 2, Colorado and Its People, 1948; The Farmer and the American Way, Oxford Book Co., 1952; "The Economic Development of Gallatin County;" Pacific Northwest Quarterly, v. 47:4, Oct. 1956; "The Initiation of the McNary-Haugen Movement in Montana and the Pacific Northwest," Pacific Northwest Quarterly, v.71:2, Rita McDonald and Robert G. Dunbar, Apr. 1980; and Forging New Rights in Western Waters, University of Nebraska Press, 1983.
Research files for "The Initiation of the McNary-Haugen Movement in Montana and the Pacific Northwest" are the most well represented in this series and feature photocopies of original reports, newspaper articles, correspondence, meeting minutes, and hearings. They also include Dunbar's notes, timelines, and bibliographies. Individuals featured in the research files include E. J. Bell, Calvin Coolidge, Dwight R. Cresap, Chester C. Davis, Hubert Edbert, Frank R. Gooding, Gilbert N. Haugen, Herbert Hoover, George J. Jewett, Edward C. Johnson, Eugene Meyer, Jr., Frank W. Mondell, Charles L. McNary, Walter J. Robinson, James S. Shideler, John W. Summers, O. F. Tate, Henry C. Taylor, Samuel R. Thompson, William L. Thompson, Henry C. Wallace, Frank J. Wilmer and M.L. Wilson. The activities of American Wheat Growers Associated, Inc., the Montana Export Commission League, the Washington Export League, the Portland Chamber of Commerce and reports of the Colfax, Washington meeting, Spokane meeting, and Meyer-Mondell mission are represented in distinct files. The remainder of these papers are research and a draft for an earlier article in 1969 on the McNary-Haugen bill by Rita McDonald, a typed set of notes, chronology of events and table of contents by Rita McDonald, drafts, critiques, footnotes, corrections of the final article, and an extensive exchange of correspondence with some enclosures between the two authors.
There are also extensive research files for his article "Economic Development of the Gallatin Valley." These files contain collected notes on sawmills, flour mills, coal mines, creameries and agricultural businesses; interviews with Elmer Bartholomew, Walter Cooper, Donald Corcoran, C.S. Kenyon, Rex Labertew, C.B. Moore, George Morgan, George R. Porter, George P. Reller, Frank Stone, Norman L. Towne, Charles Vandenhook and Lee H. Williams; papers (Seed Pea industry and lumber industry).
His research on Forging New Rights in Western Waters features extension bulletins, articles, transcriptions of interviews with Clarence Hinkle, Fred Hennighhausen, Herman R. Crile and John Scully, and correspondence with Albert G. Feidler, Herman R. Crile and others on water rights and irrigation
His files for the "History of Agriculture" chapter on Colorado include research on dry land farming, fruit and melon industries, lamb and sheep rearing, potatoes, migrant workers and immigration, radicalism, suffrage, rural free delivery, and the San Luis Valley.
This subseries contains research files created for Dunbar's speeches or addresses. They include two speeches to unknown audience on the Spanish Civil War and conditions in Europe 1936, a talk to the Rotary Club - 1939; a Farmer-Labor Institute talk, 1958; several talks on the United State Department of Agriculture (USDA), 1964-69; and a United Nations Day address, 1961.
This subseries contains Dunbar's general research files on agricultural history. These files feature bibliographies, notes, copies of journal articles, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, essays, maps, brochures, transcriptions of interviews and correspondence. These files cover research on Montana agricultural history, the Farm Bureau, National Farmers Organization, National Farmers Union, Non-Partisan League, Grange, Equity, Farmers Alliance, the Land Grant College System, water resources, climate, crops and livestock, the American frontier and westward movement, machinery, land policy, snow surveys, and rural sociology. Special topics include the Holland Settlement in Montana, Fairway Farm Project, Kinsey Flats/Case-Wheeler Projects, M. L. Wilson - taped remembrances of Edward Bell and Dr. Robert Dunbar, and the seed pea industry in Gallatin County, Montana.
Transcriptions of interviews include Jack Taylor, Hobart E. Myrick, Mildred K. Stoltz, E. A. Willson, Elmer Starch and John G. Parker; addresses by Roland R. Renne and R. G. Dunbar.
Also included are materials on Napoleonic France, Europe, and sundry topics of historical interest. The files were not identifiable as related to any particular work product of Robert Dunbar's but were used for publications, lectures, talks, speeches and conferences. The files have been arranged alphabetically by topic. * (These items filed with audio/visual materials).
Files associated with Dr. Dunbar's career at Montana State University. These include his role as a member of the Curriculum and Instruction Committee including correspondence with numerous faculty members, Director for the Center for Inter-Cultural Affairs, founder of the International Studies Center, establishment of a Peace Corp program (Ecuador/Heifer) - includes extensive correspondence with Ray and Verena Borton of the Agricultural Development Council, Inc., the International Farm Youth Exchange program, and papers related to these programs.
Included are files for: 1. The Great Plains Foundation where he served as chairman of the committee for its original organization, papers include drafts of proposals, by-laws and correspondence relative to setting up the foundation; 2. The Montana Farmers Union for which he served on the Education Task Force. There is correspondence between Margaret Bucher, Director of Education about talks to the State School program and the Writer's Project, Ralph R. Cook regarding talks at picnics and camps across Montana and Leonard Kenfield as President of Montana Farmers Union. Also, he and Mildred K. Stoltz corresponded extensively about her history of the Montana Farmers Union. Research notes, publications (brochures, pamphlets, etc.) are interspersed in the files. Policy positions of the National Farmers Union and a set of Pioneer, the newsletter of the Educational Dept. complete the papers; 3. The Agricultural History Society where he was on the Editorial Board and later was President (1966-67), included are letters from Everett E. Edwards, Wayne D. Rasmussen, Vernon Carstensen and other editors, copies of reviews he wrote, missives on the hopes of a committee on World Agricultural History at the FAO and letters to authors with critiques and encouragement.
The files consist of lists of books, articles and reviews authored by Robert G. Dunbar, copies of some of the articles (published items present in the library are individually cataloged), a file on the Dead Sea Scrolls, a set of personal and professional correspondence (with some enclosures) chronologically arranged, personal correspondence and loose papers and personal ephemera. Letters of recommendation from students and colleagues for educational institutions, organizations and government agencies are restricted. **
The Stuart E. Knapp salmon poisoning research collection consists of manuscripts, journal articles, and personal correspondence documenting Dr. Stuart E. Knapps research on salmon poisoning. The bulk of Knapp's research files pertain directly to the evolution of study of the trematode Nanophyetus Salmoncola by Knapp, his contemporaries, and predecessors. They consist of handwritten notes taken while observing test subjects, results of testing, correspondence, and typewritten manuscript journal articles.
Authors of collected manuscript articles include: D. F. Sinitsin, Bennett T. Simms, D. R. Donham, J. N. Shaw, A. M. McCapes, Raymond E. Millemann, O. H. Muth, Elwin E. Bennington, Karl B. Hanson, Emile F. Pernot, Nathan Fasten, and Fred W. Miller.
This collection includes all the faculty biographical files that were created prior to the abandonment of the practice. Originally interfiled with examples of the particular faculty member's publications, many of these files bear the unique University Archives classification numbers that had been used in lieu of the Dewey or Library of Congress systems.
Newspaper clippings, notes, letters, printed materials, photocopies and original documents pertaining to faculty members from every college within Montana State University. Not all faculty members are represented, and some files are particularly scant.
The Park Poultry Producers Association (PPPA) records include various business records including financial records, order sheets, sales records, producer contracts and correspondence from 1923-1940. Most of the correspondence is addressed to either Earl Sexton or John Nickelson, two PPPA managers during the 1930s. The records also include correspondence from the United States Department of Agriculture through pamphlets and letters giving instructions on how to kill, dress, and ship turkeys. Extensive sales lists are included for the Northwest Turkey Growers Association from 1930-1937. The records include the PPPA's Minute Book from 1923-1924, written in a Park County grade school notebook, that lists the Articles of Association, membership lists, and lists for grades of turkeys. Three unique items are a letter written in 1940 from a customer demanding to know what happened to the settlement for his turkeys, several copies of a poem and song about turkeys, and a brass plate that reads: "Park Poultry Producers Association, Livingston, Mont." Other papers include John Nickelson's inspectors' license from the USDA for dressed turkeys, a diagram for a turkey packing table, and an Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws booklet. The collection has been arranged in topically labeled folders.
The Ecton Collection contains information pertaining to Ecton's position as a U.S. Senator. Within this collection are eighteen series that follow closely to the original order put together by Ecton and his staff. The contents section and the series description of this finding aid provides a more thorough breakdown of each series. In general, the collection covers political issues at a state and national level. The topics range from correspondence, reclamation, communism and socialism, agriculture and the Brannon plan, and political opposition. There is also information dealing with other important governmental figures of the time: Senator Joseph McCarthy, General Douglas MacArthur, and others. The collection offers an overview of political history from 1947-1953.
The correspondence was mainly between Senator Ecton, his office staff, and constituents in Montana. The topics ranged from reclamation, communism, atomic energy, and a host of other political concerns. Generally, Ecton responded to each letter, and the response and the original letter are within the same file. The order of this series is chronological and alphabetical within each corresponding year except 1953, where all correspondence is in one file. Also, the correspondence in 1947 does include some correspondence from 1946.
This series covers details regarding Office Personnel and Office Space. Some of the correspondence includes individuals applying for a position on Ecton's staff. Other correspondence is between Ecton and staff members along with correspondence between staff members in Washington D.C. and staff members in Montana. The information encompassing Office Space generally follows the needs of setting up an office--renting and purchasing the necessary items for an office.
This series includes invitations received by Senator Ecton during his term as a federal senator. His constituents in Montana often invited Ecton to attend a variety of functions. Serving in the capacity of a federal senator, Ecton also received many invitations centered around national interests. Those in charge of reclamation projects and military development occasionally asked Ecton to review the progress. Ecton also received an invitation to a dinner sponsored by Albert Einstein in an effort to clear the accusations of the un-American like conduct of Edward U. Condon.
This series is simply a collection of Congressional Records and covers a variety of issues brought before the congress between 1949 and 1952.
This series is a compilation of political issues, ranging from state affairs, national affairs, and international affairs. Some of the files are specific to Ecton's activities in Washington D.C., yet other files include a summary of the Hiss Trial, federal finances, and many other political concerns during Ecton's time in Washington D.C.
This series contains some information regarding the Brannon Plan, and correspondence between Ecton and his constituents related to the Brannon Plan. Additional information discusses natural resources and the importance of natural resources for the future of the country
This series mainly deals with Valley Authorities, including the Missouri Valley Authority and Columbia Valley Authority. Some files include correspondence concerning the Valley Authorities. Valley Authority bills and power utilities are also part of this series along with a statement from Harold Ickes and Floyd Dominy's resume.
This series contains a variety of information dealing with the Republican Party mainly at a National level. Speech material and campaign issues are part of this series, including Ecton's "The Meaning of Things"--a collection of papers written by Ecton, explaining his perspective of the state of affairs. Part of this series also details Republican activity in certain committees, which generally deals with their opposition, the Democrats.
This series generally deals with the Republican Party in Montana and the campaign efforts involving Senator Ecton. Some of the files include information concerning committee members in Montana and their work regarding Ecton's campaign. Other files contain speeches made in Montana during Ecton's visits along with his itinerary. There is also general information regarding advertising and broadcasting.
This series mainly contains a list of individuals, performing various occupations in Montana, such as the sheepmen's' list, physicians' list, etc. Rules of Senate and House for Montana are also part of this series--1933, 1935, 1937, 1939, 1941.
This series mainly contains Mansfield's voting records, remarks, and legislation through 1948-1952. Ecton collected this data in preparation for his campaign against Mansfield in the 1952 election. Mansfield defeated Ecton.
This series includes files pertaining to tubercular Indians and treatment at Galen Hospital. Also in this series are several Bill related to Indian affairs.
This series contains information pertaining to Communism and Socialism. The Republican Party maintained an anti-communism and anti-socialism and most of the information reflects this agenda.
This series includes files regarding Senator McCarthy, Senator Martin, Congressman D'Ewart, and General MacArthur. Each file is specific to the person and contains a variety of information based on their role in the government. For instance, the McCarthy files provide some biographical discussion but also pertain to McCarthy's involvement in the federal government.
This series is a collection of general subject materials put together by Ecton and his staff. It ranges from newspaper clippings, speech material, congressional records, and more.
This series is mainly newspaper clippings, covering a variety of topics. Some of the files are under specific names, but the content within the file is generally a newspaper clipping about the person, such as the Eisenhower file.
This series includes several photographs of Ecton, members of congress, and other events during Ecton's service as a federal senator. The last file contains some information regarding some of the photographs.
Photograph #22 removed and placed in oversize folder (enlarged picture of Ecton).
This series contains one binder with congressional records for the 1st session of the 81st Congress and eight scrapbooks pertaining to Ecton and his service as a federal senator. Generally, the scrapbooks contain newspaper clippings linked to Ecton or other governmental issues during his time as a senator.
The collection consists of records from the Granite Mountain Mining Company followed by records of the Granite-BiMetallic Consolidated Mining Company and some materials of T. H. Kleinschmidt, a mine investor. The papers include copy ledger books; letter and account copy files; a time book; expense bills and receipts from suppliers and shippers; survey information; records of smelting, shipping and purchases of the mined ores; leases, bids, agreements and stockholder communications and some miscellaneous post cards and pay check stubs.
(fragile)
The MSU Theatre collection consists of materials dealing with specific productions, such as scripts, photographs, playbills, advertisements and other documentation. Other materials deal with the history of the general administration of the theatre program or its physical setting on campus. Oversize materials pertaining to specific productions have been gathered in boxes 17-21. The collection is non-exhaustive with about 90% of the productions coming from 1906–1993.
Research materials arranged by date and Production name. They may include brief histories, scripts, programs, brochures, pamphlets, newspaper clippings; news releases; photocopies; slides, photographs and photocopied photographs, and playbills.
Photographs, blueprints, memorandums and other material pertaining to the MSU theatre program but not specifically related to any particular production. Also included are production photographs and slides that cannot be positively matched to a particular production.
The Hayne family papers consist of Jack Hayne's research files, records of the Dupuyer Social Club and community, Harriet's political papers, family correspondence, family personal papers, photograph and scrapbook albums, and loose photographs. The collection has been divided into series reflecting these divisions.
After arriving in Dupuyer, Jack Hayne took on the role of historian by diving into and researching a multitude of subjects relating to Montana and the West. He liked to focus on the towns and events in Montana: The Baker Massacre, Dupuyer, Conrad, Montana and Alberta based railroads, and other topics. These papers consist of the materials he collected during his research on those topics: Newspapers, photos, magazine articles, letters and documents. Photos related to this series are numbers: 1-72.
[AM Ester]
(Miscellaneous)
(Miscellaneous)
School District 2
Clippings
The Dupuyer Social Club was a leading community influencer in Dupuyer and the surrounding areas. The club held picnics, ran Community Theater and administered news about the town and its members in a weekly newsletter. Harriett Hayne was a leading member of the club and help organize many of the projects the club participated in. This includes minute books, financial records and newsletters sponsored by the club. Photos related to this series are numbers: 73-75.
Harriett Hayne served as a state representative for Montana for almost twenty years. This collection contains papers and articles relating to her political career. Legislative reports and articles, bills, and programs she worked on are included. Located in the flat box, there are election materials and signs relating to her time in office as well. Photos related to this series are numbers: 76-85.
The Flat box contains various objects pertaining to Harriette Hayne's political career and achievements. Including posters, campaign materials and various awards and plaques for her service to the state of Montana and the Republican Party.
Letters sent by various members of the Hayne family to friends, family and colleagues. The letters are sorted by date written and sent.
Documents, pamphlets, articles, letters, greeting cards and certificates that deal with the personal aspect of the Hayne family. Topics like family histories, school records, and military service records represent a majority of the collection, however personal property deeds and certificate can be found here as well. Photos related to this series are numbers: 86-258.
(Farm)
(High Frontier)
(Live Insurance)
(Sun River Electorate Co-Op)
(4-H Leadership)
Jack Hayne
The photo albums were labeled by physical description and grouped by content. The content ranges from the Hayne's personal military service to Harriett's political career. Loose photographs were identified, sorted into groups that correspond with pervious series in the collection and filed into group folders. Oversized images have been separated and moved to an oversized location. Folders with separating notices are marked with an asterisk(*).
(Wood Cover)
The Three Forks Lewis and Clark Expedition observances collection consists of one anonymous notebook, with typed leaves pasted on its pages, describing the origins of the Bert Hansen pageant, names of early actors, and some incidents which occurred during its 1950s-era performances. Two separate bound copies of photocopied pageant scripts written by Bert Hansen are in the collection, one untitled and undated and the other, combining the scripts of "Outward Bound" and "Homeward Bound," as performed in 1955. A folder of newspaper clippings describing the pageant, and another containing broadsides and programs from Lewis and Clark expedition observances from 1945 through the 1950s complete the collection.
This collection includes a reel of audio taped oral history and a typed copy of the transcription of the tape. Subjects: Manhattan, Logan, the Holland Settlement and other nearby communities; companies and industries including the Manhattan Malting Company and malt plant, the Montana Pulp and Paper Company and pulp mill, flour mills, cement plant and Ideal Cement; the earthquake of 1925; the Gallatin Female Seminary; the water supply; and prominent community leaders and businessmen that include George Sinton, Walter Cooper, Henry Heeb, and E. W. King. Numerous anecdotes of the life and personalities in the early years around Manhattan are scattered throughout. Audio compact disc renderings of the audiotape are available for research use.
The Gallatin County Sheriff's Office records include logbooks related to the criminal and law enforcement duties of the sheriff's office. Included in the collection are sheriff's daybooks which contain information pertaining to court transactions, a logbook of incoming telephone calls to the office, a logbook recording the mileage accumulated during criminal investigations, and receipt books of monetary transactions of the sheriff's office. One item of interest are the arrest books which contain information about the arrest such as a physical description of the person, details of the charges, and when the person was released. Other records within the collection pertain to the duties of the sheriff's office within the community. These records include receipts of cattle sales, cattle inspection certificates, registration of firearms, and bounty certificates for the killing of predator animals for the protection of livestock. A web archive begins in 2020.
(Receipts books include transaction of money coming into the sheriff's office, mostly for deposits on vehicle licenses. Also includes receipts of money the sheriffs returned as evidence, fines, and bonds.)
(Day books logging calls coming into the Sheriff's office reporting crimes. Includes information concerning criminal actions in Gallatin County. Deed book is a record of land deed transfers and foreclosures)
(Bounty paid out for the killing of predator animals for the protection of livestock)
These records pertain to the establishment, operation and membership of the Montana State College chapter of the Phi Kappa Phi Honor Society. Included herein is an assortment of presidential records, membership lists and correspondence, records of awards programs and financial transactions. The records have been organized into three series dealing with executive operations, membership activity, and a limited number of financial transaction files.
This series contains the constitution and manual of instruction for the chapter to supplement the initial by-laws and subsequent revisions. Also included are the president's annual reports from 1930 to 1943, and the minutes of chapter meetings spanning the years of 1921 to 1945. The contents are arranged by category and chronologically thereafter.
These records pertain exclusively with activities dealing directly with members. Boxes 2 and 3 contain all of the correspondence between the chapter and members from 1921 to 1944 in addition to folders dedicated to general notices and circulation letters. Box 4 contains both the records of membership from 1921 to 1955 and a collection of programs dealing directly with the members such as honors days, assemblies and banquets and awards certificates. Two folders contained in box 5 contain petitions started by members of the chapter. The records have been arranged by category and thereafter by date.
Bank account records and other papers pertaining to the financial dealings of the chapter. There are folders for the National Secretary's records, the Treasurer's records, a comprehensive cash book and two folders dedicated to the receipts of transactions at the Commercial National Bank.
The Florence Penwell papers consist of a sample of wallpaper from the Penwell home in Gallatin County and a handwritten schedule listing only dates and months for the "Fourth Quarterly Meetings" of the "North Montana Mission," likely for the Methodist Church, ca. 1880s. The collection also includes the following four handwritten letters sent to Florence Penwell: from Methodist minister William Wesley Van Orsdel in Havre, Montana, October 18, [1882], describing his travels for church work; from "Addie" in Bozeman, Montana, June 21, 1891, arranging a Fourth of July visit to the Penwell farm; C. W. Hill of White Sulphur Springs, Montana, August 10, 1897, making arrangements for a visit to the Penwell home; from Esther [Penwell?] of Illinois, March 25, 1901, giving some family news and genealogy information.
The John Stands in Timber interview was conducted by Margo Liberty, Merrill G. Burlingame, Virginia S. Burlingame, Verne Dusenbery, and Betsy Miles at the Liberty home near Birney, Montana in October 1959. Most of the conversation on the audio recording reel concerns the ages and actions of various Cheyenne men who had either participated in the Custer battle or other incidents of tribal history. A handwritten summary of the conversation prepared by Merrill G. Burlingame is also included, although it is not an exact transcription. There is no paragraph separation between the questions and answers on the summary. The text roughly follows the same information found on pages 326-327 of A Cheyenne Voice, but there are several omissions and additions to the wording. A brief recording of Liberty speaking to an unknown group regarding the Missouri Headwaters area precedes the interview with Stands in Timber.
The William F. Brewer papers consist of two folders that primarily document his involvement with the Montana Education Association, although a few personal items have been included. The correspondence folder contains letters to and from Brewer to the Montana Education Association leadership and other education associations elsewhere, as well as a few personal notes and greeting cards, 1929-1962. The documents folder contains minutes, publications, and other printed or mimeographed material pertaining to the Montana Education Association from1929-1939 and two typewritten reports from Brewer regarding his experiences at the Montana Education Association meetings in 1936 and 1937.
The interviews cover a wide variety of historical subjects including: agriculture, amusements, business, industry, merchants, churches, communications, education, electrical power, ethnic groups, the Depression, homemaking, immigrants, Native Americans, medicine, Montana State College, organizations, frontier and pioneer life, politics and government, prominent families, religion, social life and customs, Spanish American War, transportation, weather and natural disasters, World War I, and World War II. Places mentioned Belgrade, Bozeman, Bridger Canyon, Chestnut, Churchill, Gallatin Canyon, Manhattan, Salesville, Springhill, Three Forks, and Yellowstone National Park.
The Agricultural Economics Department Research Project Records are an extensive set of files that document the activities of various personnel in surveying and interpreting agricultural development in Montana. While some of the material may have been used by Wilson in preparing his 1923 publication, specifically those in Series 32, "Successful Farms," most of these research projects took place afterwards. The subjects of the various projects include rural housing, financing, dairy operations, rural electrification, meat trade, irrigation, and taxation. Investigators include Richard J. McConnen, Pius Weisgerber, Clive Harston, Laurence O. Baker, Jack R. Davidson, Roy E. Huffman, D.C. Myrick, Glenn H. Craig, Charles W. Loomer, M.E. Quenemoen, M.H. Saunderson Paul Pilati, W. Rehberg, and H. Walton. The records have been divided into 43 series titled with the project name.
Richard J. McConnen served as the principal investigator for this study. This series consists of memoranda, notes, tables of figures, handwritten description of the study, survey forms, and statistical figures. The Economic Survey consists of a series of mimeographed tables with figures. No written summary of this study is present.
Pius Weisberger served as the principal investigator for this study. This contains no final report. Included are a research project statement, meeting memo, proposal on a regional project, a talk by Ira M. Stevens, and a paper on the marketing of lambs.
This series provides the name of no principal investigator nor does it contain a summary or final report. It includes handwritten notes, Federal Register reprints, a graph, barley shipments via rail for Montana, other railroad freight for 1960-61, a barley production/animal unit chart, and a price per bushel/bushels per animal chart.
Clive Harston of Montana State College's Department of Agricultural Economics served as the principal investigator. Series 4 concerns loss of weight in livestock during shipment and its effects on market price received by western stock raisers. It contains pamphlets on the general topic of shrinkage, lambs, announcements, requests for copies and draft reviews, draft of circular, handwritten notes, other related papers and clippings, and field notes of interviews. The first and second of the planned series of three circulars (#s 220-222), "Cattle Shrinkage Depends on How You Market," "Cattle Shrinkage: Depends on Where, When and What You Market," are present in mimeographed form.
Clive R. Harston of Montana State College's Department of Agricultural Economics served as the principal investigator for this study. This series includes letters of suggestion that a study be done, letters pleading lack of funding for such a project, booklets/pamphlets on cooperative grain marketing and elevators, a final report form, an annual progress report form, and a research project statement. There is no final, full report in this series.
The principal investigator was Clive R. Harston of Montana State College's Department of Agricultural Economics. Items include a research project statement, notes, correspondence, and a study contract draft. There is no final report in this series.
The name of a Dr. Baker appears on one of the items. This may be Laurence O. Baker who was an assistant professor of Agronomy at this time. This series includes work tables, notes, charts, and survey forms. There is no final report in this series.
This series consists of questionnaires, theses, and a final report, which appears as Montana Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin 586. Principal investigators included Robert L. Sargent, graduate research assistant at MSC, Jack R. Davidson, Associate Professor, Department of Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology, Montana Agricultural Experiment Station, Bozeman, and Lawrence A. Jones, agricultural economist, Economic Research, U.S.D.A. The purpose of this study was "to determine whether or not credit is as readily available for home building, remodeling or purchasing in rural areas as in the urban areas of Montana." Bulletin 586 is in Box 3, Folder 4. A mimeo of Robert L. Sargent's thesis, "Availability of Rural Housing Credit in Montana," has been removed from this collection since the thesis is available in MSU library. The series also includes a mimeo of "Availability of Rural Housing Credit in Montana," with some variation from the bulletin, in Box 3, Folders 5-8.
Principal investigators are not listed. This series includes survey forms presented to commercial bank real estate brokers, attorneys, and similar individuals, mortgage companies, agents, savings and loan associations in Montana, correspondence, and questionnaires.
This series consists of survey forms labeled as "personal interview." Montana areas surveyed included, Butte, Billings, Dillon, Glendive, Great Falls, Havre, Kalispell, Shelby, and Sidney. Information on these forms includes the sex of the interviewee, meats purchased, shopping frequency, influences and habits, meat consumption during week, occupation, age, education, home when growing up, years in Montana, and income.
This series includes surveys of Phillips, Prairie, and Yellowstone Counties. It comprises information on poor farms, delinquent children, housing, mortgages, grazing capacity, families on relief survey forms, aid applications, maps, county agent annual reports, occupations, survey report forms, and ownership. A survey report for Phillips County is in Folders 40-44 and consists of charts, graphs, and tables. The Report on Survey of Prairie County is in Folders 61-66. A survey report for Yellowstone County is in Folders 74-75 with some tables missing.
This includes schedules for "Farm Organization and Production Requirements in Selected Irrigated Areas," and is dated October 1948. Roy E. Huffman and D.C. Myrick served as principal investigators. Schedules include information on the area of owned and rented cropland, grazing, livestock, crop types, irrigation, crop rotation, fertilizer and manuring, farm labor, inter-farm cooperation, mechanical and other innovations, machinery and equipment, and farm expenses and receipts.
Includes family schedules providing names of owners, farm location, numbers in family and household, nationality, beet acreage, division of earning, and notations. Solo Worker Schedules include owner or tenant name, numbers of workers, wage agreement, resident and migrant workers with nationalities, contracted acres, and notations.
Farm and ranch schedules include name, address, ages farm experience, supply center location and distance from farm, type of farming, how started in farming, land used in crop production, real estate indebtedness, production credit, machinery and improvement financing, attitudes, farm supply expenditures, family living expense, major farm improvements, livestock enterprises, and machinery and equipment.
Merchant and Dealer Schedules provide information on location, type of merchandise, sales to farmers, farmer credit sales, interest charges and terms of repayment, credit extended on open account, basis for credit arrangements, credit terms on open account purchases, loss on open account credit, opinions on credit use, prefer cash or credit terms, sales vs. credit, and presence of credit department.
This study includes a handwritten "Report on Economic Study of the Shonkin Extension of the Sun River Electric Coop" by L. Thompson (pages missing); various tables constructed from collected data; Summary Sheet—Farm Records which cover crop and land use, feed use, land, building, livestock, equipment, and credits and debts inventories, electric equipment, miscellaneous factors, and notes.
These schedules include data about land location, name and address of owner, erosion, strip cropping, crop residues, use of permanent vegetative cover, renovating land in permanent cover, water facilities, diversion ditches for flood irrigation, windbreaks, contour furrows on pasture land, and effect on farm organization and management.
Includes information on numbers and acreages of wheat farms, combination farms, and stock ranches, seeded wheat acres, wheat yields, feed crops, animal units, and area summaries; progress in studies; agricultural policy material concerning requisitions, emergency war agencies, responsibilities of agencies, Northern Plains Regional Study, Northwest Regional Council, new research projects, Chronology of American Agriculture (1790-1940), and commodity reports; old frequencies; worksheets; resource productivity data; computation sheets; miscellaneous; dairy sales; crop types in counties; industrial incomes; income material; labor earnings; livestock industry; livestock income shares; experiment station financial report; livestock contributions; agricultural production; Canadian agriculture; wheat, hay, sugar beets, flax, potatoes, rye, barley, oats, corn horses, mules, and cattle data; Northern Plains tenure; Montana plains type of farming; flax and tariff; range and livestock; ranch management and organization, farm records and accounts; forms for feeding records, farm business records, farm tractor records, farm inventory.
Glenn H. Craig was the principal investigator for this study which covers areas in Canada and Montana. Numbers in parentheses represent the schedule numbers assigned to the original folders in this study. Data includes name and location of the elevator, corporate and cooperative features, management, membership, credit analysis, side lines and services, general information, assets, liabilities, grain, surplus analysis, shipping record, selected statistics, balance sheets, operating statements, comparative statistics, income, and sales. Box 10, Folder 18 contains "Preliminary Analysis of Farmer's [sic] Elevator Operations, 1937-1938."
Includes original manuscript for "Collective Tenure in Montana" by Glenn H. Craig and Charles W. Loomer, the principal investigators for this study.
Partial records summary provides some data for 1940 farm size, expenses, income, and resources.
Forms for Flathead County dairy farms including farmers' names, dairy sales distribution, and seasonal variation
Provides information on operator names, investment costs, irrigation development and drainage costs, pasture development, reservoirs, dugouts, springs, wells, irrigation history, cattle, sheep, other livestock and products, machinery, labor, taxes, grazing, crop production and use.
Includes data concerning crops, pasture, non-farm income, loans, grazing practices, calf crop, cattle, sheep, swine, land valuation, ownership and land use, irrigated range and farmland, land tenure and production, rangeland cut for hay and value, family organization and farm-livestock practices, expenses, and livestock tabulation.
Provides information related to Glen Craig's ranch study in the form of letters, budgets, manuscript drafts, and notes. No final manuscript is present.
Contains notes, and questions and statements on health, nutrition, medical care, size of unit, tenure, labor and migration, credit and taxation, and the conservation and use of forest resources, related to maximizing contributions to the war effort (WWII), special topics, and correspondence.
Proffers manuscript, "Dairy Production Alternatives in Western Montana," cost reducing, coding, articles, annual reports, progress reports, news clippings, "It's Your Business! Dairy Production Alternatives for Western Montana," data forms, notes, publications, analyses, dairy farm locations, land size and tenure, dairy size and type, labor, crop system, livestock system, other income, power, machines, equipment, farm expenses, husbandry, pasture management, breeding practices and cow replacement, dairy expenses, milk handling, dairy marketing, district maps, irrigation.
Study conducted by the Montana State College Agricultural Economics Department and the U.S. Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Gives operator names and locations of property, irrigation districts in Bitterroot Valley, buildings, machinery and equipment, livestock, tillage practices, map of farm with fields and crops, crops grown, irrigation, fertilization practices, labor, farm cost data, and farm income.
This series provides data from a survey of communities in Beaverhead County in 1919, including a summary sheet, community name, community dimensions, topography, post office names, number of rural routes and starting points, natural resources, chief income sources, irrigation, dry farming, tenants, owners, other industries and persons employed, relationship between businessmen and farmers, population in villages and open country, means of communication, community leadership, important institutions and organizations, newspapers, public libraries, social classes, community activities, social organizations and social life, church surveys with location, denominations, ministers, equipment, church floor plans, finance, membership numbers and occupations, meetings, parish, names of other white and negro churches, foreign population, Sunday school, other church organizations, special work, Jackson community photograph, and a two-page handwritten commentary on the survey.
Includes county summary, county name, population, other races and nationalities.
According to the inventory listing for this accession, this series may be part of Wilson's Triangle Study. Includes "Farm Survey Record" forms from the Montana Agricultural Experiment Station Department of Farm Management which provide information on the county, operator of farm, addresses, acres owned and rented, acres in various uses, crop records, livestock records and products, other income sources, feed and seed inventories, current expenses, machinery and equipment, real estate, farm finance, unpaid labor, and notes. Counties include Ravalli, Flathead, Yellowstone, Hill, Pondera, Liberty, Toole, Chouteau, Teton, Cascade, and Glacier. Forms for the cost of milk production provide data on grain fed and raised during the year, grain purchased during the year, pasture, buildings, insurance, veterinary, forage raised and fed during the year, forage purchased during the year, labor on cows, and products from cows. Counties represented include Ravalli, Yellowstone, and Flathead.
Provides information on state lands. Materials are arranged by county. Offers data concerning location, acres granted, patent, lands sold, easements and rights of way, and acreage retained by state. No report for this study is present.
This study appears to have been conducted at the behest of the Federal Government, and covers the period between 1911 and 1938. According to a cover letter in one of the files, the compiler was H.V. Brown. The data for this study appears to have been gathered in 16 Montana counties, which were then used to present a state average. There is no final report with this series, although the USDA Farm Mortgage Recordings report for Montana is included.
This series consists of research materials used by M.E. Quenemoen for his thesis, "Economic aspects of water spreader developments on southeastern Montana ranches," done in 1952 on the subject of waterspreaders. Original research questionnaires, project notes, and other items are contained here. There is no final copy of the thesis but it is available in the Special Collections stacks.
Apparently compiled during the 1930s, these reports cover all people moving into the county since 1930. Information regarding all newcomers' occupations, health, place of origin, marital status, and so on is provided. Tables are extant for the period from May to August, 1939, although the entire 1930s period is covered in terms of arrival dates.
Apparently compiled in the 1930s, this series contains tax delinquency information for properties in both Ravalli and Missoula Counties. It includes lot location maps, lists of operators (farmers?) in Ravalli County, and information regarding both the amount of tax owed and how long the owner has been delinquent. Most are handwritten, and many contain penciled notes. There is no final report with this series, or any real indication of this data's purpose or final use.
This project is dated 1929 in the original inventory, but correspondence extant in the files runs from 1928 through 1935. The basic thrust of this project, which seems to have been coordinated or overseen by Harriet Cushman, was to establish standards and certification for Montana poultry flocks in line with those used by the American Poultry Association. There is much information about certification standards, including some used in Washington State, but no final report.
This project appears to have been geared toward gathering information about farm management and operations. Saunderson and Gilman are listed as the main authorities for the project, which was conducted in 1929. There is earlier information present, including crop records for 1925 and 1926. Records vary from farm summaries (containing expenses and profits) to complete records that include farm labor sheets and inventories. In the latter cases, cards are also present containing information about the farmer, his family, and any laborers present on the property. There is no final report with this series, or any indication as to the nature of the project itself. The mixed correspondence files seem to deal mostly with letters to county extension officers and are filed by the addressee's last name.
This series contains much information from a number of M.H. Saunderson's projects in the late 1930s. Prominent among them are a 1937-1938 range sheep study, a cooperative grazing document, soil conservation reports, drafts of two undated papers ("Some Questions of Policy in the Use and Management of Public Lands in the Eleven Western States" and "Agricultural Conservation Program from the Viewpoint of the Northwest Livestock Producer"), and a Farm Account Book from Alfred Anderson covering the period from 1923-1930. There is no indication of the purpose of the Anderson book, and no final reports are present for the range sheep study or the cooperative grazing and soil conservation projects. The agricultural conservation materials seem to be mostly from the USDA. Conservation program information tailored for Pondera County is featured, along with some information for Yellowstone County. There is also a Work Progress Authority memo and a copy of a Montana soil conservation law (HB 298) from 1937. The range survey data seems to come from 1937, and includes some cooperative grazing agreements and information.
No final report for this study is contained in these records. The study seems to have been based on land sales conducted during June of 1957, although there are some earlier samples included in the voided surveys files. The study consisted of four types of interviews (Bidder, Buyer, Dealer, and Seller) conducted for land sales. The interview sheets are color-coded and further identified by county and a numeric code for each parcel of land sold. Most of the interviews were conducted by Paul Pilati, W. Rehberg, H. Walton, or Laurence (no initial was given for Laurence, which may be a first or last name). This series is organized by interview type, followed by county and then sale number. Not all the interviews are present in these records, as there are gaps between many of the numbers. A final file contains a copy of the "instructions for enumerators," a blank survey form, and notes covering three counties (Custer, Roosevelt, and Cascade) not included in the interviews. There is also an owners' survey for Golden Valley. Interview series marked with an asterisk are incomplete. The purpose of this study seems to have been to collect data regarding the price of land, reasons for buying and selling, and some occupational information about those involved.
No final report or contextual documentation is included with this series. It consists of a number of questionnaires developed to record farm information (including labor, crops and livestock raised, hiring plans and preferences, information about the farm families, and so on) from 1941 and into 1942. The interviews were conducted during the summer of 1942 on around 300 Montana farms in a number of counties. The forms are numbered (except those marked for discard), but there appears to be no method for the numbering process. Questions on the forms include number of laborers, hiring preferences of the farmer (based on gender, town/vs farm origin, age, and racial groupings), available housing, use of employment service, labor statistics for workers and family members, crops/livestock raised during the study's period, location of the farm and its acreage, and so on. Labor figures and "Crop War Units" and "LWU's" are totaled on the accepted forms in colored pencil, but the series gives no indication as to the meaning of these markings. A set of interviewer instructions, a blank and completed example form, and a number of rejected forms are also included. Forms are rejected based on either the farmer's not farming in 1941 or incomplete entries (most often in the labor sections). The numeric system of the accepted forms has been preserved in this series.
There is no final report or authority with this data, which seems to have been gathered during the 1920s and up to about 1933. R.R. Renne was involved in at least some aspects of the data gathering, as his name appears on scattered correspondence in some of the files. Records include: Information on mill levies and taxes paid on selected property in the counties studied; correspondence relating to tax information from those counties; tabulated data regarding railroad tax monies and how they were used in selected counties. The data was originally packaged in folders divided into regions, and this separation has been roughly preserved. The original designations were Central District (there appear to have been two - one containing Fergus, Lewis & Clark, Cascade, and Petroleum counties and another containing Golden Valley and Musselshell counties), South East District (Custer and Rosebud counties), North West District (Missoula and Flathead counties), South West District (Madison, Gallatin, and Beaverhead counties), North East District (Dawson, McCone, Sheridan, and Valley counties), South Central District (Carbon, Big Horn, Sweet Grass and Yellowstone counties), and North Central District (Hill, Teton, Chouteau, and, Blaine counties). The railroad tax information is limited to 1933 and focuses mainly on its use for education.
This series consists of cards recording farm foreclosure information for a number of Montana counties from about 1900 through 1936. The period covered seems to depend on the county being surveyed. Most of the cards contain notes, and some even show that they have been researched a second and third time. However, there is no indication in this series as to what this data was used for. It is possibly the original source data for the reports contained in Series 32, although the periods being studied do not match and there is no correspondence or other information to back up this assumption. There is also a discrepancy between the counties used in the Series 32 study and the counties with completed cards in this Series. In all, fourteen counties were studied, with a number of reclassifications being done. The final folders contain tabulated data on all bankruptcies and foreclosures of Montana farms between 1898 and 1937.
The Ike Irish essay is typewritten with extensive penciled corrections and editing marks, likely done by someone other than the author. The essay describes Kent relatives and their encounters with Irish, a description of Irish’s mining techniques, and a vivid retelling of a hand-to-hand fight with a black bear that Irish survived.
The papers pertain to Brown's farming activities including: crops planted and prices; dairy cattle photos and breeding records; diaries of daily activities and weather; Huntley Project Irrigation District maps; reminiscence of working on the U Cross Ranch near Buffalo, Wyoming in the 1890s. The collection is arranged in six series: Diaries, Correspondence, Maps and Diagrams, Photographs, Printed and Literary Materials, and Financial Documents.
Diaries written by Ed C. Brown, primarily covering daily activities and weather reports. A birth and death register of Brown's family, friends, and acquaintances is in Box 2, Folder 2.
Personal correspondence received or written by Ed Brown between 1958-1960. The correspondence is mainly with W.W. Magee, reminiscing of working at the U Cross Ranch near Buffalo, Wyoming during the 1890s. Photographs referred to in these letters are in Series 4, Photographs.
Sketches of Brown's field plots and maps for Huntley Project.
Photographs are of W.W. Magee and his travels, and Brown's dairy cows. Photographs are individually numbered, duplicates are given the save number. Photos vary in size.
Newspaper clippings, booklet, descriptions of pictures, and materials covering Huntley Project Irrigation District are topics in this series. Newspaper clippings include obituaries, advertisements, and other stories. The booklet known as the "Argument Settler" list facts on many topics. The hand written descriptions of pictures were done by Ed Brown. The pictures were donated to University of Wyoming Library and Archives by Brown in 1959.
Ledgers, account books, investments, county tax records, and other materials related to financial matters of Ed Brown. Materials related to Brown's livestock and farm operations are found here. The memo books in Box 3, Folders 6-8 contain daily living expenses, cost of trips the Brown's took, and farming ideas and notes. Farm lease contracts are in Box 3, Folder 13, and land tenant's production and yields are in Box 3, Folder 14.
The Sylvester Nemes Papers primarily contain research, notes, drafts and manuscripts of Nemes's books, both his published works on fly fishing, as well as two unpublished works of historical fiction. His research materials include typed pages and handwritten notes in spiral-bound notebooks, as well as galley proofs and artwork. The collection also contains a large amount of correspondence from readers and fans who expressed the admiration for Nemes's work, and submitted orders for his books and hand-tied flies. A small amount of biographical material is also included in the collection, and includes family correspondence, a brief biography, miscellaneous personal records, and his obituary. Nemes's business and professional records mostly consist of correspondence with publishers, book and fly orders and invoices, and other records related to the writing and publishing of his books. In the final series there are photographs, negatives, memorabilia, and several binders of slides taken by Nemes of flies, landscapes in the West and in England and Scotland, fish and rivers, and friends and family.
Nemes's biographical materials include a small assortment of personal items and descriptions of his life. They include a portrait of Nemes, family correspondence, a short biographical sketch written in the mid-1980s, and his obituary from the Bozeman Daily Chronicle. Miscellaneous personal records consist of an international driver's license, receipts, and loan paperwork from the 1990s.
Nemes's professional records document his publishing career and related business ventures. Records associated with his publications are most prominent and include wholesale book orders, royalty reports, receipts from travels to Europe, publisher correspondence with Stackpole Books and Chatham Press, book publicity materials, and articles written by and about Nemes. His business records also feature legal agreements, including an agreement to produce a Nemes-branded fishing rod in Japan.
Nemes's correspondence contains incoming and outgoing letters related to his publications. The bulk of the correspondence consists of letters to Nemes from his readers, including fan mail, book and fly orders, and questions seeking fishing advice. Some letter writers sent Nemes examples of their hand-crafted flies in addition to their letters. The flies are filed separately and can be found among his collected memorabilia. A small amount of outgoing correspondence contains copies of letters written by Nemes between 1973 and 2008 and relates to his publications and fly and book orders.
Nemes's book manuscripts, drafts, and book-specific research features pre-publication copies of his books on fly fishing and his non-fiction writings. This series contains drafts, manuscripts, galleys, artwork, notes, and collected articles for his books. Of greatest significance is an early draft (circa 1973) of his most famous book, The Soft-Hackled Fly.
[see box 32]
[see box 32]
Nemes's general research and notes consist of handwritten notes and collected articles related to his writings. Notes include research, drafts, and edits of Nemes's books and articles. They also include handwritten book order information, remarks on fly tying, reminders, and stray thoughts. Notes are contained on loose papers, in spiral notebooks, and on legal pads. Several small memo pads also contain dated entries regarding fishing trips and document Nemes's fishing location, weather, and insect hatch descriptions. A small collection of articles on entomology and the history of elementary schools is also included among these materials.
Nemes's photographs, slides and memorabilia features visual materials related to his life and career. Photographs include color prints of Nemes with family and friends, readers' photos sent to Nemes, and 3x5 negatives of fly tying. The series also includes binders of slides featuring images of flies, rivers, the English and Scottish countryside, and western landscapes. Nemes used slides as visual aids at speaking engagements and the slides likely relate to publicity events for his books and other public appearances. There is a small collection of flies (mostly sent to Nemes by readers), his Legend of the Headwaters award, and a framed photo with mounted flies from a Japanese fishing club.
The Yellowstone Lake tourist register contains the signatures of guests who stayed at the facility from June 18, 1904 through September 10, 1909. The information also includes the home town and state of the visitor. The first thirty-six pages of the ledger were used as a scrapbook by a previous owner and the removal of the pasted material has been uneven. However, most of the newspaper and magazine clippings fragments that remain do not entirely obscure the handwritten entries.
The Reed diary consists of brief daily notations of the wagon journey from Peoria, Illinois on April 14, 1864 and stops at Lawrence, Kansas on April 29, 1864. Reed does not mention any fellow travelers in the entries, describing rather the weather, road and camping conditions as he journeyed across southern Iowa and northwest Missouri. The route passed: Peoria and Galesburg, Illinois; Keosauqua, Bloomfield, and Centerville, Iowa; Eaglesville, Albany, St. Joseph, Missouri; Lawrence, Kansas. A handwritten transcription of the entries prepared by Burlingame accompanies the diary.
Personal materials; business correspondence and photo orders; operational papers from the Yellowstone, Saint Paul, Fargo studios and Haynes Palace Studio Car; operational papers from several stage companies. Personal information forms only a small part of the extant papers. The bulk of material is grouped around the business activities of Haynes' photography studios, especially customer order and supply correspondence, and the business records of the Monida and Yellowstone Stage Company and the Yellowstone-Western Stage Company. Small sections of material from the Yellowstone Park Stage Company and the Montana and Yellowstone Park Transfer Company are available, as well as a box of information on the short-lived Cody-Sylvan Pass Motor Company, the Park's first motorized transportation line.
Records from the various business activities of the firm F. Jay Haynes (including F. Jay Haynes and Brother) constitute about half the bulk of the collection. General business records including bills, invoices, and supplies orders are found here and are paralleled by invoice ledgers found in Collection 1501. The scope of Haynes business as a purveyor of photographs is represented only in a not-quite-statistical sample. Routine photography orders for the year roughly between October 1886 and November 1887 are the only reasonably complete files of this record type, but give a fair indication of the scope and volume of business. Researchers using the business correspondence should compare the invoices and bills found in other sections of the collection as well as in the bound books in Collection 1501. The activities of the Haynes Palace Studio Car are related in the narrative reports furnished to Haynes by his operators, and business activity through the mobile studio can be glimpsed in the "waybills" reporting the negatives taken during a given period. Other records for the car are in the Haynes papers at the Montana Historical Society.
Information from Haynes photographic concession activity in Yellowstone, primarily in the Mammoth studio, is found in the papers, though not as comprehensively as could be wished. Data in this section relates specifically to business; subsistence expenses will be found in the general business papers (except for Yellowstone Park Association bills, which are interfiled in this section). Sales accounts from the stands in the hotels and photo orders taken in the Park for later delivery are also included.
A small section of papers survive from the period of F. Jay Haynes' part-ownership in the Wylie Permanent Camping Company. Haynes had attempted to organize a lodging company similar to the permanent camps and was powerful enough that to keep him from doing so he was allowed to buy out one-third interest in the Wylie Company.
Perhaps the most colorful section of the papers relate to Haynes' most successful Yellowstone ventures, the transportation companies. He became half owner with George Wakefield of the Yellowstone Park Stage Company in 1885, moving tourists between Cinnabar and Mammoth in direct competition with the larger stage lines. Operating without a license the company was barred from the Park and folded. The Monida and Yellowstone Stage Company, organized in 1898 and incorporated in 1900, became the largest stage business in the Park partially due to its connection through the Park's west entrance to the Oregon Short Line Rail Road and consequently to the larger Union Pacific. Due to the loss of his concession over ticket pricing Haynes organized a parallel company under the name Yellowstone-Western Stage Company, recaptured the concession, and bought out the plant of the Monida and Yellowstone Stage Company. Significant topics covered in this section are the 1903 controversy with the Yellowstone Lake Boat Company, the 1912 stock suit and 1913 revocation of the Monida and Yellowstone Stage Company concession, the organization of the YW, and the dissolution of the YW and liquidation of its plant. The bound financial, passenger, and stock ledgers from the MY and YW are found in Collection 1502. Toward the end of the Yellowstone-Western Stage Company section of papers will be found a small collection of materials related to the Cody-Sylvan Pass Motor Company which operated only for the 1915 season transferring passengers between Cody, Wyoming, and Yellowstone Lake. The park's first motorized stage line, it served as the prototype for the 1916 reorganization of the transportation business.
A printed listing of individual folders in box 1 is located in the reading room of Special Collections.
A printed listing of individual folders in boxes 2-16 is located in the reading room of Special Collections.
A printed listing of individual folders in boxes 17-25 and flatfile is located in the reading room of Special Collections.
The William Merriam Cobleigh papers consist mainly on his correspondence with his parents and Esther Rose Cooley from 1894 to 1901. Topics include: experiences at Montana Agricultural College at Bozeman and the College of Montana at Deer Lodge; social life and customs in Bozeman during the turn of the century; courtship and marriage. Newspaper clippings, various programs from recitals he attended, photographs, and pamphlets have been retained with the letters. In addition to letters Cobleigh wrote is one letter written to his father. Also in the collection are two letters to his mother, one from a niece and one from Cobleigh's sister, Elma Gallager. Several letters written to Esther Rose Cooley from her friends are also in the papers. A few picture of friends and relatives from California and some place cards are also included. The collection is arranged by topically arranged series.
In his letters to his parents from 1891 to 1894, Cobleigh was working at the College of Montana in Deer Lodge, the Missoula Mercantile in Corvallis where his father had a farm, and the Anaconda Company in Anaconda. From 1894 to 1901 Cobleigh writes to his parents mainly from the Montana Agricultural College in Bozeman. These letters are more detailed than the letters to Esther Rose Cooley. In 1901 Cobleigh writes to his parents about his courtship and marriage honeymoon at Mt. Holyoak, Vermont in August 1901. Also included in this series is a letter written to Cobleigh in 1896 from J. Perry Miner and one to his father in 1898 from F. L. Ludden, a general merchandise retailer.
Letters from September 8-November 17, 1901; Letter to his mother in July 1929
After matriculating at Columbia University in 1901, Cobleigh became engaged to Esther Rose Cooley. This series are the letters he wrote to her during their engagement. The letters span from January 29 to July 29, 1901. They describe social life in Bozeman and the customs of the time.
Included in this series are letters Esther Rose Cooley received from friends. Most of the letters are from Burton J. Baldwin, a friend of hers from college. Also included his Esther's certificate from the Kindergarten Normal School.
Two letters are included in this series. One letter his from Elma Gallager, Julia Cobleigh's daughter written in 1929. The other letter is from one of Julia's nieces.
Included in this series are three papers from Columbia University written in 1899; manuscript by William M. Cobleigh comparing Columbia University and Montana Agricultural College, 1900; a Property Assessment list from 1904; papers from the Gallatin Laundry Company from 1920; and several calling cards.
Three photographs are included in this series. Few of the people are identified, but are believed to be friends and relatives from California.
This collection consists of originals and copies of transcriptions, a set of audio tapes; rough drafts of an autobiography; research notes; drafts of published and unpublished stories; royalty papers; legal agreements; correspondence with publishers, writers, friends and colleagues; color illustrations; pencil drawings; newspaper clippings; photographs; student papers and memorabilia. The collection has been arranged into 3 series. Series 1 contains materials related to an autobiography of Jessie Donaldson created by her and edited by Anne Banks. Included are: the audiotapes of Jessie (copied to CD) and the transcriptions with her margin notes and corrections; rough drafts by Jessie; a final draft by Jessie and Anne Banks' final edited version; an extensive set of correspondence Jessica had with Anne Banks and Leslie C. Drew, Director of the Museum of the Rockies; Anne Banks' correspondence with David Andrews (editor of the Piegan Storyteller, the newsletter of the James Willard Schultz Society), Harry James and others. Series 2 includes Jessie Donaldson's research and writings, papers, correspondence and memorabilia. It has extensive college anthropological research notes on Indians of North America from a variety of published sources, their characteristics and especially their religion with emphasis on the Blackfeet tribes [materials include a kinship list, traditional Blackfeet designs with color drawing by Paio-Taki "Flying Woman," a large collection of myth stories, Sun Dance charts and stories of her initiation into the Matokiks, The Women's Buffalo Society of the Blood Indians]; a preliminary typed plan and drafts for a series of primer books for children (with watercolor illustrations by Olga Ross Hannon); papers including play scripts or typescripts related to her production of "The Masque of the Absarokas," information and correspondence for the James Willard Schultz Indian Heritage Award, her Honorary Doctorate of Letters and congratulatory letters, her activities with the Spurs, three diaries of her activities in the 1950-1960s period and personal correspondence. Series 3 is Jessie Donaldson's papers related to the publication of James Willard Schultz stories including the posthumous books: "Blackfeet and Buffalo; Memoirs of Life among the Indian," edited by Keith C. Seele, a book derived from his stories: "Bear Chief's War Shirt," edited by Wilbur L. Betts and four books edited by Eugene Lee Silliman: three books of James Willard Schultz collected stories ("Many Strange Characters: Montana Frontier Tales," "Floating on the Missouri," "Why Gone Those Times? Blackfoot Tales") and one book of collected western stories ("We Seized Our Rifles: Recollections of the Montana Frontier"). The series includes correspondence, carbon copied and copy draft manuscripts, galley proofs, work papers and memorabilia of Eugene Lee Silliman's books; typescripts and photocopies of published and unpublished stories exchanged by Silliman and Betts; photocopied stories by Harry James about James Willard Schultz; assorted correspondence with numerous publishers including Houghton Mifflin, the Faucett Company, University of Oklahoma Press, Cavalier Magazine and others; royalties statements; publication agreements by James Willard Schultz and Jessie Donaldson including TV and film rights.
CD copies of audiotapes and original audiotapes; transcriptions with corrections and margin notes; a rough draft manuscript by Jessie Donaldson Schultz Graham (JDSG); an edited final version by Anne Banks and JDSG's note scraps about transcripts or manuscripts and assorted typed draft pages. Correspondence of JDSG, Anne Banks (includes correspondence with publishers exploring publishing edited version), Leslie C. Drew, other Museum staff and related mail. Audiotape CDs entries list partial subjects covered from audiotape label notes and the corresponding transcription pages. The series is organized by audio transcriptions, CD's of audio tapes, manuscripts, research notes and correspondence. (Original audiotapes are restricted) ***
(no tape made)
(CDs)
(pg 1-6)
(pg 6-14)
(Transcribed pg 14-29)
(pg 29-42)
(pg 42-56)
(pg 57-70)
(pg 70-76+++)
(pg 77-91)
(pg 91-98 including revised pages)
(pg 99-111)
(pg 112-124)
(pg 124-139)
(pg 139-152)
(pg 153-160)
(pg 161-174)
(pg 175-189)
(pg 189-204)
(pg 205-220)
(pg 221-239)
(pg 239-257)
(pg 257, 260, 262-275)
(pg 275-293)
(pg 293-309)
(pg 310-326)
(pg 326-343)
(pg 343-359)
(pg 360-378)
(X1: pg 1-5; X2: pg 1-5)
(pg 379-393)
(pg 393-409)
(pg 410-425)
(pg 425-440)
(pg 440-453)
(things changed) (pg 453-467)
(pg 467-478)
(pg 479-493)
(pg 493-508)
(pg 509-524)
(pg 524-546)
(pg 546-560)
(pg 560-581)
(numbers do not match tapes)
Handwritten and typed research notes and files; typed draft manuscripts; maps and lists; programs, brochures, and pamphlets; color illustrations; photographs; newspaper clippings, newsletters and magazine articles; diaries; citations, certificates and a diploma; photocopied and original personal and professional correspondence; essays and essay rules; book series materials; and assorted ephemera. The series is organized from general research materials to more specific topics, draft manuscripts and working papers, professional correspondence and then to personal correspondence and collected materials.
(loose)
(tools, etc.)
[color illustrations by Paio-Taki (Flying Woman)]
(author unknown, possibly JDSG)
Itemized cost lists for tipi painting [Count Bernadotte (1939)] and "Masque" production
(fan of James Willard Schultz from Ireland)
(proposal, arrangements, rules)
Included materials are correspondence, royalty statements, and copies of legal agreements for published works of James Willard Schultz; photocopied articles, carbon copy and photocopied draft manuscripts, galley proofs, work papers, correspondence, newspaper clippings and memorabilia of books edited by Eugene Lee Silliman; copies of manuscripts and published articles exchanged by Silliman and Wilbur Betts; correspondence of Jessie Donaldson Schultz Graham with publishers and editors regarding posthumously published James Willard Schultz books, TV and film agreements and correspondence. The series has been filed alphabetically by subject.
Architectural drawings of a building "to be built by Mrs. E. Broox Martin" at Beall Park, Bozeman. Building is presently known as Beall Park Arts Center.
The Beryl Stith papers consists of research and paste-up masters for her book Terry Does Exist and her family's personal and business papers. Included are: fragments of original correspondence from John W. Stith and his wife Cornelia which were mutilated by Beryl Stith when preparing the paste-up for her book; business communications pertaining to Stith's real estate, insurance, and hardware operations; Terry school board transactions, Justice of the Peace case documents; Custer County Commissioner correspondence; miscellaneous invoices, receipts, and business letters. Fifty original photographs of Stith family members, friends, and Terry, Montana, some of which were used in Stith's book, are also included.
Copy pasteup, research papers, and mutilated original documents used by Stith for the publication of Terry Does Exist. The book is divided into three sections; the establishment of the town of Terry and two sections dealing with the Stith family and their place in Terry's history. When assembling her book, Stith took original letters exchanged by her parents and cut them into pieces to use as facsimile illustrations for printing plates. The letters fragments in folder 6 were the result of this practice and are impossible to collate into proper order.
The Stith family papers consist of collected business files of John W. and Cornelia Stith's professional careers. Cornelia Stith was Postmistress and Sunday School Teacher in Terry for many years and collected listings of Sunday School books and documents dealing with the delivery of mail. John Stith was a respected business man and public servant during his time in Terry. His school clerk records consist of teacher and maintenance contracts, apportionments, and correspondence from 1883 to 1907. John's time as a Custer County commissioner are represented by constituent correspondence, petitions for road and bridge construction and improvements, commissioner journals, and contracts. Stith's Justice of the Peace (JP) files contain case files for minor civil actions brought before the Terry, Montana court regarding cost recovery suits, witness statements and judgments. One folder of JP papers includes bounty warrants for the killing of coyotes, bobcats, and wolves. Stith's business interests in Terry are represented by the balance of the files in this series. They include: real estate transaction papers; insurance sales and correspondence; shipping bills and invoices for wool buying operations; customer and client correspondence; merchandise orders for Stith's hardware store; bank statements and a selection of cancelled checks.
Photographs of the Stith family and friends, Terry residents, and Terry, Montana. Some of these photographs were used by Beryl Stith in Terry Does Exist. In those cases, the page number in parentheses following the photograph title indicates the location of the image in the book.
(pg 6)
(pg 11)
(pg 8)
(pg 9)
(pg 8)
(pg 8)
(pg 10)
(pg 9)
Lillian Holker, Tom Holker, Mabel Joubert, Lillian Miller, Maude Miller, Pauline Joubert, Oliver Ddrilling, Charles Hanson, George (Red) McDonald
(info on back)
(pg 7)
(pg 7)
(pg 9)
(pg 9)
The William H. Storrs diary (January 21, 1862-September 27, 1864) sporadically covers his activities preceding his 1862 enlistment through his 1864 march from Little Rock to Pocahontas, Arkansas. Many of the entries appear to have been written in retrospect, and two lengthy gaps are represented: from August 21, 1862 to July 31, 1863, and from December 18, 1863 to September 19, 1864. Important events discussed in the entries include detailed description of the battle of Shiloh, Tennessee, the advance on Corinth, Mississippi, and return to Memphis, Tennessee in the spring of 1862. The 1863 march from Helena, Arkansas to Little Rock and subsequent occupation of Little Rock are also described with some detail. Entries concern troop movements, weather, fellow staff officers of the 77th and camp conditions. Other Arkansas locations mentioned in the diary include DuVall's Bluff and Brownsville.
The Keyes photograph album contains snapshots taken by Keyes and perhaps a few of his friends during their hike through southwest Montana. The album contains images of the steamship North Land, Mackinac Island, the North Dakota Badlands, Bozeman, Bridger Canyon, Gallatin Canyon, Lone Peak, Virginia City, the Red Rock valley, Sawtell's Ranch at Henry's Lake, Upper Geyser Basin, and Lake Yellowstone. People pictured are Keyes and his companions, Edward C. Alderson, Jack Bean, and Felix G. White. Two photographs of Yellowstone bears are also included. Many of the photographs are captioned.
The diary contains entries created by Keyes simultaneously with the photographs he took in the album, starting on July 3, 1899 when he and the student party left on the train to Buffalo and ends with his entry of August 19, 1899. His notations are incredibly detailed, noting the scenery, the content of his meals, and even the time of day when certain described events occurred. Many of his fellow students are mentioned, and geographic details and wildlife sightings recorded. Particularly poignant are his entries from August 5, when he had his accident, through the end as he bravely faces the fact he will be unable to complete the journey with his fellow expedition members. In addition to the detailed diary entries, Keyes kept a table of distances covered by the expedition on each day, given in miles covered and with notations identifying camping spots. He also devotes several separate pages to trip expenses, various contact addresses, and even a few hand-drawn sketches of wildlife and camping sites.
The materials in this collection include: ranch account books of Joseph Muir's 1915-1927; ranch account books and papers of Nick Muir's 1933-1956; copies of photographs and negatives of the ranch operation near Harlowton, Montana, family members, and sheep. The photographs are either 3"x5" or 8"x10" and all are black and white. All the negatives are in Box 2, Folder 13.
This collection of published materials contains periodicals and newspapers (including clippings) by and about Wallace Stegner throughout his prolific writing career. Besides his large body of monographic works, he wrote fictional short stories; accounts based on his childhood in the west; articles on writing, conservation, western U.S. history, Mormons, the wilderness, and politics (primarily of the west and its future). The collection is organized into five series which, for the most part, conform to the arrangement of the sections in Colberg's published bibliography of Stegner. Series 1 contains Stegner articles from periodicals and newspapers. Series 2 is an assortment of short stories in periodicals. Series 3 consists of published interviews; articles about Stegner's body of work; book reviews by and about Stegner; miscellaneous materials containing lectures, addresses, reprints and quotes from his writings; articles by his son, Page and book announcements and collecting information. Series 4 contains the letters and postcards from Wallace Stegner to Nancy Colberg. Series 5 is a set of business correspondence between publishers, individuals, educational institutions and others and Wallace Stegner.
This partial physical bibliography of articles by Wallace Stegner which appeared in periodicals and newspapers between July 1944 and winter of 1993 has been arranged chronologically and conforms to the arrangement in Section C of Nancy Colberg's Wallace Stegner: A Descriptive Bibliography.
Atlantic, 174 (July 1944), p. 45-52.
Pacific Spectator, 1 (Spring 1947), p. 184-87.
Atlantic, 181 (January 1948), p. 56-64.
Pacific Spectator, 2 (Autumn 1948), p. 399-411.
Western Review, 14 (Spring 1950), p. 165-179.
Western Humanities Review, 7 (Spring 1953), p. 105-110.
Sports Illustrated, 3 (June 13, 1955), p. 28-29, 44-46.
American Heritage, 6 (October 1955), p. 22-27.
Western Review, 20 (Winter 1956), p. 87-89.
Holiday, 20 (July 1956), p. 34-43, 122-125
American Heritage, 8 (June 1957), p. 14-19, 108-111
Atlantic, 202 (July 1958), p. 50-54
Holiday, 24 (August 1958), p. 64-69, 127
Atlantic, 204 (October 1959), p. 78-80
Atlantic, 204 (November 1959), p. 88-91
Horizon, 5 (September 1962), p. 94-95
American West, 2 (Winter 1965), p. 23
Atlantic, 215 (March 1965), p. 119
American West, 2 (Fall 1965), p. 6-13. Note: Speech delivered at University of Utah June, 1965. Reprinted as a keepsake from the American West for the Helena meeting of the Western History Association, October, 1965.
American West, 4 (February 1967), p. 4-5
American West Review, 1 (March 15, 1967), p. 12
American West, 4 (May 1967), p. 61-62, 76-79. Note: Reprinted as introduction to Great Western Short Stories (J. Golden Taylor - 1967)
American West Review, 1 (June 15, 1967), p. 14
American West Review, 1 (September 15, 1967), p. 14
American West Review, 1 (December 1, 1967), p. 12
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 19 (January-February 1968), p. 11-22. (Chapter 1)
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 19 (March-April 1968), p. 15-21
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 19 (May-June 1968), p. 8-15
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 19 (July-August 1968), p. 8-15
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 19 (November-December 1968), p. 4-11
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 20 (January-February 1969), p. 12-21
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 20 (March-April 1969), p. 10-21
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 20 (May-June 1969), 22-31
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 20 (July-August 1969), p. 20- 27
American Heritage, 21 (December 1969), p.12-15
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 21 (January-February 1970), p. 17-21
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 21 (March-April 1970), p. 9-17
(DISCOVERY!) Aramco World Magazine, 21 (July-August 1970), p. 8-21
Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought, 6 (Autumn-Winter 1971), p. 39-47
Westways, 64 (September 1972), p. 14-19, 58
American Heritage, 24 (August 1973), p. 28-32, 92-96
Travel and Leisure, 3 (Autumn 1973), p. 41-43
Stanford Magazine, 1 (Fall/Winter 1973), p. 14-19. Note: Appears as "Variations on a Theme of Discontent," which Stegner delivered as the commencement address at Utah State University June 3, 1972. Also published as a separate pamphlet by Utah State University Press, 1972.
American West, 10 (November 1973), p. 20-27
American West, 11 (January 1974), p. 28-30
The Imprint (of the Stanford Libraries), 1 (April 1975), p. 16-19
Middlebury College News Letter, 49 (Summer 1975), p. 30-31
Esquire, 84 (September 1975), p. 79-83, 154
South Dakota Review, 13 (Autumn 1975), p. 49-52
Atlantic, 241 (April 1978), p. 44-64, 71-91. (By Wallace and Page Stegner)
American Heritage, 30 (February 1979), p. 60-62
U.S. News, 89 (September 22, 1980), p. 53-54
Living Wilderness, 44 (December 1980), p. 12-17
American Heritage, 32 (February/March 1981), p. 4-13
American Heritage, 32 (June/July 1981), p. 81-89
Living Wilderness, 45 (Summer 1981), p. 4-13
Plateau, 53 (Fall 1981), p. 2-3
Country Journal, 8 (September 1981), p. 74-86
Sierra, 66 (September/October 1981), p. 8-17
Rocky Mountain Magazine, 3 (November 1981), p. 56-59
Soundings, 13 (February 1982), p. 5-19
American West, 19 (March/April 1982), p. 64, 67-69
American Heritage, 33 (August/September 1982), p. 21
Wilderness, 46 (Spring 1983), p. 4-13
Stanford Magazine, 11 (Spring 1983), p. 50-55
Arizona Highways, 60 (January 1984), p. 11-13
American West, 21 (January/February 1984), p. 48-52
Wilderness, 48 (Summer 1984), p. 2-3
California, (August 1984), p. 74-75, 83, 123
California Living, (October 7, 1984), p. 24-25. (An October 18, 1984 letter to Nancy from Wally tucked inside.)
Nebraska Humanist, 8 (Spring 1985), p. 45-54
Wilderness, 48 (Spring 1985), p.15-21
San Francisco Chronicle (Great Escapes), (March 24, 1985), p. 28-30
Western American Literature, 20 (August 1985), p. 151-164
American Heritage, 36 (August/September 1985), p. 62-69
Reader's Digest, 127 (October 1985), p. 130-134
Wilderness, 51 (Fall 1987), p. 14-18
American Heritage, 38 (December 1987), p. 34-41
Sierra, 74 (September/October 1989), p. 42-47
Smithsonian, 21 (April 1990), p. 34-43
Life, 14 (February 1991), p. 87
Current Books Magazine, 1 (Winter 1993), p. 78-80, 95
Wallace Stegner wrote many short stories which were published in magazines and newspapers and won many awards. This series has seven of these publications arranged chronologically and conforms to the arrangement in Section D of Nancy Colberg's Wallace Stegner: A Descriptive Bibliography.
Atlantic, 169 (June 1942), p. 745-752. (Second Prize 0. Henry Awards, 1942. Many textbook appearances.)
Atlantic, 171 (April 1943), p. 123, 127. Abridged version of "My Pet Achilles, the Amusing Turtle," "Balance His, Swing Yours," Rocky Mountain Review, 10 (Autumn 1945), p. 32-38.
Atlantic, 176 (October 1945), p. 82-84."Genesis," Contact, 2 (April 1959), p. 85-167. (A Novella)
Scholastic Scope, 33 (October 12, 1984), p. 1-10. Simplified stories from The Women on the Wall: ("Chip Off the Old Block," "The Foreigner," and "In the Twilight.")
Sequoia, 31 (Centennial Issue 1987), p. 16-25
This series contains a miscellaneous assortment of published items by and about Wallace Stegner. They have been arranged by category and therein chronologically. Included are: book reviews by Stegner; interviews of Stegner; addresses, pamphlet articles, lectures and quotes by Wallace Stegner; periodical and newspaper articles on Stegner's works; reviews of Stegner books; materials based on Stegner's work; and obituaries and tributes to Stegner. Also included are two articles by Page Stegner (his son) and a collection of book promotion and collecting materials. Some but not all of these materials were listed in Section E and the Appendix of in Nancy Colberg's Wallace Stegner: A Descriptive Bibliography.
Atlantic 170 (December 1942), p. 130
Los Angeles Times, Book Review Section (January 1, 1984), p. 1
The Amicus Journal, 5 (Spring 1984), p. 45-47
New York Times Book Review, (February 24, 1985), p.1, 33
Northwestern University on the Air, (December 19, 1942), radio conversation over the Columbia Broadcasting System
South Dakota Review, 9 (Spring 1971), p. 45-57. (This issue also has a critique of Stegner and "Big Rock Candy Mountain" by Lois Phillips Hudson on p. 3-13)
Southwest Review, (Summer 1976), p. 252-267
Massachusetts Review, 20 (Spring 1979), p. 127-139
Sunstone, A Unique Mormon Magazine, 5 (January-February 1980), p. 7-11
(?) Review, (January 4, 1981), p.10-11
San Francisco Magazine, (July 1981), cover, p. 38-43
Standard Oil of California Western Scenes, 1954. More than 1,000,000 free copies were distributed to motorists and visitors in the West, May through September 1955.
a keepsake from The American West for the Helena meeting of the Western History Association
program with full text of dedicatory address presented by Stegner at the Library Dedication Exercises, University of Utah
pamphlet published by Utah State University Press, Logan, Utah, containing the full text of the commencement address presented
program with full text of dedicatory address presented by Stegner at the Library Dedication Exercises, University of Arizona
full text of Tanner Lectures on Human Values delivered at University of Utah
remarks at the Annual Meeting of the Trust for Public Land
by Dream Garden Press. February - Stegner quotations
by Dream Garden Press. December - Stegner
by Dream Garden Press. November - Stegner
(2 copies) reprinted especially for his 80th birthday, February 19, 1989 (accompanied by invitation to celebration and a letter to Nancy Colberg from Sylvia A.)
ed. By Merrill Lewis and L. L. Lee, (circa 1977), p. 135-143
Western American Literature, 18 (August 1983), p. 133-142
entire issue: South Dakota Review, 23 (Winter 1985). (Includes a letter to Nancy Colberg inside.)
California, (June 1985), p. 119
photocopy of article by T. H. Watkins in Audubon, (September 1987), p. 88-103
Writers' Forum, 15 (Fall 1989), p. 1-20
Western American Literature, 25 (May 1990), p. 15-25
Western American Literature, 25 (May 1990), p. 27-33
Western Historical Quarterly, 22 (May 1991), p. 137-141
New York Times Magazine, (December 27, 1981, sect. 6), p. 18-22, 40-43
Los Altos Town Crier, (February 8, 1989), front page, p. 6, 16
Denver Post, (September 3, 1991), p. 7B
Washington Post, (February 12, 1992), 3 pages
Denver Post, (April 5, 1992), p. 3-I
San Francisco Chronicle, This World, (May 24, 1992), front page, p. 11-13
Empire, Magazine of the West, (February 2, 1997), p. 12. Within article "The Mystery of Everett Ruess."
Western Historical Quarterly, 5 (July 1974), p. 361-362
Christian Science Monitor, (March 17, 1982), p. 17
The Bloomsbury Review, 7 (November/December 1987), p. 11
Western American Literature, 26 (August 1991), p. 149-150
brochure for a symposium of the Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters of May 3-5, 1996
13 (July/August 1993), cover, p. 8-9
New York Times Book Review, (November 10, 1996), p. 69
(Autumn 1993), 9 essays, p. 52-76
18 (May/June 1993), p. 35-36
(September 1993), p. 64-68, 137-139
in California, December 1985 and National Parks, January-February 1990
Western American Literature, 9 (February 1984), p. 332 (Stegner listings).
brochure for book with quote from the foreword written by Stegner
1986, new titles by University of Utah Press with Stegner on back page
Firsts: Collecting First Editions, (May 1995), p. 30-37
Trade Show (undated)
(Book store owned by Nancy Colberg and her husband)
A collection of photocopied business correspondence related to specific publications of Wallace Stegner. They are arranged alphabetically by title. Included are letters from The Brandt and Brandt literary agency; publishing firms: Duell, Sloan and Pearce, Inc.; McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.; Curtis Brown Ltd.; Meredith Press; Look Magazine; Houghton Mifflin Company; Citadel Press; Atlantic Monthly Press; Viking Press, Inc.; Horizon; Hammond, Hammond and Company Ltd.; and ancillary letters from individuals, educational institutions and law firms pertaining to these titles.
This collection serves as the administrative record of the Greater Yellowstone Coalition. While it does contain some administrative records, contents of the collection primarily consist of planning materials related to the organization's annual meeting, press clippings topically related to the group's environmental advocacy work, and some miscellaneous video recordings created by GYC for educational and promotional purposes. Topics in the collection include: the reintroduction of wolves to Yellowstone, protection of Grizzly bears, designating protected wilderness areas in the GYE against mining and other developments. It also includes a web archive.
This series contains items pertaining to the administration of GYC, such as annual reports generated by the organization, mailings about projects, and press releases. It also contains congressional testimonies related to the issues worked on by the organization such as wildlife conservation.
This series is focused on the annual meetings held by GYC, and is split into two sub-series. Subseries 1 contains the planning materials for the meetings, and sub-series 2 contains audio recordings of the meetings, mainly in the form of audio cassettes, along with some CDs and DVDs.
Recordings of the annual meetings, the majority of which are in the form of audio cassettes, though in 2001 they start to appear on CDs and DVDS. Some tapes are missing in some sequences and there are also no tapes for the years 1987-1988 and 1996. Each tape has information about the date and description of its contents on it written on the container, although the level of detail varies.
Tape #1-3: Scientific Conference-Defining a Healthy Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem Panel. Tape #4: Grizzly Bear Panel
Contains a large number of newspaper clippings about subjects the Coalition focused on and tracked, such as grizzly bear and wolves in Yellowstone Park, ranching, mining. It also contains clippings that mention the GYC.
This series contains content produced by and about the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, including TV segments on issues the GYC worked on such as the New World Mine.
Contains reports and publications related to environmental concerns/developments in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. Also includes a mostly complete run of the GYC's quarterly newsletter.
Includes 25th anniversary poster print, signed for MSU by artist Jenny Lowe. Three maps of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem.
Archive of the GYC website
Primarily research files, the Burlingame papers reflect his lifelong interests in the history of Montana and the American West. The files have been arranged in 14 series based on subject or format. Subjects particularly heavily represented are: the history of Bozeman and Gallatin County, Montana and associated individuals; the history of Montana State University and associated individuals; the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ); Captain Gustavus C. Doane, Second U.S. Cavalry; Montana Native Americans. Series based on format are clippings, photographs, microfilm, maps, and audiotapes, all of which contain material represented in the subject series. There is also a small group of personal papers containing familial correspondence and genealogical information on the Burlingame family. Original documents created or collected by the William W. Alderson family, Gustavus C. Doane, and Harriette Cushman are also part of the Burlingame papers.
Original and photocopied correspondence, research notes, literary manuscripts, photographs, microfilm, and audiotapes created or collected by Merrill Burlingame were originally maintained by him in several four-drawer filing cabinets during the lengthy course of his career. The subject headings Burlingame assigned to the various folders were not consistent, and much repetition in these headings occurred over the years as he added to his collection. This duplication, along with Burlingame's practice of producing multiple carbon copies of his letters and notes, resulted in a great deal of redundancy in his filing system. The present arrangement represents a compromise between preserving Burlingame's original arrangement and efficiency in retrieval for researchers. Researchers should be cautioned, however, of the need to check the inventories of more than one series for pertinent material due to the difficulty in properly classifying the folder subject headings within any particular group. An asterisk (*) following a folder title indicates that material (either photographs or oversize documents) has been removed for storage elsewhere in the collection.
Notes, letters, printed materials, photocopied and original documents pertaining to a wide variety of historical personages, mostly connected with the development of Montana. In addition to the research notes that Burlingame created, some files contain actual manuscript materials created or collected by the biographical subject. While some of the subjects represented in this series figured prominently in the development of Gallatin County, most substantial biographical files of Gallatin County pioneers have been placed in series 2. There are also research files of a biographical nature in series 3, Montana and the Pioneer West. The materials in this series have been arranged alphabetically by the name of the biographical subject.
Notes, correspondence, photocopies, and original documents pertaining to the history of Gallatin County, Montana and the city of Bozeman, Montana. The topically labeled folders cover a wide variety of people, places, and events associated with Gallatin County history. Original documents created or collected by the W. W. Alderson family are included with this series as are files of biographical information on many prominent local personalities. Again, other biographical files of prominent Montanans can be found in series 1, Biographical files and series 3, Montana and the Frontier West. Research materials pertaining to Montana State College (Montana State University) in Bozeman have been placed in series 7. Much of the material dealing with the Christian Church in this series pertains to Burlingame's historical research on the Bozeman congregation and original copies of the Bozeman church's newspaper. For other Christian Church materials of a personal nature see series 8 and 10.
Notes, correspondence, photocopies, and original documents pertaining to the history of Montana and the pioneer west. These topically arranged folders cover a wide variety of material that documents Burlingame's research interests in Montana's past beyond Gallatin County and Bozeman. Original documents created or collected by Captain Gustavus C. Doane and his wife, Mary Hunter Doane, are included in this series, along with drafts of an unpublished manuscript biography of Doane written by Burlingame in the late 1930s and early 1940s. Some material on Montana Native Americans is included in this series, usually in the context of the Indian Wars and the frontier military. More complete research in this area is represented in series 6, Indians.
Letters written to or by Merrill Burlingame on a wide variety of research topics and matters of personal interest. Unlike correspondence found in the other series, these letters were maintained by Burlingame as a separate file regardless of their subject content. As a result much of the information contained within the letters pertains to subject files listed elsewhere. Most files are quite scant, containing few reference queries or brief replies from Burlingame. An important exception are the letters of W. J. "Duke" Ellington, an employee of the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs and administrator at the Rocky Boy reservation in the 1940s. The folders have been alphabetically arranged by the title Burlingame assigned them.
Primarily research notes and summary forms documenting a comprehensive list of Montana place names created or collected by Burlingame. Material explaining the origin of the particular name is included in some files along with pertinent correspondence from interested individuals.
Notes, correspondence, photocopies and original documents pertaining to Native American tribes. Montana groups predominate, but some of the files are of a general nature. Some of the files were created while Burlingame conducted research for court cases involving the Crow, Salish, Kutenai, Blackfeet and Gros Ventre tribes during the 1950s and early 1960s.
Notes, correspondence, photocopies, and original documents pertaining to the history of MSU and selected administrators, faculty, and staff. Much of this material was gathered by Burlingame while preparing his book, History of Montana State University (1961) and The Montana Cooperative Extension Service: a History, 1893-1974 (1984). Classroom lecture notes and syllabi for courses taught by Burlingame are also included. Original manuscripts created or collected by Harriett Cushman have been placed in this series as well.
Notes, correspondence, photocopies and original documents pertaining to various organizations of which Burlingame was a member or was interested in as a research topic. Most organizations are Montana related and include the Christian Church, the Montana Historical Society, the Masonic fraternity, and the Museum of the Rockies.
Newspaper clippings gathered by Burlingame pertaining to a wide variety of subjects represented in other series. These clippings are stored separately due to preservation considerations.
Primarily materials created or collected by Burlingame dealing with his personal life, finances, family genealogy, religious topics, awards and commissions, and memorabilia. This series includes speeches that Burlingame gave to community groups on historical and other topics. One file on Ray Burlingame has been closed to research until 2070 by request of the donor.
Original and copy photographs taken or collected by Burlingame on a wide variety of subjects represented in other series. Topics include: Merrill Burlingame and the Burlingame family; Montana biographical subjects; Montana communities; Bozeman and Gallatin County; the Bozeman Christian Church; Indians and related archaeology; Gustavus C. Doane; Harriette Cushman; and Montana views. The photographs have been arranged topically and have been sequentially numbered. Available negatives have been placed in folder.
Printed and manuscript maps collected or created by Burlingame in association with his research interests. The maps have been organized according to the issuing agency and are either exclusively Montana or the American West. Some of the manuscript maps were created for Burlingame's book The Montana Frontier. Box 72 also contains oversize materials removed from previous series.
Microfilmed primary source materials collected by Burlingame from various institutions in the United States and Canada pertaining to a wide variety of historical subjects and persons. Institutions from which the microfilm was ordered includes Harvard, Yale, New York Public Library, Missouri Historical Society, and the Manitoba Archives. Permission to use any of this material must be granted by the institutions holding the original documents. Information in brackets has been taken from the order form Burlingame filled out for some institutions and may refer to that institution's control number of the documents that were duplicated. Film in boxes 101-134 appear to be "home made" by Burlingame himself from original documents whose origin cannot be determined.
Recordings made or collected by Merrill Burlingame on a wide variety of research topics. Among the interviewees are Malcolm Story and Harriette Cushman, along with Burlingame himself. Tapes 1 through 20 are on audiocassette. Tapes 21-30 are audiotape reels.
The Hazel Christiansen papers consist of typed transcriptions or photocopies of correspondence, notes, and manuscripts dealing with the history of Hardin and Big Horn County, Montana. Letters contained in this collection deal with requests by Christiansen for information and reminiscences of Big Horn County settlers and the Old Mormon Trail, establishment of services in the county, and a former residents reunion. Christiansen's local history research focused on Hardin and Big Horn County, along with Crow Indians, forts, battles, churches, libraries, schools, and local activities.
(photocopies)
The Hodson papers consist primarily of daybooks and ledgers for the operations of Hodson's Mill and general store. Also included is a time book for payment of his employees from June of 1887 to March 1890. One folder of miscellaneous business papers includes a receipt for membership in the knights of Pythias, a liquor sales ad, a doorplate from William and Hoyt, and bills to some customers. The ledgers include several important clients such as Lester S. Wilson, the Chisolm Brothers, Rocky Fork and Cooke Railroad Company, Valley Ranch, and several other important people and businesses in the Gallatin Valley.
The Datus C. Proper papers consist of journals, correspondence, family history documents, literary manuscript drafts, galley proofs, research notes, publisher correspondence, photographs and other memorabilia which document Proper's life as a student, United States Foreign Service officer, and outdoor writer. His family history documents feature materials pertaining to Proper's extended family ancestors, including notes and clippings about Ida Sedgwick Proper, and the Civil War diary of Datus DeWitt Proper, corporal, 19th Iowa Volunteer Infantry. Datus Proper's journals document his early interest in fly fishing and hunting, containing both diary-like entries and miscellaneous notes that he later used in his published writings. The manuscript drafts encompass many, but not all, of Proper's articles for magazines like Field and Stream, and his four full length books. A research vertical file of clippings and miscellaneous notes maintained by Proper for reference purposes has also been preserved within this collection, along with a small collection of photographs, some of which were used to illustrate Proper's published articles. The subjects of Proper's writings encompass the full spectrum of fly fishing for trout, from stream side entomology to the ethics of catch and release angling. Hunting, particularly pheasant hunting and the training of dogs for the sport, is another subject heavily represented. Proper also wrote on Portugal, a country in which he had served during his career with the State Department, and in addition to his writings he saved some letters and documents written in Portuguese. Correspondents found in this collection include Vince Marinaro, Nick Lyons, Paul Schullery, and other prominent fly fishing and hunting writers. Oversize materials include topographical maps marked with locations of Proper's hunting and fishing trips, certificates and awards, and tracings of fish that Proper caught and measured.
Proper's journals document his hunting and fishing experiences and feature entries related to his article and book ideas. Proper's earliest fishing journal dates from 1951 and documents trout fishing while a student in New Hampshire. The bulk of his journals date from Proper's active writing career between 1965 and 2003, and detail his experiences fishing and hunting in Brazil, Portugal, Ireland, Montana, and elsewhere in the United States. The inclusive dates for each journal are approximate, and many diaries have laid-in notes placed by Proper in reference to his magazine article compositions.
Proper's correspondence files feature incoming and outgoing letters with publishers, readers, reviewers, family, friends, and other sportsmen. The bulk of the correspondence relates to Proper's writing career and includes feedback from readers and editors, hunting and fishing tips exchanged with friends and colleagues, and information requests from Proper to other writers and sportsmen. Proper maintained these files during his lifetime, and created generic alphabetical groupings based on correspondent name or created individual files for more frequent correspondents.
Proper's family papers document his personal life and family history. They include several personal items from his childhood including a baby book, school ephemera from Exeter Academy, student essays, and report cards. They also include a small amount of family correspondence and records documenting his career as a Foreign Service officer at the State Department. Records documenting his family history include genealogical records and collected items and biographies of Proper's distant relatives Datus Dewitt Proper (1844-1922), Ida Sedgwick Proper (1876-1957), and Datus Edwin Proper (1896-1965). Among these collected items is a Civil War diary written by Datus Dewitt Proper between 1864 and 1865, documenting his service in Louisiana, Alabama, and Florida.
Proper's magazine articles include manuscript drafts, galley proofs, notes, publisher correspondence, research letters, and a partial physical bibliography of Proper's magazine publications. Proper's drafts touch on a wide range of topics including fishing, fly tying, dogs, hunting, game birds, cooking wild game, wilderness, and life in the outdoors.
Proper's book publication files document the production of his four published books: What the Trout Said (1982; rev. ed. 1989); Pheasants of the Mind (1990; rev. ed. 1994); The Last Old Place: A Search Through Portugal (1992); and Running Waters (2001). Each draft combined portions of previously published essays with new original compositions. These files contain manuscript drafts, publisher correspondence, published book reviews, reader's letters, and notes pertaining to each book.
Proper's unfinished book manuscript features chapter drafts from a book he began working on during the end of his life titled variously as "The Home Place" or simply "Home." The book draws from Proper's previously published articles and attempts to examine his personal relationship with nature and how his chosen lifestyle had been affected by the land and the elements. The manuscript is organized into twelve chapters named after the months of the year and address broader themes such as home building in an environmentally sensitive area, hunting, fishing, and mankind's ever-changing relationship with nature. Proper intended to use many of his earlier magazine articles as a basis for each chapter and named the chapter title drafts the months of the year. He annotated the composition with comments about where to cut certain passages, add other passages, and consider other chapters where the composition might be better placed. Throughout his writing and editing process, Proper solicited feedback from his agent, Knox Burger, and other readers, and included their suggestions in with his drafts. As a result, there is a great deal of repetition between the contents of this incomplete manuscript and Proper's published articles.
Proper's subject vertical files feature topical files maintained by Proper in support of research for his publications. The files relate to topics of interest to Proper including fly fishing, hunting, streams and rivers, dogs, guns, and wild game. Although most files contain little more than printed materials, occasionally Proper would place letters or notes he felt relevant to the folder's title.
Proper's memorial service materials include a small set of documents from his funeral and letters of condolence to his widow. They feature obituaries, testimonials, and a recording of his funeral service.
Proper's photographs feature sets of 35mm slides and prints he selected for use in his publications. Although most were never featured in his published works, the images relate to topics addressed in Proper's books and articles including fly tying, trout stream fishing, and hunting dogs. Several sets of prints also document his travels in Portugal, which he detailed in his 1993 book, The Last Old Place: A Search Through Portugal. A very small set of photos include photos of Proper during his childhood and portraits of him as an adult.
The Willson and Rich records consist of three day books and one ledger which document the firm's conception in Canton, New York through the relocation of the enterprise to Bozeman in 1866 and its operation up to 1871. Information in the records includes: sales transactions along the overland journey to Montana; expenses and sales during the first five years of the business once it was established in Bozeman; documentation of the purchases of many individuals prominent in the early history of Bozeman.
The J.G. Link and Company Records consist of photographic images of various building projects, Elmer F. Link’s personal diaries, routine office files and project files. The photographs are either images of the building themselves or of drawings. The diaries are day records of Elmer F. Link. The office files document the day to day operation of the firm, mostly for its Billings office. The project files are records specifically related to the buildings the firm was commissioned to design and construct. The materials have been arranged in four series.
Primarily photographs of buildings constructed or designed by the J.G. Link and Company Firm. Aerial photographs of named communities and building sites are also included. The photographs have been alphabetically arranged and sequentially numbered. The information in the brackets following the photograph titles represent the collection number and drawing set number that has been previously assigned to architectural drawings by the Special Collections staff of the named building project.
[863; 249]
[863; 259]
[2040; 361]
[2220; 321]
[2219; 041]
[2219; 014]
[2220; 370]
[2086; 243]
[863; 253]
[2219; 042]
[2219; 012]
[863; 255]
[863; 268]
[864; 262]
[2219; 037]
[2219; 037]
[2060; 020]
[863; 182]
[2060; 023]
[863; 079]
[2060; 025]
[2219; 024]
[2219; 024]
[1344; 171]
[1344; 197]
[2219; 001]
[1344; 015]
[1344; 015]
[2219; 009]
[2220; 020]
[863; 284]
[1344; 057]
[2219; 029]
[2219; 033]
[1344; 044]
[863; 035]
[1344; 023]
[863; 197]
[863; 066]
[2040; 046]
[2040; 335]
[2220; 090]
[863; 068]
[1344; 118]
[2219; 040]
[2220; 235]
[863; 174]
[2086; 389]
[2220; 250]
[863; 083]
[1344; 016]
[2219; 031]
[2220; 332]
[863; 279]
[1344; 162]
[863; 212]
[2040; 045]
[863; 109]
[863; 265]
[863; 008A]
[1344; 005]
[863; 136]
[1344; 127]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 175]
[2219; 025]
[2219; 011]
[863; 180]
[2040; 149]
[2219; 021]
[2220; 088]
Personal and appointment diaries kept by Elmer F. Link while working in the Billings, Montana office of the J.G. Link and Company In these Journals, Link records the hours he worked on specific projects; the amount of time spent in the office; any traveling he had done; the amount of money spent on these travels as well as the amount of time; phone calls he took that day and with whom those phone calls were with. Along with this, Elmer discusses his personal well-being as well as his personal life. He writes about the weather, parties, and other social events. The diaries have been chronologically arranged by year.
Routine records pertaining primarily to the operation of the Billings office of the J.G. Link and Company firm. Information includes personnel rosters, financial data, application files, and other documents.
– etc.
– Correspondence and Notes
– Leowbridge
Office correspondence, financial data, and other records specifically related to named building projects undertaken by the firm. The information in the brackets following the photograph titles represent the collection number and drawing set number that has been previously assigned to architectural drawings accessioned previously by the Special Collections staff of the named building project. The files have been alphabetically arranged.
[1344; 080]
[1344; 128]
[1344; 128]
[1344; 020]
[1344; 071]
[863; 226]
[863; 259]
[2220; 320]
[2220; 320]
[2220; 320]
[2220; 320]
[2220; 320]
[863; 182]
[1344; 176]
[1344; 136]
[1344; 136]
[1344; 170]
[863; 208]
[1344; 170]
[863; 194]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 083]
[2220; 370]
[2220; 079 and 081]
[2220; 380]
[2220; 018] and [1344; 163]
[2220; 018] and [1344; 163]
[2220; 133]
[2220; 147 and 149]
[2220; 147 and 149]
[2220; 147 and 149]
[2220; 147 and 149]
[1344; 001]
[1344; 076]
[863; 052]
[2220; 103]
[2220; 103]
[2220; 225, 226, and 227]
[1344; 149]
[2086; 038]
[2040; 036]
[2040; 011]
[2219; 031]
[2219; 031]
[2219; 031]
[2220; 189]
[2220; 311]
[1344; 078]
[2219; 015]
[863; 087]
[1344; 018]
[1344; 018]
[1344; 033]
[2220; 020, 068 and 058]
[2220; 020, 068 and 058]
[2220; 020, 068 and 058]
[2220; 020, 068 and 058]
[2220; 095]
[2220; 095]
[2220; 095]
[2220; 085]
[2220; 085]
[2220; 085]
[2220; 085]
[2220; 085]
[2220; 085]
[2220; 020, 068 and 058]
[2220; 020, 068 and 058]
[2220; 020, 068 and 058]
[2220; 020, 068 and 058]
[1344; 090]
[1344; 171]
[1344; 171]
[1344; 171]
[2220; 207]
[1344; 171]
[2220; 182]
[1344; 016]
[2220; 375]
[2040; 088]
[1344; 196]
[2040; 088]
[1344; 147]
[1344; 025]
[1344; 025]
[1344; 112]
[1344; 134]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[2220; 200]
[863; 114]
[1344; 087]
[1344; 044]
[1344; 057]
[1344; 057]
[1344; 057]
[863; 064]
[1344; 023]
[1344; 023]
[1344; 102]
[2220; 206]
[2220; 206]
[1344; 095]
[1344; 122]
[1344; 122]
[2220; 355]
[863; 059]
[1344; 045]
[2220; 090]
[2220; 090]
[2220; 232]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 004, 060, and 077]
[2220; 235]
[2220; 235]
[2220; 175]
[2220; 236]
[863; 160]
[863; 113]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[2220; 240, 240b, 248, and 248b]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[1344; 175]
[863; 069]
[1344; 112]
[2220; 346]
[1344; 075]
[1344; 190]
[1344; 061]
[863; 303]
[863; 303]
[863; 303]
[863; 303]
[863; 303]
[863; 303]
[2220; 254]
[863; 056]
[2220; 282]
[2220; 176]
[1344; 194]
[1344; 194]
[1344; 016]
[863; 022, 046, 047, 049, 105, 106, 108, 203]
[863; 022, 046, 047, 049, 105, 106, 108, 203]
[1344; 167]
[1344; 107]
[2220; 334]
[1344; 013]
[2220; 332, 335]
[2220; 332, 335]
[2220; 332, 335]
[2220; 332, 335]
[1344; 162]
[2220; 209]
[2220; 209]
[1344; 043]
[1344; 049]
[1344; 049]
[1344; 055]
[2219; 067]
[1344; 006]
[2220; 006, 057]
[863; 199]
[863; 199]
[2220; 387]
[2220; 303]
[863; 134]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 158]
[1344; 158]
[2220; 158, 168]
[2220; 158, 168]
[2220; 158, 168]
[2220; 158, 168]
[2220; 158, 168]
[2220; 158, 168]
[1344; 177]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[2220; 180, 183]
[1344; 141]
Winifred's diaries are actually typed transcripts, prepared by library personnel from originals Considine loaned in 1963 and which were returned to her. They concern her activities on the Considine ranch, including her interests in horticulture and gardening. Entries during the early years are sporadic and generally conform to the growing season (March-October), but as time progressed Considine began to record her experiences with more regularity throughout the year. Some entries are quite detailed, describing Mart's activities planting, harvesting, and working with cattle. Winifred describes her neighbors and her reactions to national news events as well as giving in depth accounts of what particular garden plants she worked with, the production of her chickens, and weather observations. The typed transcription has been completely paginated, and the transcripts are divided by years with the sequential page numbers included in the folder title.
pp. 1-100
pp. 101-209
pp. 210-306
pp. 307-417
pp. 418-508
pp. 509-600
The files are divided between letters filed chronologically by date, undated and fragmented letters, short stories, and bank statements. The letters scattered as to time and content. It gives impressions of the lifestyle of the area including work, social life, and problems due to climate and isolation. The file of short stories written by Lillian Culver cover diverse topics. The most revealing story was about homestead legal problems.
In 1906 Mary Kirk enrolled in Professor Helen Brewer's American history class at the Montana College of Agricultural and Mechanical Arts. To complete the major assignment of the course work, Kirk interviewed several Bozeman, Montana pioneers to compose an essay on pioneer transportation methods that she titled "Early Travel in Montana." The piece consists of both typescript and handwritten pages, and two vintage photographs have been pasted on separate pages to illustrate the narrative. The essay itself is brief, but the annotations refer to the additional paraphrased interviews Kirk conducted from February through April, 1906 and presented as appendices to her paper. The interviewees and their subjects are: White Calfee (b. 1840), discussing freighting operations by mule train from Bozeman to Crow Agency and other locations; Walter Cooper (1843-1924) and Mrs. Mariam Skeels Cooper (1852-1925), describing Mrs. Cooper's 1865 trip to Montana Territory by steamboat and wagon, and subsequent trips with her husband by wagon hauling furs to both steamboat and railroad shipping points; Mrs. Susan Celesta Hunter (b. 1835) relating her 1864 journey to Montana along the Bozeman Trail and subsequent settlement at Hunter's Hot Springs; Henry Monforton (b. 1829) relating his experiences traveling from Missouri to Virginia City, Montana in 1863; Mrs. Sarah Jane Bessey Tracy describing her journey by a Missouri River steamboat to Fort Benton, Montana in 1869; Edward M. Davidson (1843-1916) gives an account of crossing the plains from Wisconsin to Montana by ox cart in 1864; Mrs. Catherine Boyd Waterman (b. 1835) who traveled from New York to California via the Isthmus of Panama in 1865, and then overland by stagecoach to join her husband in Virginia City, Montana; Mrs. Rosa V. Beall (1838-1930) who came to Gallatin County, Montana in 1864 from Iowa via the Bozeman Trail; Mrs. Blanch A. Sloan (1853-1917) who came to Montana in 1877 by rail from Kentucky to Corrine, Utah, and then by wagon to Gallatin County; Thomas Lewis (b. 1843) who ran a freighting outfit for the Bozeman firm of Willson and Rich during the 1870s. The interview summaries of White Calfee, Mariam Cooper, and Blanch Sloan have been signed by the interviewees.

